Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements profit before tax, adjusted earnings per recognised prospectively.
Basis of preparation share and adjusted free cash flow, which the inherent uncertainty of such estimates, Description of business are used for internal performance analysis the actual results might differ significantly Tate & Lyle PLC the Company is a and incentive compensation arrangements from the anticipated ones.
public limited company incorporated for employees.
These measures are The accounting policies and information and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
presented because they provide investors about the accounting estimates and The Companys ordinary shares are with valuable additional information about judgements made in applying these listed on the London Stock Exchange.
the performance of the business.
For the accounting policies that have the periods presented, adjusted performance The Company and its subsidiaries most significant effect on the amounts measures exclude, where relevant, together the Group provides ingredients recognised in the consolidated financial exceptional items, the amortisation of and solutions to the food, beverage and statements are set out below.
acquired intangible assets, net retirement other industries.
The Group operates benefit interest and the tax on those items.
Fair value measurement from numerous production facilities this accounting policy applies principally around the world.
Adjusted measures were previously to Available-for-sale assets: Derivatives presented on a proportionately The Groups continuing operations and hedge accounting: Financial consolidated basis whereby the Groups comprise two operating segments: instruments fair value and risk share of the income and expenses, assets Speciality Food Ingredients SFI management: and Retirement benefit and liabilities and cash flows of joint and Bulk Ingredients BI.
Segment obligations: see Notes 18, 28, 29, and 30 ventures was combined on a line-by-line information is presented in Note 5. basis with those of Tate & Lyle PLC and A number of the Groups accounting Accounting period its subsidiaries reflecting the Groups policies and disclosures require the The Groups annual financial statements previous management of its joint ventures measurement of fair value for either are drawn up to 31 March.
These financial on an integrated basis with its subsidiaries.
financial or non-financial assets and statements cover the year ended 31 March Following re-alignment of the Groups liabilities.
Examples of the former 2016 with comparative financials for the Eaststarch joint venture on 31 October include loans, interest rate swaps, and year ended 31 March 2015.
2015, adjusted performance measures commodity contracts: examples of the are now presented on an equity accounted latter include intangibles and property, Basis of accounting basis with restated comparatives.
Under plant and equipment acquired in a The consolidated financial statements the equity method of accounting, the business combination.
on pages 88 to 149 have been prepared Groups share of the after tax profits and in accordance with International Financial Fair value is the amount of money, or losses of joint ventures are shown as one Reporting Standards IFRS and related other consideration, expected to be line of the consolidated income statement, interpretations as adopted for use in the exchanged for an asset or a liability its share of their net assets are shown as European Union and those parts of the in an arms length transaction.
When one line of the consolidated statement of Companies Act 2006 that are applicable measuring fair value, the Group takes into financial position and the consolidated to companies reporting under IFRS.
account the characteristics of the asset or statement of cash flows reflects cash liability and uses observable market data, The directors are satisfied that the flows between the Group and the joint such as prices quoted on a recognised Group has adequate resources to ventures investments in and dividends exchange, to the greatest extent possible.
continue to operate for a period not less received from joint ventures within Where such data is not available, the than 12 months from the date of approval cash flows from investing activities.
Group has an established framework in of the financial statements and that there Adjusted performance measures reported place that deals with setting, monitoring are no material uncertainties around their by the Group are not defined terms under and evaluating non-observable inputs, assessment.
Accordingly, the directors IFRS and may therefore not be comparable including the respective classification continue to adopt the going concern basis with similarly-titled measures reported by of the fair value measurements.
Such unobservable inputs are based The Groups principal accounting policies on managements own assessment of Reconciliations of the adjusted are set out in Note 2 and Note 3 and have market and other conditions currently performance measures to the most been consistently applied throughout prevailing or expected to prevail.
directly comparable IFRS measures the year.
Fair value measurements are categorised Functional and presentation currency into three different levels based on the The consolidated financial statements 2.
Principal accounting degree to which the inputs used to arrive are presented in pounds sterling, which at the fair value of the assets and liabilities policies requiring significant is also the Companys functional currency.
are observable and the significance of the All amounts are rounded to the nearest judgements and estimates inputs to the fair value measurement in its million, unless otherwise indicated.
entirety, as follows: In preparing these consolidated financial Accounting standards adopted during statements, management has made Level 1 inputs are quoted prices the year judgements and used estimates and unadjusted in active markets for In the current year, the Group has adopted assumptions in establishing the reported identical assets or liabilities that the the Defined Benefit Plans: Employee amounts of assets, liabilities, income and entity can assess at the measurement Contributions Amendments to IAS 19, expense under the Groups accounting date.
The prices of equity shares or as well as the Annual Improvements to policies.
Judgements are based on the bonds quoted on the London Stock IFRS 2010-12 and 2011-13 Cycles.
These best evidence available to management.
Exchange are examples of Level 1 inputs amendments have had no material effect Estimates are based on factors including Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than on the Groups financial statements.
historical experience and expectations of quoted prices included in Level 1, that future events, corroborated with external are observable either directly or Use of adjusted measures information where possible.
Most interest rate swaps fall The Group also presents adjusted and estimates and their underlying in this category as their prices are performance measures, including assumptions are reviewed and updated on referenced to a published rate curve, but adjusted operating profit, adjusted an ongoing basis, with any revisions being it is not price specific to the swap itself Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 93 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The production of finished goods from Current tax receivable assets and 2.
Principal accounting corn also results in the production of payable liabilities are offset only when policies requiring significant three co-products corn gluten feed, corn there is a legal right to settle them net and gluten meal, and corn oil.
The price risk the entity intends to do so.
This is generally judgements and estimates associated with these co-products cannot true when the taxes are levied by the same continued readily be hedged as there are no actively tax authority.
traded markets for these commodities.
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs.
Because of the differences between Whilst the Group actively manages its The Group generally classifies assets accounting and taxable profits and losses overall co-product positions in the US, the or liabilities as Level 3 when their fair reported in each period, temporary Group can hold either a net long or short value is determined using unobservable differences arise on the amount certain position for each co-product based on the inputs that individually, or when assets and liabilities are carried at for volume of co-products made, bought or aggregated with other unobservable accounting purposes and their respective short sold and forward sold at any point in inputs, represent more than 10% of the tax values.
Deferred tax is the amount of time.
These positions are measured at fair fair value of the observable inputs of the tax payable or recoverable on these value at each reporting date, with gains assets or liabilities.
This would include temporary differences.
and losses recognised in the income expected future cash flows from statement.
Deferred tax liabilities arise where the budgets and forecasts the entity has carrying amount of an asset is higher than made.
Certain elements of the Groups Management exercises significant the tax value more tax deduction has been commodity contract portfolio also fall judgement in deriving these fair values, taken.
This can happen where the Group into this category, as their values include which involves estimating the price at invests in capital assets, as governments significant management-derived which the Group will purchase or sell often encourage investment by allowing assumptions.
these co-product positions in the tax depreciation to be recognised faster future.
These inputs are classified as Judgements and estimates in respect of than accounting depreciation.
This reduces unobservable, and are derived by in-house corn and co-product positions the tax value of the asset relative to its experts, with reference to sources such as: Corn and co-product inventories held in accounting carrying amount.
Deferred tax the expected supply and demand for corn the US business are measured at net liabilities are generally provided on all and substitute products, expectations realisable value since they are considered taxable temporary differences.
The of weather conditions, and historical to be agricultural produce after harvest.
periods over which such temporary published co-product pricing levels over a The Group uses financial instruments differences reverse will vary depending on period of up to three months from the mainly forward contracts to manage the life of the related asset or liability.
price risk within its US business, by Deferred tax assets arise where the hedging the contracted amount of corn Whilst it is possible to model the sensitivity carrying amount of an asset is lower than when either business division Bulk of profit to changes in any one of the key the tax value less tax benefit has been Ingredients or Speciality Food Ingredients assumptions, it is important to note that, taken.
This can happen where the Group enters into a finished good sales contract.
due to the complexity and interdependence has trading losses, which cannot be of related assumptions, the overall net The elements of the Groups US net corn offset in the current period but can be impact in reality is likely to be different.
position are accounted for as follows: carried forward.
Deferred tax assets The accounting for corn and co-product are recognised only where the Group Contracts for the physical purchase positions can create significant volatility in considers it probable that it will be able to of corn in respect of corresponding the Groups income statement, although use such losses by offsetting them against committed sales of finished goods the use of such contracts is critical to the future taxable profits.
are marked to market in accordance business as it effectively limits the Groups with IAS 39 with any gains or losses Taxable temporary differences can exposure to fluctuating market prices.
recognised in the income statement also arise on investments in foreign Corn inventories are measured at net Full details of the valuation technique are subsidiaries and associates, and interests realisable value in accordance with included in Note 29. in joint ventures.
Where the Group is able IAS 2.3, with any gains or losses to control the reversal of these differences Taxation recognised in the income statement and it is probable that these will not this accounting policy principally applies Financial instruments futures and reverse in the foreseeable future, then to Income taxes see Note 12 options are carried at fair value with any no deferred tax is provided.
gains or losses recognised immediately Taxable profit differs from accounting Deferred tax is calculated using the in the income statement.
profit because it excludes certain items of enacted or substantively enacted rates income and expense that are recognised in Although the Group manages corn price that are expected to apply when the asset the financial statements but are treated risk by entering into offsetting back-tois realised or the liability is settled.
back corn positions, there is still Similarly to current taxes, deferred tax underlying price risk on the basis cost that Current tax is the amount of tax expected assets and liabilities are offset only when must be paid to get delivery of the corn to be payable or receivable on the taxable there is a legal right to settle them net and to its plants.
This basis is the difference profit or loss for the current period.
the entity intends to do so.
This normally in price between that at which a farmer This amount is then amended for any requires both assets and liabilities to have will sell and the price on the Chicago adjustments in respect of prior periods.
arisen in the same country.
Mercantile Exchange CME, and is Current tax is calculated using tax rates typically driven by local supply, demand that have been written into law enacted and logistics factors, requiring estimation or irrevocably announced committed by for valuation purposes.
the respective government substantively enacted at the period-end date.
94 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The three key uncertainties impacting A deficit or surplus is recognised on each 2.
Principal accounting taxation arise from potential changes to plan, representing the difference between policies requiring significant legislation.
Firstly, the OECDs Base the present value of the benefit obligation Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS project and the fair value of the plan assets.
judgements and estimates is one of the most significant multilateral Where a plan is in surplus, the surplus continued initiatives in recent years for modifying recognised is limited to the present value international tax rules.
As these of any amounts that the Group expects to Income tax expense reported in the recommendations are introduced into recover by way of refunds or a reduction in financial statements comprises current local tax legislation over the coming years, future contributions.
tax as well as the effects of changes in this may impact the Groups effective tax deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The costs of the defined benefit plan that rate.
Secondly, the UK government Tax expense credits are generally are recognised in the income statement announced in March 2016 draft changes to recognised in the same place as the items include the current service cost, any past UK tax legislation.
Whilst this legislation to which they relate.
For example, the service cost and the interest on the net has yet to be finalised, these changes could tax associated with a gain on disposal is deficit or surplus.
Gains or losses on impact our ability to utilise brought recognised in the income statement, curtailments or settlements of the plans forward losses in the UK in the future.
in line with the gain on disposal.
Equally, are recognised in the income statement in Lastly, the new US Related Party Debt the tax associated with pension obligation the period in which the curtailment or Regulations issued in draft in early April actuarial gains and losses is recognised in settlement occurs.
Plan administration 2016 may, if finalised, impact the Groups other comprehensive income, in line with costs incurred by the Group are also financing of its US operations and the the actuarial gains and losses.
recognised in the income statement.
Judgements and estimates Current service cost represents the The Groups operating model involves The Group operates in a large number of increase in the present value of the benefit significant volumes of cross-border supply countries around the world.
Uncertainties obligation due to benefits accrued during of goods into numerous end markets, exist in relation to the interpretation the period, less employee contributions.
and the provision of services from one of complex tax legislation, changes in Past service cost represents the change in jurisdiction to another.
There is a risk that tax laws, and the amount and timing the present value of the benefit obligation different tax authorities could seek to of future taxable income.
In some that arises from benefit changes that are assess higher profits or lower costs jurisdictions agreeing tax liabilities with applied retrospectively to benefits accrued to activities being undertaken in their local tax authorities can take several in previous years.
Any past service cost is jurisdiction, potentially leading to higher years.
This could necessitate future recognised in full in the period in which the total tax payable by the Group.
adjustments to taxable income and benefit changes are made.
The amount provided at 31 March 2016 in Interest on the net deficit or surplus is respect of uncertain tax positions totalled At the period-end date, tax liabilities and calculated by applying the discount rate 31 million 2015 29 million.
Based on assets are based on managements best that is used in measuring the present all substantively enacted legislation, the judgements around the application of value of the benefit obligation to the deficit Group believes that no reasonably possible the tax regulations and managements or surplus.
change in assumptions would lead to a estimate of the future amounts that material change in this number.
Remeasurements of the deficit or surplus will be settled.
Management considers are recognised in other comprehensive tax exposures individually, and arrives Retirement benefit plans income.
Remeasurements comprise at judgements with support from this accounting policy principally applies differences between the actual return experienced tax professionals and to retirement benefit obligations see on plan assets less asset management external advisors.
There is, however, Note 30 expenses and the interest on the plan a risk that the Groups judgements are The Group operates both defined assets and actuarial gains and losses.
challenged by the tax authorities, resulting contribution and defined benefit pension Actuarial gains and losses represent in a different tax payable or recoverable plans principally in the UK and the US the effect of changes in the actuarial from the amounts that have been provided.
and unfunded retirement medical plans assumptions made in measuring the As described in Note 12, the Group in the US.
present value of the benefit obligation has internal funding structures that and experience differences between a Defined benefit plans favourably affect the amount of tax those assumptions and actual outcomes.
For accounting purposes a valuation payable.
In managements view, these Actuarial gains and losses are recognised of each of the defined benefit plans is structures are compliant with the in full in the period in which they occur.
carried out annually at 31 March using relevant tax regulations.
Benefit b Defined contribution plans Deferred tax assets are recognised for obligations are measured using the Contributions made by the Group to unused tax losses only to the extent that projected unit credit method and are defined contribution pension schemes are it is probable that taxable profit will be discounted using the market yields on recognised in the income statement in the available against which the losses can high quality corporate bonds denominated period in which they fall due.
Management judgement is in the same currency as, and of similar required to determine the amount of duration to, the benefit obligations.
deferred tax that should be recognised, Plan assets are measured at their fair dependent on the anticipated timing and value at the period-end date.
Where a plan quantum of future taxable profit.
holds a qualifying insurance policy, the fair value of the policy is deemed to be equivalent to the present value of the related benefit obligations.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 95 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued An asset is impaired to the extent that its Judgements and estimates 2.
Principal accounting carrying amount exceeds its recoverable Estimated future cash flows for policies requiring significant amount.
An assets recoverable amount impairment calculations are based on represents the higher of the benefit which managements expectations of future judgements and estimates the entity expects to derive from the asset volumes and margins based on plans and continued over its life, discounted to present value best estimates of the productivity of the value in use and the net price for which assets in their current condition.
Future Judgements and estimates the entity can sell the asset in the open cash flows therefore exclude benefits from At 31 March 2016, the present value of market fair value less costs of disposal.
major expansion projects requiring future the benefit obligations on the plans was The discount rate used for the value in use capital expenditure where that expenditure 1,634million 2015 1,761million, calculation is a pre-tax rate that reflects has not been approved and committed on including 66 million 2015 69million the risks specific to the asset or groups of the dates the assets are tested.
in respect of the unfunded medical plans.
The present value of the benefit obligations Future cash flows are discounted using is based on actuarial estimates of the For the purpose of impairment testing, a discount rate appropriate for the cash future benefits that will be payable to the assets are grouped together into the generating unit being tested.
The discount members of the plans.
As such, the benefit smallest group of assets which has cash rate is impacted by estimates of interest obligations are based on a number of inflows that are largely independent of the rates, equity returns and market and assumptions, changes to which could have cash inflows from other assets or groups country-related risks.
The Groups a material impact on the reported amounts.
This could also be a single asset.
weighted average cost of capital, which is Goodwill does not generate cash inflows used as the initial reference point for the The present value of the benefit obligations independently and is, therefore, tested for discount rate before any asset specific is most sensitive to the discount rate impairment at the level of the Cash adjustments are made, is reviewed on applied to the benefit obligations, assumed Generating Unit CGU or group of CGUs a regular basis.
If the cash flow or discount life expectancies, and expected future to which it is allocated.
Note 19 shows the rate assumptions were to change because price inflation rates.
Whilst the Group allocation of goodwill to CGUs for of market conditions, the level of establishes the assumptions on a impairment testing purposes.
impairment could be different and could consistent basis reflecting advice from result in the asset impairment being qualified actuaries, based on published When goodwill is tested for impairment increased or reversed, in part or in full, indices and other actuarial data, and the carrying amount of the CGU or at a future date.
management must apply judgement group of CGUs to which it is allocated in selecting the most appropriate value exceeds its recoverable amount, the Provisions and contingent liabilities from within an acceptable range.
impairment is allocated first to reduce see Note 32 the carrying amount of the goodwill and Changes in the assumptions used in A provision is a liability of uncertain timing then pro-rata to the other non-financial determining the present value of the or amount that is recognised when: 1 the assets belonging to the CGU or group of benefit obligations will have an impact Group has a present obligation legal or CGUs on the basis of their respective on the Groups income statement through constructive as a result of a past event: carrying amounts.
their effect on the service cost and the 2 it is more likely than not that a payment interest on the net deficit or surplus in the Impairment losses are recognised in the will be required to settle the obligation: plans.
However, most of the impact of such income statement.
Impairment losses and 3 the amount can be reliably estimated.
changes, together with fluctuations in the recognised in previous periods for assets Where a payment is not probable, or actual return on the plan assets, will be other than goodwill are reversed if there the amount of the obligation cannot be reflected in other comprehensive income.
has been a change in the estimates used to measured with sufficient certainty, determine the assets recoverable amount.
Impairment of non-financial assets a contingent liability is disclosed.
Such reversals are limited to the carrying this accounting policy principally applies amount of the asset had no impairment Contingent liabilities are also disclosed to Goodwill and other intangibles: and been recognised in previous periods.
if a possible obligation arises from past Property, plant and equipment see Notes Impairment losses recognised in respect events, but its existence will be confirmed 19 and 20 of goodwill cannot be reversed.
only by the occurrence or non-occurrence Property, plant and equipment and of uncertain future events.
Asset impairments have the potential to intangible assets are reviewed for significantly impact operating profit.
In Provisions are determined by discounting impairment whenever any events or order to determine whether impairments the expected future payments using a changes in circumstances indicate are required, the Group estimates the pre-tax discount rate that reflects current that their carrying amounts may recoverable amount of the asset.
This market assessments of the time value of not be recoverable.
calculation is usually based on projecting money and, where appropriate, the risks If such an indication exists, then the future cash flows over a five-year period specific to the liability.
The unwinding of recoverable amount of the asset is and using a terminal value to incorporate any discount is recognised in the income estimated.
In addition, goodwill is expectations of growth thereafter.
The tested for impairment annually.
A discount factor is applied to obtain a impact of any discounting is not material present value value in use.
value less costs of disposal of an asset may be used where this results in an amount in excess of value in use.
96 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements control over a business.
They are deconsolidated from the 2.
Principal accounting combinations are accounted for using the date that control ceases.
policies requiring significant acquisition method, the key elements of A non-controlling interest in a subsidiary which are below.
judgements and estimates represents the share of the net assets of Identifiable assets and liabilities of the the subsidiary that is attributable to the continued acquired business are generally measured equity interest in the subsidiary that is not Provision is made for restructuring at their fair value at the acquisition date.
costs when a detailed formal plan for the Retirement benefit obligations and The Groups income and expenses, assets restructuring has been determined and deferred tax assets and liabilities are and liabilities and cash flows include those the plan has been communicated to those measured in accordance with the Groups of each of its subsidiaries from the date on affected by it.
Gains from the expected accounting policies.
which the Company obtains control until disposal of assets are not taken into Consideration transferred represents the such time as control is lost.
Inter-company account in measuring restructuring sum of the fair values at the acquisition transactions, balances and unrealised provisions.
Future operating losses are date of the assets given, liabilities incurred gains or losses on transactions between not provided for.
or assumed and equity instruments issued group companies are eliminated.
Provisions are recognised for onerous by the Group in exchange for control over c Equity accounted investments contracts to the extent that the benefits the acquired business.
Acquisition-related An associate is an entity over which the expected to be derived from a contract costs are charged to the income statement Group has significant influence.
Significant are lower than the unavoidable cost to the in the period in which they are incurred.
influence is the power to participate in Group of meeting its obligations under the Any non-controlling interest in the financial and operating policy decisions but contract.
Before establishing the amount acquired business is measured either not to control or jointly control them.
of the provision, any impairment losses at fair value or at the non-controlling on assets associated with the contract A joint venture is an entity or a contractual interests proportionate share of the are recognised.
arrangement under which the Group identifiable assets and liabilities of and other parties undertake activities that Judgements and estimates the business.
are subject to joint control, whereby The Group is subject to claims and Put options written by the Group over the Group has rights to the net assets litigation generally arising in the ordinary non-controlling interests are initially of the arrangement rather than to the course of its business, some of which are recognised as a liability measured at the arrangements assets or obligations for substantial amounts.
All such actions present value of the exercise price with a for its liabilities.
are strenuously defended but provision corresponding charge directly to equity.
is made for liabilities that are considered Interests in associates and joint ventures Subsequently, the liability is measured likely to arise on the basis of current together Equity accounted investments at the present value of the expected information and legal advice and after are accounted for under the equity method.
redemption amount and re-measured taking into account the Groups insurance They are initially recognised at cost, which in accordance with IAS 39 at amortised arrangements.
Whilst there is always includes transaction costs.
Subsequently, cost, with changes recognised in the uncertainty as to the outcome of any claim the Groups share of the profit or loss, income statement.
or litigation, it is not expected that claims other comprehensive income and net and litigation existing at 31 March 2016 Goodwill arising in a business combination assets are shown on one line of the will have a material adverse effect on the represents the excess of the sum of the relevant primary financial statements, Groups financial position.
consideration transferred, the amount until the date on which significant influence of any non-controlling interest in the or joint control ceases.
At 31 March 2016, provisions included acquired business and, where a business amounts for insurance claims payable by Losses of an equity accounted investment combination is achieved in stages, the fair the Groups reinsurance company, legal in excess of the Groups interest in the value at the acquisition date of the Groups matters, employee termination and other entity are not recognised, except to the previously held equity interest, over the restructuring costs.
These have been extent that the Group has incurred net total of the identifiable assets and based on managements judgement as to obligations or made payments on behalf liabilities of the acquired business at the whether any obligation, legal or otherwise, of the investment.
Any re-measurement existed at the balance sheet date and if so gain or loss on the previously held equity Unrealised profits or losses on managements estimate of the likelihood, interest is recognised in the income transactions between the Group and magnitude and timing of future payments statement.
Any shortfall, or negative its equity accounted investments are related to the obligation.
goodwill, is recognised immediately eliminated to the extent of the Groups as a gain in the income statement.
Other principal accounting in full where they represent a reduction in Changes in the Groups ownership interest policies the net realisable value of a current asset in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of or an impairment loss.
The consolidated financial statements control are accounted for within equity.
have been prepared under the historical Any gain or loss upon loss of control is cost convention, modified in respect of the recognised in the income statement.
revaluation to fair value of available-forb Subsidiaries sale financial assets, derivative financial Subsidiaries are all entities including instruments, assets classified as held structured entities over which the Group for sale, assets held by defined benefit has control.
The Group controls an entity pension plans and intangible and tangible when the Group is exposed to, or has rights assets acquired in a business combination.
to, variable returns from its involvement Basis of consolidation with the entity and has the ability to affect a Business combinations those returns through its power over the A business combination is a transaction or entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from other event in which the Group obtains the date on which the Group obtains Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 97 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Foreign currency translation b Interest income 3.
Other principal accounting this accounting policy applies to Interest income is recognised on a timepolicies continued all transactions and net assets in proportion basis using the effective foreign currencies interest rate method.
Discontinued operations see Note 8 At entity level, transactions in foreign c Dividend income currencies are translated into the entitys Dividend income is recognised when the An operation is classified as discontinued if functional currency at the exchange right to receive payment is established.
it is a component of the Group that: i has rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
been disposed of, or meets the criteria to Exceptional items Monetary assets and liabilities be classified as held for sale: and ii this accounting policy principally relates denominated in foreign currencies are represents a separate major line of to Note 7 translated at the exchange rate ruling at business or geographic area of operations: the period-end date.
Currency translation Exceptional items comprise items of and iii will be disposed of as part of a differences arising at entity level are income and expense, including tax items, single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a recognised in the income statement.
that are material in amount, relate to separate major line of business or events which are unlikely to recur, are geographic area of operations.
The consolidated financial statements outside the normal course of business are presented in pounds sterling.
The results, assets and liabilities and cash and therefore merit separate disclosure On consolidation, the results of foreign flows of discontinued operations are in order to provide a better understanding operations are translated into pounds presented separately from those of of the Groups underlying financial sterling at the average rate of exchange for continuing operations.
Examples of events that give the period and their assets and liabilities rise to the disclosure of material items of Discontinued operations are comprised are translated into pounds sterling at the income and expense as exceptional items of the following activities: exchange rate ruling at the period-end include, but are not limited to, impairment date.
Currency translation differences Eaststarch Morocco events, significant business arising on consolidation are recognised transformation activities, disposals of On the 31 October 2015, the Group in other comprehensive income and taken operations or significant individual assets, completed the re-alignment of its to the currency translation reserve.
litigation claims by or against the Group Eaststarch joint venture leading to the Goodwill and fair value adjustments and restructuring of components of the disposal of the majority of the Groups arising on the acquisition of a foreign Groups operations.
In a operation are treated as assets and related agreement, the Group also agreed All material amounts relating to liabilities of the foreign operation and to sell its corn wet mill in Casablanca, exceptional items in the Groups financial translated accordingly.
Morocco to Archer Daniels Midland statements are classified on a consistent Company Inc. ADM and the assets and When a foreign operation is sold, the basis across accounting periods.
liabilities to be disposed of as part of the gain or loss on disposal recognised in Goodwill and other intangible assets transaction were classified as held for the income statement is determined see Note 19 sale at 31 March 2016. after taking into account the recycling of cumulative currency translation a Goodwill Comparative financial information for differences arising on consolidation Goodwill arising in a business combination the year ended 31 March 2015 has been of the operation subsequent to the is recognised as an intangible asset and is restated to reflect the disclosure of the adoption of IFRS.
allocated to the Cash Generating Unit financial performance of these operations CGU or group of CGUs that is expected as discontinued operations.
There is no In the cash flow statement, the cash flows to benefit from the synergies of the overall effect on the Groups prior year of foreign operations are translated into business combination.
Goodwill is not profit for the period from total operations.
pounds sterling at the average exchange amortised but is tested for impairment rate for the period.
ASR and European Starch Pensions annually.
settlements Revenue recognition Goodwill is carried at cost less any this accounting policy relates to Notes 5 The Group announced on 29 September recognised impairment losses.
and 6 2015 that the Commercial Court in London b Intangible assets other than goodwill had handed down a decision in a case a Sales of goods and services Intangible assets other than goodwill are brought by American Sugar Refining, Inc. Revenue comprises the fair value of stated at cost less accumulated ASR in which it made a number of claims consideration receivable in the ordinary amortisation and any recognised in relation to its acquisition of the Groups course of business, net of value added impairment losses.
The and sales taxes, rebates and discounts and European Sugars business formed part of after eliminating sales within the Group.
c Acquired in business combinations the Groups discontinued Sugars segment, Sales are recognised at the point or points An intangible resource acquired in a and accordingly the costs associated with at which the Group has performed its business combination is recognised as an those claims are recognised within obligations in connection with the intangible asset at its fair value at the date discontinued operations.
contractual terms of the sales agreement, of acquisition, if it is separable from the primarily at the point of delivering to the acquired business or arises from During the year, the Group made a customer, and in exchange obtains the contractual or legal rights.
Acquired settlement payment of 2 million to right to consideration.
Discounts mainly intangible assets, for example, patents and transfer all remaining obligations under comprise volume driven rebates.
customer relationships, are amortised on a legacy pension scheme related to the The Group accrues for discounts against a straight-line basis over the periods of Groups discontinued European Starch agreed customer terms reflecting latest their expected benefit to the Group, which business, which was disposed of in the expectations of amounts likely to fall range from three to 15 years.
due under the terms of the customer contract, subsequently adjusted for actual performance.
98 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Residual values and useful lives are Provisions are made for any slow moving, 3.
Other principal accounting reviewed at each period-end date and obsolete or defective inventories.
policies continued adjusted as appropriate, with any resulting Financial instruments changes recognised in the income d Other intangibles see Notes 16, 17, 18, 24, 25, 28 and 29 statement prospectively.
Other intangible assets mainly comprise a Trade receivables certain capitalised costs relating to product Gains and losses on disposals are Trade receivables are initially recognised development, marketing, computer determined by comparing the disposal at fair value, which is generally the same software and the global IS IT system.
proceeds with the carrying amount and as the invoiced amount, and subsequently are included in the income statement.
Costs incurred on the development, design measured at amortised cost, or their and testing of new or improved products Leased assets recoverable amount.
Trade receivables are capitalised only when the technical and see Notes 20, 25, 29 and 33 are predominantly short-term and the commercial feasibility of the product has effects of time-value of money are not Leases of property, plant and equipment been proven and prior to the product going considered material.
where the Group assumes substantially into full production.
Research and other all the risks and rewards of ownership are Where there is objective evidence that the development expenditures are charged to classified as finance leases.
Assets held Group will not be able to collect all the income statement in the period in under finance leases are capitalised at the amounts due according to the original which they are incurred.
lower of the fair value of the leased asset terms of the receivable, the receivable Other intangible assets are amortised on a and the present value of the minimum is considered to be impaired.
Significant straight-line basis over the periods of their lease payments.
The corresponding lease financial difficulties of the debtor, expected benefit to the Group, which are in commitments, net of finance charges, are probability that the debtor will enter the range of three to ten years.
Leasing payments bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, costs in respect of the global IS IT system are analysed between capital and interest and default or delinquency in payments are being amortised over seven years.
components so that the interest element are considered to be objective evidence of is charged to the income statement over impairment.
The amount of the impairment, Property, plant and equipment the period of the lease at a constant rate and related provision, is the difference see Note 20 of interest.
between the receivables original value and Land and buildings mainly comprise the present value of the estimated future Depreciation on assets held under finance manufacturing sites and administrative cash flows, discounted at the original leases is charged to the income statement, facilities.
Plant and machinery mainly effective interest rate.
The impairment on a straight-line basis over the shorter of comprise equipment used in the is recognised in the income statement the lease term and its useful life.
immediately, and the provision is netted Assets under the course of construction All other leases are treated as operating against the value of the receivable.
comprise property, plant and equipment leases.
The total amount payable under When a trade receivable is deemed which is in the process of being completed the operating lease, including lease uncollectable, it is written off against and not ready for use.
incentives and guaranteed lease the related provision.
increases, is spread over the lease period Property, plant and equipment is stated at Subsequent recoveries of amounts on a straight-line basis.
Where termination historical cost less accumulated previously written off are credited against or extension options are available to the depreciation and impairment.
Historical operating expenses in the income Group, management considers the cost includes expenditure that is directly statement in the period in which they likelihood of exercising these options in attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the b Trade payables assets carrying amount or recognised as a Inventories Trade payables are predominantly separate asset, as appropriate, only when see Note 15 short-term and are initially recognised at it is probable that future economic benefits Corn and co-product inventories held in fair value, which is generally the invoice associated with the expenditure will flow to the US business are measured at net amount.
The effects of time-value of the Group and the cost of the item can be realisable value since they are considered money are not considered material.
All repairs and to be agricultural produce after harvest, in maintenance expenditures are charged to c Cash and cash equivalents accordance with IAS 2.3.
Gains and losses the income statement during the period in Cash and cash equivalents include cash in are recognised in the income statement.
hand, deposits held at call with banks and All other inventories are carried at the other short-term highly liquid investments Depreciation is calculated using the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost with original maturities of three months or straight-line method to allocate the cost comprises direct materials and, where less and, for the purposes of the cash flow of each asset to its residual value over its applicable, direct labour costs and those statement only, bank overdrafts where the useful economic life as follows: overheads that have been incurred in legal right of offset exists.
Freehold land No depreciation bringing the inventories to their present Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years location and condition and is calculated Leasehold property Period of the lease using the first in first out or weighted Plant and machinery 3 to 28 years average methods, appropriate to the materials and production processes involved.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 99 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued f Derivative financial instruments A hedging relationship principally consists 3.
Other principal accounting The Group uses derivative financial of two items: the hedged item and the policies continued instruments to reduce its exposure to hedging instrument.
The hedged item is commodity price, currency exchange rate the transaction or balance that exposes d Available-for-sale financial assets and interest rate movements.
The Group the Group to a risk that can be identified Equity instruments held by the Group does not hold or issue derivatives for and the hedging instrument is the are generally available-for-sale and are speculative purposes.
transaction or balance that is used to carried at fair value, with movements manage the risk.
In the above example, in fair value recognised in other All derivative financial instruments held the contract to sell goods at a future date comprehensive income.
The Group does by the Group are recognised as assets or in a foreign currency gives rise to foreign not trade with equity instruments and liabilities measured at their fair values at currency transaction exposure for the does not manage them on a fair value the period-end date.
As exchange rates change, the basis.
Where fair value cannot be reliably Hedge accounting below, unless and eventual proceeds from the future sale measured, the assets are carried at cost.
to the extent that a derivative is in a when expressed in the entitys functional designated and effective cash flow or Cumulative fair value gains or losses on currency will also change, creating risk.
net investment hedging relationship, an asset are recycled through the income This is the hedged item.
In this example, fair value gains and losses on derivatives statement when the asset is disposed or the foreign currency exchange contract are recognised in the income statement.
A significant or prolonged the Group takes out locks in a known decline in the fair value of a security below Derivative financial instruments that are functional currency value for its foreign its cost is considered as an indicator that not in a designated hedging relationship currency cash receipt and therefore the securities are impaired.
Impairments are classified as held for trading.
eliminates the volatility in cash flows on are recognised in the income statement.
The forward currency exchange g Embedded derivatives Impairment losses recognised in profit or contract is the hedging instrument.
Some contracts may include features loss for an investment in an available-forthat are similar to and expose the Group to For a hedging relationship to qualify for sale equity instrument are not reversed the same risks as standalone derivatives.
hedge accounting, it must be documented through profit or loss.
However, if the fair Where such an embedded derivative is at inception together with the Groups risk value of an impaired available-for-sale not closely related to the host contract management objective and strategy for debt security subsequently increases and and where the host contract itself is initiating the hedge.
The hedge must the increase can be related objectively to not already recognised at fair value, the both be expected to be highly effective an event occurring after the impairment embedded derivative is separated from in offsetting the changes in cash flows or loss was recognised, then the impairment the host contract and accounted as fair value attributed to the hedged risk and is reversed through profit or loss.
The hedge actually be highly effective in doing so.
This Other financial assets represent cash held accounting principles described below relationship is demonstrated by matching in an escrow account and are carried at equally apply to embedded derivatives.
the terms of hedging instruments very fair value.
closely to the hedged items, or where the h Offsetting financial instruments Group uses more complex arrangements, e Borrowings Financial assets and financial liabilities are by the use of statistical methods that Borrowings are initially measured at fair offset and the net amount presented in the show the relationship between the value, net of transaction costs incurred, statement of financial position only where hedging pairs.
which is generally the amount of proceeds there is a legally enforceable right to offset received.
Borrowings are subsequently them and the Group intends to either settle There are three hedging models that measured at amortised cost using the them on a net basis or realise the asset apply to different types of transactions.
effective interest rate method, whereby and settle the liability simultaneously.
a Cash flow hedges the net proceeds are gradually increased Hedge accounting Hedging relationships are classified as to the amount that will be ultimately see Notes 28 and 29 cash flow hedges where the hedging settled using a constant rate of interest.
instrument hedges exposure to variability This constant rate of return is used to As described in Note 29, the Group uses in cash flows that are attributable either calculate the amount recognised as derivatives to mitigate risk.
In many to a particular risk associated with a interest expense in the income statement.
cases, the changes in the fair value of recognised asset or liability such as the derivatives are recognised before As explained under Hedge accounting interest payments on variable rate debt, a the hedged risk affects the Group income see below, the carrying amount of a highly probable forecast transaction such statement.
For example, when the Group borrowing may be adjusted where it is as commodity purchases or the foreign takes out a forward foreign currency a hedged liability in a fair value hedge.
currency risk in a firm commitment such contract to fix the exchange rate on as the purchase of an item of equipment.
Borrowings are classified as current committed or highly probable future sales liabilities unless the Group has an in a foreign currency, changes in the fair unconditional right to defer settlement value of the forward foreign exchange of the liability for at least 12 months after contract will be recognised in the income the period-end date.
statement immediately, whereas the future sale will not affect the income Dividends on preference shares that are statement until it is made.
This creates classified as a liability are recognised in a mismatch in the timing of recognition the income statement as interest expense.
for compensating gains and losses.
Hedge accounting seeks to mitigate this mismatch by applying specific accounting rules, if strict criteria are met, to the items that create the exposure to risk and the items used to manage that risk.
100 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Where the hedging relationship is Assets that are classified as held for sale 3.
Other principal accounting classified as a fair value hedge, the are measured at the lower of their carrying policies continued carrying amount of the hedged asset or amount when they were classified as held liability is adjusted by the change in its for sale and their fair value less costs to Where a hedging relationship is classified fair value attributable to the hedged risk sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal as a cash flow hedge, to the extent that the only and the resulting gain or loss is group is allocated first to goodwill hedge is effective, changes in the fair value recognised in the income statement and then, on a pro-rata basis, to the of the hedging instrument are recognised where, to the extent that the hedge is remaining assets and liabilities other in other comprehensive income rather effective, it offsets the fair value gain than inventories, financial instruments, than in the income statement.
When the or loss on the hedging instrument.
investment property, employee benefits hedged item affects the income statement, and deferred tax assets, which continue the cumulative fair value gain or loss Share-based payments to be measured in accordance with the recognised in other comprehensive see Note 31 relevant Group accounting policies.
income is transferred to the income The Company operates share-based statement.
When a hedged firm Impairment on the initial recognition of compensation plans under which it commitment results in the recognition held for sale assets, and gains or losses grants awards over its ordinary shares of a non-current asset, the initial carrying on subsequent remeasurement, are to its own employees and to those of its amount of the asset is adjusted for the recognised in the income statement.
All of the awards granted cumulative fair value gain or loss.
under the existing plans are classified Once classified as held for sale, property, If the hedging instrument expires or is as equity-settled awards.
The Group plant and equipment and intangible assets sold, or if the hedging relationship no recognises a compensation expense are no longer depreciated or amortised.
longer meets the conditions for hedge that is based on the fair value of the Equity accounted investments are no accounting, the cumulative fair value awards measured at the grant date using longer equity accounted when classified gain or loss remains in equity until the the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
forecast transaction is recognised in the Fair value is not subsequently remeasured Accounting standards issued but not income statement.
If a hedged forecast unless relevant conditions attaching to yet adopted transaction is no longer expected to the award are modified.
The following new standards, new occur, the cumulative fair value gain or Fair value reflects any market interpretations and amendments to loss is immediately transferred to the performance conditions and all nonstandards and interpretations have been income statement.
Adjustments are made issued and are potentially relevant to the b Net investment hedges to the compensation expense to reflect Group but are not effective for the financial A net investment hedge is the hedge of actual and expected forfeitures due to year beginning 1 April 2015 and have not the currency exposure on the retranslation failure to satisfy service conditions or been adopted early: of the Groups net investment in a non-market performance conditions.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments foreign operation.
The resulting compensation expense is effective 1January 2018 Net investment hedges are accounted for recognised in the income statement on a IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with similarly to cash flow hedges.
Changes in straight-line basis over the vesting period Customers effective 1January 2018 the fair value of the hedging instrument and a corresponding credit is recognised IFRS 16 Leases effective 1January 2019 are, to the extent that the hedge is in equity.
In the event of the cancellation Various minor improvements to effective, recognised in other of an award, whether by the Group or a accounting standards arising from comprehensive income.
participating employee, the compensation the IASBs 2012-2014 review cycle.
expense that would have been recognised In the event that the foreign operation is While the directors do not expect that the over the remainder of the vesting period disposed of, the cumulative fair value gain adoption of the standards listed above will is recognised immediately in the or loss recognised in other comprehensive have a material impact on the financial income statement.
income is transferred to the income statements of the Group in future periods, statement where it is included in the gain Assets held for sale the Group has not yet undertaken a or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
see Note 8 detailed impact assessment of their effect.
c Fair value hedges An asset or group of assets is classified Hedging relationships are classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will as fair value hedges where the hedging be principally recovered through a sale instrument hedges the exposure to transaction rather than through continuing changes in the fair value of a recognised use in the business and the following asset or liability that is attributable to conditions are met: a particular risk such as the fair value it is available for immediate sale in its of fixed rate debt.
present condition: management has committed to, and has initiated, a plan to sell the asset: and the sale is expected to complete within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 101 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Reconciliation of adjusted performance measures For the reasons set out in Note 1, the Group presents adjusted performance measures including adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share.
Following the re-alignment of the Groups Eaststarch joint venture, adjusted performance measures are now presented on an equity accounted basis.
Further information can be found in Note 1.
For the periods presented, these adjusted performance measures exclude, where relevant: exceptional items the amortisation of acquired intangible assets net retirement benefit interest tax on the above items.
The following table shows the reconciliation of the key adjusted performance measures to the most directly comparable measures reported in accordance with IFRS: Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2015 Restated IFRS Adjusting Adjusted IFRS Adjusting Adjusted # # m unless otherwise stated Reported items Reported Reported items Reported Continuing operations Sales 2 355 2 355 2 341 2 341 Operating profit 127 61 188 33 151 184 Net finance expense 29 6 23 31 8 23 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 28 28 23 23 Profit before tax 126 67 193 25 159 184 Income tax expense 5 27 32 21 13 34 Non-controlling interests Profit attributable to owners of the company 121 40 161 4 146 150 Basic earnings per share 26.1p 8.6p 34.7p 0.9p 31.4p 32.3p Diluted earnings per share 25.9p 8.6p 34.5p 0.8p 31.2p 32.0p Effective tax rate 4.0% 16.5% 84.0% 18.4% Following the re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture in October 2015, the Group has adopted equity accounting for joint ventures in the presentation of its adjusted performance measures, having previously used proportionate consolidation.
The following table provides a reconciliation between equity accounting the approach adopted during the year ended 31 March 2016 and proportionate consolidation for the Groups key adjusted performance measures: Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2015 Restated Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted equity proportionate equity proportionate accounting consolidation accounting consolidation m basis Adjustments basis basis Adjustments basis Continuing operations Adjusted operating profit 188 38 226 184 30 214 Adjusted net finance expense 23 23 23 23 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 28 28 23 23 Adjusted profit before tax 193 10 203 184 7 191 Adjusted income tax expense 32 10 42 34 7 41 Adjusted profit after tax 161 161 150 150 Adjusted basic earnings per share 34.7p 34.7p 32.3p 32.3p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 34.5p 34.5p 32.0p 32.0p Had the Group used proportionate consolidation in the year to 31 March 2016, adjusted operating profit for continuing operations would have been 226 million, 6% above the prior year 2% higher in constant currency, and adjusted profit before tax for continuing operations would have been 203 million, 6% higher 3% in constant currency.
The adjusted diluted earnings per share for continuing operations would have been unchanged at 34.5p.
The Groups prior year results on an adjusted basis have been restated from those reported in the 2015 Annual Report and accounts.
The restatement reflects 1 the adoption of equity accounting in adjusted performance measures, 2 the disposal of elements of the Eaststarch joint venture and classification of their performance as discontinued operations, and 3 the announced disposal of the Groups corn wet mill in Morocco leading to these operations being reclassified as discontinued operations.
Note 39 provides a reconciliation of the prior year restatement of adjusted performance measures.
# Adjusting items within operating profit are 50 million of exceptional costs see Note 7 2015 142 million, and 11 million of amortisation of acquired intangibles see Note 6 2015 9 million.
The adjusting item within net finance expense is a 6 million net retirement benefit interest charge see Note 30 2015 8 million.
Further, there is a 27 million adjustment within income tax expense in respect of taxation on these adjusting items see Note 12 2015 13 million.
102 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 5.
Segmental information Segment information is presented on a consistent basis with the information presented to the Board the designated Chief Operating Decision Maker for the purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Groups businesses.
Continuing operations comprise two operating segments: Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
Central, which comprises central costs including head office, treasury and re-insurance activities, does not meet the definition of an operating segment under IFRS 8 Operating Segments but no sub-total is shown for the Groups two operating segments in the tables below so as to be consistent with the presentation of segment information presented to the Board.
Both segments are served by a single manufacturing network, and receive services from a number of global support functions.
The segmental allocation of costs is performed using standard product costs to allocate all direct costs including plant-based depreciation and allocation keys for all indirect costs including share-based payments and amortisation which reflect the value of service provided to each operating unit, consistently applied over time.
The Board uses adjusted operating profit as the measure of the profitability of the Groups businesses.
Adjusted operating profit is, therefore, the measure of segment profit presented in the Groups segment disclosures.
Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit before specific items that are considered to hinder comparison of the trading performance of the Groups businesses year-on-year.
During the years presented, the items excluded from operating profit in arriving at adjusted operating profit were the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items.
Following the completion of the re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture, the Group has adopted equity accounting for joint ventures and associates in the presentation of its segmental information having previously used proportionate consolidation.
The restated segmental information for the 2015 year is presented below.
The segmental classification of exceptional items is detailed in Note 7.
An analysis of total assets and total liabilities by operating segment is not presented to the Board but it does receive segmental analysis of net working capital inventories, trade and other receivables, less trade and other payables.
Accordingly, the amounts presented for segment assets and segment liabilities in the tables below represent those assets and liabilities that comprise elements of net working capital.
In light of the restructuring of its operations, the Group has reviewed the appropriateness of segmental allocation rules and made adjustments to better reflect the way in which working capital is utilised by its two operating segments.
The revised segmental allocation of working capital allocates raw material and co-product inventories, and associated payables, based on segmental split of primary capacity.
Other payables, work in progress and finished goods inventories and receivables are allocated based on the products to which they relate.
The segment results were as follows: a Segment sales Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 Note m m Speciality Food Ingredients 897 865 Bulk Ingredients 1 458 1 476 Sales continuing 2 355 2 341 Sales discontinued operations 8 13 15 Sales total operations 2 368 2 356 b Segment results Adjusted operating profit is the measure of profitability of the Groups businesses used by the Board as it is considered to be the best measure to compare the results over time.
Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 Notes m m Speciality Food Ingredients 150 136 Bulk Ingredients 84 83 Central 46 35 Adjusted operating profit continuing operations 188 184 Adjusting items: exceptional items 7 50 142 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 19 11 9 Operating profit continuing operations 127 33 Finance income 11 1 1 Finance expense 11 30 32 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 28 23 Profit before tax continuing operations 126 25 Profit before tax discontinued operations 8 47 26 Profit before tax total operations 173 51 Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3.
Where adjusted metrics are presented, these have been further restated for the adoption of equity accounting see Note 1.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 103 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 Percentage Percentage Adjusted operating margin Speciality Food Ingredients 16.7% 15.7% Bulk Ingredients 5.8% 5.6% Central n a n a Total continuing operations 8.0% 7.9% c Segment assets liabilities Segment assets and segment liabilities include net working capital inventories, trade and other receivables, less trade and other payables.
An analysis of total assets and total liabilities by operating segment is not presented to the Board.
At 31 March 2016 Assets Liabilities Net m m m Net working capital Speciality Food Ingredients 339 150 189 Bulk Ingredients 341 146 195 Central 11 54 43 Group working capital continuing operations 691 350 341 Group working capital discontinued operations 5 2 3 Group working capital total operations 696 352 344 Other assets liabilities 1 858 1 173 685 Group assets liabilities 2 554 1 525 1 029 At 31 March 2015 Restated Assets Liabilities Net m m m Net working capital Speciality Food Ingredients 329 140 189 Bulk Ingredients 312 153 159 Central 8 36 28 Group working capital continuing operations 649 329 320 Group working capital discontinued operations 6 6 Group working capital total operations 655 329 326 Other assets liabilities 1 768 1 158 610 Group assets liabilities 2 423 1 487 936 d Other information Depreciation Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 m m Speciality Food Ingredients 33 39 Bulk Ingredients 46 44 Central 1 2 Depreciation continuing operations 80 85 Depreciation discontinued operations 1 Depreciation total operations 81 85 Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3 and, where appropriate, to reflect segmental allocation rules updated in light of the Groups restructuring see narrative on page 103.
104 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 5.
Segmental information continued e Other information Amortisation Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 m m Speciality Food Ingredients 27 20 Bulk Ingredients 7 3 Central 1 1 Amortisation continuing operations 35 24 Amortisation discontinued operations Amortisation total operations 35 24 f Other information Share-based payments Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 m m Speciality Food Ingredients 3 1 Bulk Ingredients 3 Central 3 1 Share-based payments continuing operations 9 Share-based payments discontinued operations Share-based payments total operations 9 g Other information Capital investment Capital investment comprises the cost of acquisition of businesses and capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including amounts accrued and investments.
Capital investment is allocated based on the product s to which the investment relates.
Where capital expenditure relates to plant sustaining or cost reduction projects, the cost is allocated based on the segmental split of the product mix by plant.
Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 m m Speciality Food Ingredients 162 105 Bulk Ingredients 75 72 Central 15 17 Capital investment continuing operations 252 194 Capital investment discontinued operations 1 Capital investment total operations 252 195 h Geographical information Sales by destination Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 Note m m United Kingdom 31 39 United States 1 736 1 694 Other European countries 288 296 Rest of the world 300 312 Sales continuing operations 2 355 2 341 Sales discontinued operations 8 13 15 Sales total operations 2 368 2 356 Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3 and, where appropriate, to reflect segmental allocation rules updated in light of the Groups restructuring see narrative on page 103.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 105 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued i Geographical information Sales by origin Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 Note m m United Kingdom 19 21 United States 1 828 1 823 Other European countries 319 331 Rest of the world 189 166 Sales continuing operations 2 355 2 341 Sales discontinued operations 8 13 15 Sales total operations 2 368 2 356 Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3 and, where appropriate, to reflect segmental allocation rules updated in light of the Groups restructuring see narrative on page 103. j Concentration of revenue During the financial year 2016, no customer contributed more than 10% of the Groups external sales from continuing operations 2015 one customer contributed 11%.
k Geographical information location of non-current assets The parent company is based in the United Kingdom.
The location of non-current assets, other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefits are as follows: At 31 March 2016 2015 m m United Kingdom 20 31 United States 956 874 Other European countries 327 426 Rest of the world 99 88 Non-current assets 1 402 1 419 6.
Operating Profit Analysis of operating expenses by nature: Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 Continuing Operations Notes m m External sales 2 355 2 341 Operating expenses: Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 1 268 1 308 Staff costs of which 131 million 2015 127 million was included in cost of sales 10 262 224 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: owned assets of which 71 million 2015 77 million was included in cost of sales 20 79 82 leased assets included in cost of sales 20 1 3 Exceptional items 7 50 142 Amortisation of intangible assets: acquired intangible assets 19 11 9 other intangible assets 19 24 15 Operating lease rentals: plant and machinery 24 18 Research and development expenditure 29 32 Impairment of trade receivables 17 Other operating expenses 480 475 Total operating expenses 2 228 2 308 Operating profit 127 33 Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3.
Included within discontinued operations are operating expenses totalling 14 million 2015 15 million offset by net exceptional gains of 46 million 2015 nil.
106 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 7.
Exceptional items Exceptional items recognised in arriving at operating profit were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 Footnotes m m Continuing operations Business re-alignment impairment, restructuring and other net costs a 48 118 Asset impairment reversal b 3 SPLENDA Sucralose revised table top commercial agreement c 2 Tate & Lyle Ventures investment disposal profit net of impairment d 7 US litigation e 15 Slovakia re-measurement gain f 5 Business transformation costs g 12 Termination of distribution rights agreement g 12 Exceptional items continuing operations 50 142 Discontinued operations Business re-alignment Eaststarch and Morocco disposal h 64 ASR litigation settlement i 18 Exceptional items discontinued operations 46 Exceptional items total operations 4 142 Continuing operations a In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised exceptional costs relating to business re-alignment totalling 48 million.
The Group recognised a net charge of 33 million in the year representing costs arising from the closure of the Singapore sucralose facility.
Included in the net charge was a 5 million gain relating to the write back of certain assets previously utilised in Singapore that will be redeployed elsewhere within the Group as part of the business re-alignment.
The Group also recognised a charge of 15 million in the year arising from the restructuring of its European operations.
Of the total charge, 29 million was paid in cash in the year.
Of the 48 million total costs, 43million were recognised within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment, and 5million were classified as Central costs.
In the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group recognised a charge of 113 million within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment, comprising an impairment of the property, plant and equipment 108 million and associated intangible assets 5 million at Singapore.
In addition, the Group incurred 5 million of one-off costs associated with the European business re-alignment primarily consultancy and redundancy costs which were classified as Central costs.
b In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group has recognised a non-cash exceptional credit of 3 million in respect of the recognition of a partial reversal of an impairment of plant and equipment assets which were previously impaired through an exceptional charge.
This exceptional credit was classified within Bulk Ingredients.
c In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group received cash compensation of 5 million related to SPLENDA Sucralose and the renegotiation of our commercial agreements for the SPLENDA Sucralose brand table top business following the sale of the SPLENDA brand by McNeil Nutritionals, LLC.
The Group also wrote off a marketing related intangible asset loss of 9 million and wrote back an associated payable gain of 2 million relating to the former alliance with McNeil.
These amounts were all classified within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
d In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group realised a 9 million profit on the disposal of part of its venture fund portfolio which was classified as an available-for-sale financial asset within the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group also recognised 2 million of impairment charges in respect of this portfolio, leaving a net gain in the year of 7 million.
Cash proceeds in respect of venture asset disposals totalled 18 million classified within cash flows from investing activities in the consolidated statement of cash flow in the year ended 31 March 2016.
This net profit was classified within Central costs.
e In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised a 15 million exceptional charge in respect of two US litigation claims.
In November 2015, the Group reached settlement in respect of the claim brought by the American Sugar Association and others relating to alleged false advertising involving high fructose corn syrup HFCS.
The settlement together with associated costs totalled 9 million.
These costs were classified within the Bulk Ingredients segment.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 107 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Exceptional items continued In addition, the Group has recognised a provision of 6 million in respect of the Passaic River environmental litigation.
In 2007 the Group was notified by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency USEPA that it, along with approximately 70 others, was a potentially responsible party PRP for a 17 mile section of the northern New Jersey Passaic River, which is a major Superfund Site.
Our involvement in this case derives from a former Staley Chemical Company plant in Kearny, New Jersey owned by A E Staley until 1978, around ten years prior to the acquisition of A E Staley by Tate & Lyle, which is alleged to have generated hazardous waste which made its way to the Passaic River.
In March 2016, the USEPA issued its Record of Decision ROD on the likely cost for the remediation that it believes will be required.
Prior to this decision, given the status of the litigation, it was not possible to estimate reasonably a possible range of loss and no provision was held in the financial statements.
The ROD addresses the clean-up for the most contaminated lower 8.3 miles of the river section in question and sets a total assessment of expected costs at $1.38 billion.
Based on the current status of the group of PRPs, the Groups potential share of this cost, should it ultimately be held responsible, is around 0.6%.
The Group will continue to defend itself vigorously in this matter, but in light of the publication of the ROD, has recognised a provision as an exceptional expense in the year to 31 March 2016.
These costs were classified within Central costs.
f In the year ended 31 March 2016, as part of the re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture, the Group recognised an exceptional gain of 5 million within continuing operations reflecting the re-measurement to fair value of its existing investment in Slovakia see Note 34.
These costs were classified within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
g In the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group completed the implementation of a common global IS IT system, with 12 million recognised as an exceptional cost in the prior period.
In December 2014, the Group made a payment of 12 million to terminate distribution rights previously awarded to a third party to sell our crystalline fructose principally in Asia Pacific.
The expense was recognised within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
As detailed in Note 12, the tax impact of exceptional items within continuing operations was a 21 million credit year ended 31 March 2015 8 million credit.
Tax credits on exceptional costs are only recognised to the extent that losses incurred will result in tax recoverable in the future.
Discontinued operations h In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised a net exceptional gain of 64 million in relation to the exit from a substantial part of its European bulk ingredients business.
The Group recognised an exceptional profit on disposal of 68 million in respect of the disposal of its share in the Eaststarch joint venture see Note 8.
The profit on disposal includes an amount of 17 million representing the share of profit after tax attributable to the Group whilst the investments were classified as held for sale.
The Group also recognised a 4 million non-cash impairment charge in respect of its bulk ingredients facility in Morocco with an agreement reached with Archer Daniels Midland Inc. ADM to purchase this facility.
The impairment represents the excess of its net book value over the expected proceeds.
i A s previously announced, Judgement was handed down on 29 September 2015 in the case brought by American Sugar Refining, Inc. ASR in which it made a number of claims totalling around 40 million in relation to its acquisition of the Groups EU Sugars business in September 2010 for a consideration of 211 million.
The Court found in favour of ASR on two elements of its claims, whilst rejecting all other aspects.
Accordingly, in the Judgement, the Court has awarded damages of 18 million to ASR.
Neither party has appealed the decision and the full amount of damages awarded was paid to ASR at the end of October 2015, together with agreed interest and costs totalling 5 million.
At 31 March 2015, the Group held a provision totalling 5 million in respect of this claim.
The excess over this provision, amounting to 18 million, is reported as an exceptional item within discontinued operations.
The tax impact on exceptional items within discontinued operations was nil 2015 nil.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised an exceptional tax charge of 5 million in discontinued operations in respect of historic tax matters relating to the Moroccan facility which the Group has agreed to sell to ADM. Cash flows Net cash outflow on exceptional items is as follows: Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 Footnotes m m Continuing operations Business re-alignment impairment, restructuring and other net costs a 29 5 SPLENDA Sucralose revised table top commercial agreement c 5 US litigation e 9 Business transformation costs and termination of distribution rights agreement g 24 Net cash outflow exceptional items 33 29 Income statement charge included in profit before tax 50 142 Add back of non-cash exceptional items within reconciliation of cash generated from continuing operating activities 17 113 In addition, there were exceptional cash flows relating to the sale of assets from the Groups venture fund portfolio totalling 18 million within cash from investing activities.
108 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 8.
Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale On 31 October 2015, the Group completed the re-alignment of its Eaststarch joint venture.
As a result, the Group has substantially exited its European bulk ingredients business by disposing of its share of the plants in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary, whilst strengthening its Speciality Food Ingredients business by acquiring full ownership of the plant in Slovakia.
In a related agreement, the Group also recently agreed to sell its corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco to Archer Daniels Midland Inc. ADM and the assets and liabilities of that facility totalling net 5 million asset are classified as held for sale at 31 March 2016.
The results of the disposed operations in both current and comparative periods have been restated within discontinued operations.
The Group also announced on 29 September 2015 that the Commercial Court in London had handed down a decision in a case brought by American Sugar Refining, Inc. ASR in which it made a number of claims in relation to its acquisition of our European Sugars business.
The European Sugars business formed part of the Groups discontinued Sugars segment, and accordingly an exceptional charge of 18 million was recognised within discontinued operations.
In addition, subsequent to the buy-in initiated in 2014 whereby the Group took steps to reduce pensions risks, the Group also made a 2 million payment in order to transfer all remaining obligations under a legacy pension scheme the Amylum UK Pension Scheme to a third party provider.
The Amylum business formed part of the Groups discontinued European Starch facilities and accordingly these costs were also recognised within discontinued operations.
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the consolidated income statement were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2016 Eaststarch Sugars Total Morocco EU Starch Discontinued Discontinued operations Note m m m Sales 13 13 Operating profit loss including exceptional items 65 20 45 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 2 2 Profit loss before tax 67 20 47 Income tax charge including exceptional items 5 5 Profit loss for the year discontinued operations 62 20 42 Basic earnings per share discontinued operations 13 9.0p Diluted earnings per share discontinued operations 13 8.9p Sales of 13 million were recognised by the Groups corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco.
The Group realised an exceptional profit on disposal of 68 million in respect of the disposal of the Hungarian, Bulgarian and Turkish Eaststarch plants.
The profit on disposal includes an amount of 17 million representing the share of profit after tax attributable to the Group whilst the investments were classified as held for sale, 15 million of which was incorrectly recognised in the Statement of Half Year Results for the six months to 30 September 2015.
Under IAS 28 guidance, the profit attributable to a joint venture business whilst held for sale should have been deferred and recognised as part of the profit on disposal.
Whilst this has no impact on the Groups full year results, restatement will be made in the comparative amounts reported in the Groups statement of half year results for 2017.
This exceptional profit was partially offset by a 3 million operating loss in relation to the Groups corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco which included an exceptional impairment charge of 4 million see Note 7.
As noted above, the 20 million loss relating to Sugars and EU Starch is in respect of the 18 million ASR charge and 2 million Amylum UK Pension Scheme payment.
Year ended 31 March 2015 Eaststarch Sugars Total Morocco EU Starch Discontinued Discontinued operations Note m m m Sales 15 15 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 26 26 Profit before tax and profit for the year discontinued operations 26 26 Basic and diluted earnings per share discontinued operations 13 5.7p The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the consolidated cash flow statement were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2016 Eaststarch Sugars Total Morocco EU Starch Discontinued Discontinued operations m m m Profit loss before tax from discontinued operations 67 20 47 Adjustments for: Exceptional items and changes in working capital 69 5 74 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 2 2 Cash used in discontinued operations 4 25 29 There were no cash flows from discontinued operations in the year ended 31 March 2015.
Assets held for sale The major classes of assets and liabilities of Tate & Lyle Morocco SA are classified as held for sale to ADM as at 31 March 2016.
The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities totalled 5 million consisting of assets totalling 7 million and liabilities totalling 2 million after recognition of a 4 million impairment charge see Note 7.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 109 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9.
Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys external auditors,  LLP, and its associates were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 m m Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.7 0.7 Fees payable for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.2 1.2 audit-related services 0.1 0.1 other non-audit services 0.2 0.2 2.2 2.2 Fees in respect of the audit of the Groups pension schemes 0.1 0.1 Total 2.3 2.3 The audit and non-audit fees related to joint ventures payable to  LLP and its associates, excluded from the table above, were nil million 2015 0.1 million and nil 2015 nil respectively.
Staff costs Staff costs were as follows: Restated Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2015 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations m m m m Wages and salaries 233 1 202 1 Social security costs 17 14 Other pension costs: defined benefit pension schemes 2 4 defined contribution pension schemes 4 5 Retirement medical benefits 3 1 Share-based payments 9 Total 262 1 224 1 The average number of people employed by the Company and its subsidiaries, including part-time employees, is set out below: Year ended 31 March Restated By operating segment 2016 2015 Continuing operations Speciality Food Ingredients 2 092 1 948 Bulk Ingredients 1 621 1 606 Central 448 414 Total 4 161 3 968 Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3, reclassification between wages, salaries and social security costs, and updated segmental allocation rules in light of the Groups restructuring.
In addition, the average number of people employed relating to discontinued operations was 93 2015 96.
At 31 March 2016, the Group employed 4,326 2015 4,040 people within continuing operations.
The number of people employed by the Group relating to discontinued operations at 31 March 2016 was 91 2015 96.
The Groups two operating segments are supported by Global Operations, which is responsible for running the Groups manufacturing facilities.
The Group allocates the headcount of the Global Operations team to segments based on the split of primary capacity at each location.
Central includes shared service employees who perform activities for the whole Group, including the Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients segments.
Key management compensation Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 10 6 Retirement benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 2 Total 13 7 Key management is represented by the Executive Committee and the Companys Directors.
Remuneration details of the Companys Directors are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 79.
Members of the Executive Committee are identified on page 16.
The aggregate gains made by the directors on the exercise of share options were 9 million 2015 5 million.
110 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 11.
Finance income and expense Finance income in the period was 1 million 2015 1 million, mostly related to interest on cash placed on deposit.
Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 Continuing operations m m Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 22 23 Fair value hedges: fair value loss on interest rate derivatives 4 3 fair value adjustment of hedged borrowings 4 3 Finance lease interest 1 1 Net retirement benefit interest 6 8 Unwinding of discount on liabilities 1 Total finance expense 30 32 Reconciliation to adjusted net finance expense Notes m m Net finance expense includes 1 million of finance income 29 31 Net retirement benefit interest 30 6 8 Adjusted net finance expense continuing operations 4 23 23 Finance expense is shown net of borrowing costs of 2 million 2015 1 million capitalised within property, plant and equipment 2015 capitalised within intangible assets at a capitalisation rate of 3.3% 2015 3.4%.
Interest payable on other borrowings includes 0.2 million 2015 0.2 million of dividends in respect of the Groups 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Finance income and finance expense relate wholly to continuing operations.
Income taxes Analysis of charge for the year continuing operations Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 m m In respect of current year: United Kingdom UK Overseas 32 15 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2 2 30 13 Deferred tax: Credit charge for the year 24 8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 Income tax expense continuing operations 5 21 Reconciliation to adjusted income tax expense Note m m Income tax expense 5 21 Taxation on exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and net retirement benefit interest 27 13 Adjusted income tax expense continuing operations 4 32 34 Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3.
Profit for the year from continuing operations reflected an income tax expense of 5 million 2015 expense of 21 million, including an income tax credit of 27 million 2015 credit of 13 million in respect of exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and net retirement benefit interest see Note 4.
As at 31 March 2016, the carrying value of current tax assets totalled 3 million 2015 2 million and the carrying value of current tax liabilities totalled 66 million 2015 45 million.
The Groups adjusted effective tax rate on continuing operations, calculated on the basis of the adjusted income tax expense of 32 million 2015 34 million as a proportion of adjusted profit before tax of 193 million 2015 184 million, was 16.5% 2015 18.4%.
This includes non-recurring tax credits relating to tax audit settlements in several European jurisdictions.
In respect of joint ventures, a tax charge of 10 million 2015 7 million was recognised on profit before tax of 38 million for continuing operations 2015 30 million.
For its adjusted metrics the Group adopted equity accounting for joint ventures in the year to 31 March 2016 having previously used a proportionate consolidation basis.
The Group adjusted effective tax rate for the continuing operations on a proportionate consolidation basis would have been 20.7% 2015 21.5%, being a tax charge of 42 million 2015 41 million on adjusted profit before tax of 203 million 2015 191 million.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 111 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Income taxes continued An analysis of tax charged credited on adjusting items within continuing operations is set out below: Year ended 31 March 2016 Tax charge Pre-Tax credit Notes m m Continuing operations Business re-alignment: Sucralose 33 14 European restructuring 15 1 Asset impairment reversal 3 1 SPLENDA Sucralose agreement 2 1 Tate & Lyle Ventures 7 US litigation: CRA settlement 9 3 Passaic River 6 3 Slovakia re-measurement gain 5 Total exceptional items 7 50 21 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 11 3 Net retirement benefit interest 6 3 Total adjusting items continuing operations 4 67 27 The Group recognised no tax charge in the UK in the year 2015 nil, as costs exceeded current year taxable income, resulting in net tax losses.
These losses have not been treated as recoverable in future periods, although this position could be impacted in subsequent years by changes in legislation.
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK is currently 20%.
Further reductions to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and to 18% effective from 1 April 2020 were committed to by the UK government.
Reconciliation of the effective tax rate As the Groups head office and parent company is domiciled in the UK, the Group uses the UK corporation tax rate to reference its effective tax rate, notwithstanding that only a small proportion of the Groups business is in the UK.
The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as follows: Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 126 25 Less share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 28 23 Parent Company and subsidiaries profit before tax 98 2 Corporation tax charge thereon at 20% 2015 21% 19 Adjusted for the effects of: non-deductible expenses and other permanent items 1 1 impairment of investments not deductible 24 1 benefits from internal financing arrangements 25 24 sale of investments not taxable 1 2 manufacturing credits 3 2 3 losses not currently treated as being recoverable in future periods 10 11 4 adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 3 2 5 tax rates above the UK rate applied on overseas earnings 9 13 Total tax charge continuing operations 5 21 Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3.
1 The Groups tax rate is favourably affected by its internal financing arrangements which involve borrowing by its US operations from the UK, the interest on which has the effect of reducing the amount of tax payable.
2 The Group benefits from certain tax incentives available to manufacturing companies.
3 The Group incurs expenses in jurisdictions, primarily the UK, where it does not currently expect to be able to recover these amounts against future taxable profits.
This has the effect of increasing the Groups overall effective tax rate.
4 The Group benefited from the favourable settlement of certain prior year tax matters in the year.
5 The Group is subject to tax rates in the jurisdictions in which it operates which are above the UK corporation tax rate the Groups reference rate leading to an increase in total tax charge of 9 million 2015 13 million.
112 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 12.
Income taxes continued Key factors impacting the sustainability of the effective tax rate are as follows: 1.
Our ability to continue to operate an efficient internal financing arrangement One of our internal financing arrangements involves borrowing by our US operations from the UK, the interest on which has the effect of reducing the amount of tax payable.
This delivered a benefit of 25 million in the 2016 financial year 2015 24 million.
If we were unable to operate this arrangement in future, due to legislative change or other factors, our tax rate could increase materially.
The timing of recognising tax benefits from brought forward losses in the UK If, due to legislative changes in the UK, the Group were to become subject to higher levels of profit chargeable to tax in the UK, we would seek to recognise historical losses in the form of deferred tax assets to reduce cash tax payable in the UK.
The timing of recognition of these assets could increase volatility in the effective tax rate in the Groups income statement, particularly in the year they were first recognised.
In addition, in March 2016, the UK government announced draft changes to UK loss utilisation rules which could impact our ability to utilise brought forward losses in the future.
Material changes in the geographic mix of profits The Groups effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of profits and reflects a combination of higher rates in certain jurisdictions such as the US, nil effective rates in the UK due to the availability of losses and rates that lie somewhere in between.
If the geographic mix of profits were to change materially, through changes in the composition of the Groups business or changes in performance, our tax rate could change materially.
Changes in tax rates Changes in tax rates in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, principally the US, could have a material effect on the Groups effective tax rate.
Resolution of tax judgements arising from current or future tax issues At any one time, the Group can be subject to a number of challenges by tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The outcome of these challenges is inherently uncertain, potentially resulting in a different tax charge from the amounts initially provided.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated on differences between the accounting value of assets and liabilities and their respective tax values.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year were as follows: Capital allowances Retirement in excess of benefit Share-based depreciation obligations payments Tax losses Other Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2014 121 64 5 16 2 38 Credited charged to the income statement 1 5 1 5 2 8 Credited to other comprehensive income 20 2 22 Charged directly to equity Currency translation differences 12 8 2 2 4 At 31 March 2015 132 87 4 13 28 Credited charged to the income statement 4 6 1 8 34 25 Credited to other comprehensive income 2 2 Charged directly to equity 3 3 Acquisitions disposals 7 7 Currency translation differences 6 1 2 7 At 31 March 2016 134 83 2 6 25 18 Other deferred tax items include temporary differences arising from accounting provisions, where the timing of the tax deduction is different from the timing of accounting recognition, and business combinations.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
After taking these offsets into account, the net position of 18 million liability 2015 28 million liability is presented as a 3 million deferred tax asset 2015 4 million asset and a 21 million deferred tax liability 2015 32 million liability in the Groups statement of financial position.
Changes in enacted tax rates had no effect on the amount of deferred tax charged to the income statement and other comprehensive income or equity.
There was no impact from the imposition of new taxes.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses of 753 million 2015 664 million as there is uncertainty as to whether taxable profits against which these assets may be recovered will be available.
No unrelieved tax losses expired under current tax legislation in the year ended 31 March 2016.
The total deferred tax on unremitted earnings is 4 million 2015 3 million of which nil 2015 nil has been recognised.
The Group has not recognised the amount as it is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 113 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Income taxes continued Discontinued operations The income tax charge in respect of discontinued operations Note 8 in the year ended 31 March 2016 was 5 million 2015 nil representing an exceptional charge in respect of historical tax matters at the Moroccan facility, which the Group has agreed to sell to ADM. Tax on other comprehensive income The following table sets out the tax credit arising on components of other comprehensive income: Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 Reconciliation to adjusted income tax expense m m Retirement benefit obligations 2 20 Cash flow hedges 2 Tax credit relating to components of other comprehensive income 2 22 Deferred tax 2 22 Tax on items recognised directly in equity A deferred tax charge of 3 million, in relation to share-based payments, was recognised directly in equity.
No tax, current or deferred, was recognised in equity in 2015.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding an average of 4 million shares 2015 4 million shares held by the Company or the Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy awards made under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares as well as the profit attributable to owners of the Company for any proceeds on such conversions.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares arise from awards made under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
Where the vesting of these awards is contingent on satisfying a service or performance condition, the number of potentially dilutive ordinary shares is calculated based on the status of the condition at the end of the period.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares are dilutive only when the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the period exceeds their exercise price options or issue price other awards.
Otherwise, the effect of exercising such options or awards would be to increase the earnings per share rather than to dilute.
The greater any such excess, the greater the dilutive effect.
The average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year was 574p 2015 640p.
The dilutive effect of share-based incentives was 3.4 million shares 2015 3.8 million shares.
Restated Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2015 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations operations operations operations operations Profit attributable to owners of the Company million 121 42 163 4 26 30 Weighted average number of ordinary shares millions basic 464.3 464.3 464.3 464.2 464.2 464.2 Basic earnings per share 26.1p 9.0p 35.1p 0.9p 5.7p 6.6p Weighted average number of ordinary shares millions diluted 467.7 467.7 467.7 468.0 468.0 468.0 Diluted earnings per share 25.9p 8.9p 34.8p 0.8p 5.7p 6.5p Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3.
114 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 13.
Earnings per share continued Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share measures are calculated based on profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to owners of the Company before adjusting items as follows: Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 Continuing operations Notes m m Profit attributable to owners of the Company 121 4 Adjusting items: exceptional items 7 50 142 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 19 11 9 net retirement benefit interest 11, 30 6 8 tax effect of the above adjustments 12 27 13 Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company 4 161 150 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence continuing operations 34.7p 32.3p Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence continuing operations 34.5p 32.0p Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3.
Dividends on ordinary shares Dividends on ordinary shares in respect of the financial year: Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 pence pence Per ordinary share: interim dividend paid 8.2 8.2 final dividend proposed 19.8 19.8 Total dividend 28.0 28.0 The Directors propose a final dividend for the financial year of 19.8p per ordinary share that, subject to approval by shareholders, will be paid on 29 July 2016 to shareholders who are on the Register of Members on 1 July 2016.
Dividends on ordinary shares paid in the financial year: Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 m m Final dividend paid relating to the prior financial year 92 92 Interim dividend paid relating to the financial year 38 38 Total dividend paid 130 130 Based on the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 31 March 2016 and the proposed amount, the final dividend for the financial year is expected to amount to 92 million.
Inventories At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Raw materials and consumables 187 172 Work in progress 12 22 Finished goods 190 169 Total 389 363 Finished goods inventories of 7 million 2015 5 million are carried at net realisable value, this being lower than cost.
Agricultural produce after harvest of 101 million 2015 96 million is carried at net realisable value.
During the year to 31 March 2016, the Group recognised a write-down of inventories totalling 4 million 2015 nil, of which 3 million relates to the normal course of business and is included in the cost of inventories.
The remaining 1 million relates to the write-down of sucralose inventories as part of the business re-alignment costs see Note 7.
The amount of inventories transferred to assets held for sale is 2 million 2015 nil and relates to the Groups facility in Morocco see Note 8.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 115 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16.
Cash and cash equivalents At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand 208 108 Short-term bank deposits 109 87 Total cash and cash equivalents 317 195 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits at 31 March 2016 was 0.5% 2015 0.3%, with an average maturity of 19 days 2015 three days.
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents was denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Euro 10 31 US dollar 217 107 Sterling 63 29 Other 27 28 Total 317 195 17.
Trade and other receivables At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Trade receivables 246 256 Less provision for doubtful debts 8 8 Trade receivables net 238 248 Prepayments and accrued income 17 11 Margin deposits 15 7 Other receivables 31 24 Total 301 290 The above amounts do not include non-current other receivables of 1 million 2015 2 million.
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables was denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2016 2015 m m US dollar 183 177 Euro 63 70 Sterling 10 13 Other 46 32 Total 302 292 There have been no impairments or write-offs of receivables during the year 2015 nil.
At 31 March 2016, trade receivables of 9 million 2015 22 million were past due but not impaired because they were considered to be collectible.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables was as follows: At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Up to 30 days past due 8 13 13 months past due 1 5 Over 3 months past due 4 Total 9 22 Trade receivables are not generally interest-bearing but interest may be charged to customers on overdue amounts.
116 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 18.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets comprise 23 million 2015 31 million of unlisted securities.
The fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are carried at cost where fair value cannot be reliably measured.
m At 1 April 2015 31 Additions 4 Disposals 9 Impairment loss 3 At 31 March 2016 23 Note m At 1 April 2014 28 Additions 2 Disposals 2 Fair value gain in other comprehensive income 23 2 Impairment loss 2 Currency translation differences 3 At 31 March 2015 31 The carrying value of the available-for-sale financial assets was denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2016 2015 m m US dollars 19 20 Sterling 2 11 Euro 2 Total 23 31 Presented in the Statement of financial position as follows: At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Non-current assets 19 15 Current assets 4 16 Total 23 31 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 117 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Other Total Other Patents and acquired acquired intangible Goodwill other IP intangibles intangibles assets Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2015 158 40 107 305 203 508 Subsidiaries acquired 32 33 65 65 Additions at cost 19 19 Disposals and write-offs 24 24 Transfer to assets held for sale 1 1 Currency translation differences 14 10 24 7 31 At 31 March 2016 204 40 150 394 204 598 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2015 33 76 109 59 168 Impairment charge Disposals and write-offs 5 5 Amortisation charge 2 9 11 24 35 Transfer to assets held for sale Currency translation differences 6 6 4 10 At 31 March 2016 35 91 126 82 208 Net book value at 31 March 2016 204 5 59 268 122 390 Cost At 1 April 2014 133 39 114 286 165 451 Subsidiaries acquired 27 27 27 Additions at cost 34 34 Disposals and write-offs 1 1 Currency translation differences 2 1 7 8 5 3 At 31 March 2015 158 40 107 305 203 508 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2014 31 72 103 41 144 Impairment charge 5 5 Disposals and write-offs 1 1 Amortisation charge 2 7 9 15 24 Currency translation differences 3 3 1 4 At 31 March 2015 33 76 109 59 168 Net book value at 31 March 2015 158 7 31 196 144 340 Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated as follows: At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Allocated by geographical area United States 65 62 Allocated by operating segment Speciality Food Ingredients 137 95 Bulk Ingredients 2 1 139 96 Total 204 158 118 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 19.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued i Impairment tests carried out during the year The Group is principally operated as an integrated network in the United States and Europe, with a large amount of interdependency between plants servicing both the Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients segments.
Goodwill is therefore tested for impairment on a geographical basis, except where it can be allocated to a specific CGU.
A description of the impairment tests conducted in relation to the most significant goodwill amounts are set out below.
In each case, the recoverable amount was calculated based on value in use, with the exception of Brazilian Food Systems business Tate & Lyle Gemacom Tech Indstria e Comrcio S. A. Gemacom and the acquisition of Amylum Slovakia s. r. o.
Value in use was calculated based on budgets and plans covering the next five years that have been approved by the Board.
Cash flows were projected during the five-year period based on budgeted operating profit and managements expectations of market developments.
Beyond the five-year plan, cash flows were generally assumed to grow at the long-term growth rate for the relevant geographical markets based on forecasts included in industry reports.
Cash flows were discounted using pre-tax rates that are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted, where appropriate, to reflect differences between the risk profile of the geographical areas or CGUs concerned and that of the Group as a whole.
Goodwill allocated by geographical area United States Goodwill allocated to the US single ingredients operations of 65 million 2015 62 million relates to the Staley acquisition in 1988.
The key assumptions in the model are derived from the Groups Annual Operating Plan for 2017, which includes mid-single digit volume growth in Speciality Food Ingredients and flat volumes in Bulk Ingredients.
From 2018 onwards, volumes are projected to grow broadly in line with 2017 expectations, and operating profit is assumed to increase by single digits for both Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients thereafter, based on managements long-term industry expectations.
Based on the risk profile of the assets tested, cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax rate of 9.6% 2015 10.0%.
Significant headroom exists and management concluded that no impairment is required.
Goodwill allocated by operating segment Speciality Food Ingredients Goodwill allocated to the Speciality Food Ingredients segment includes 58 million 2015 53 million that relates to the European Food Systems acquisitions of G. C. Hahn and Company in June 2007 and that of Cesalpinia Foods in December 2005.
As these businesses are operationally integrated, they are tested for impairment as one CGU.
The key assumptions in the model are derived from the Groups Annual Operating Plan for 2017, with mid-single digit operating profit growth assumed over a five year period.
Cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax rate of 9.6% 2015 10.0%.
Management concluded that no impairment is required.
During the year, the Group completed the re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture whereby the remaining 50% of Amylum Slovakia s. r. o was purchased subsequently renamed Tate & Lyle Boleraz s. r. o..
This entity has individually material goodwill provisionally recorded as 35 million at the acquisition date see Note 34.
The Group considered whether or not this goodwill was impaired as at 31 March 2016 and concluded that it was not.
The only other CGU within the Speciality Food Ingredients operating segment with individually material goodwill is Gemacom, with goodwill of 18 million.
As this entity was acquired in the prior financial year, the acquisition business case continues to form the basis of the operating plan.
As such, the recoverable amount was calculated based on fair value less costs of disposal.
The fair value was determined based on a discounted cash flow model using a post-tax discount rate and cash inflows and outflows from future expansion.
Cash flows from 2017 onwards are expected to grow at a compound annual rate of around 40% over the subsequent four years, and at 5% thereafter, reflecting the long-term growth expectations for this market.
Cash flows were discounted using a post-tax rate of 14% 2015 16.7% pre-tax.
The fair value less costs of disposal of this CGU exceeds its carrying value, and management concluded that no impairment is required.
However, this calculation resulted in a low level of headroom compared with the carrying value.
The amount of headroom was particularly sensitive to the short-term growth rate, the terminal growth rate and discount rate.
Reasonably possible changes in each of these assumptions, being changes in excess of an increase in the discount rate of 110bps, a reduction in compound annual growth rate of 400bps or a reduction in terminal growth rate of 150bps, could lead to an impairment.
There are no other individually material elements of goodwill allocated to either the Speciality Food Ingredients or Bulk Ingredients operating segments.
ii Possibility of impairment in the near future Management considers that, with the exception of Gemacom, there is no reasonably possible change in one or more of the key assumptions used in the impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets that would give rise to an impairment loss during the coming year.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 119 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in the Land and Plant and course of buildings machinery construction Total Note m m m m Cost At 1 April 2015 442 1 977 124 2 543 Additions at cost 10 165 175 Subsidiaries acquired 34 14 30 3 47 Transfers on completion 16 54 70 Disposals and write-offs 3 3 Transfers to assets held for sale 2 11 13 Currency translation differences 15 85 100 At 31 March 2016 485 2 142 222 2 849 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2015 245 1 523 25 1 793 Depreciation charge 11 69 80 1 Impairment charge 1 1 Reversal of impairment losses 9 9 Disposals and write-offs 1 1 Transfers to assets held for sale 1 7 8 Currency translation differences 9 58 67 At 31 March 2016 265 1 633 25 1 923 Net book value at 31 March 2016 220 509 197 926 Including assets held under finance leases 9 9 Cost At 1 April 2014 390 1 757 58 2 205 Additions at cost 8 125 133 Subsidiaries acquired 9 3 12 Transfers on completion 7 52 59 Disposals and write-offs 1 1 Currency translation differences 36 158 194 At 31 March 2015 442 1 977 124 2 543 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2014 195 1 278 1 473 Depreciation charge 11 74 85 Impairment charge 19 64 25 108 Disposals and write-offs 1 1 Currency translation differences 20 108 128 At 31 March 2015 245 1 523 25 1 793 Net book value at 31 March 2015 197 454 99 750 Including assets held under finance leases 10 10 Impairment reviews During the year, the Group recognised an impairment charge of 1 million related to assets in the European Food Systems business.
Management conducted impairment reviews of other property, plant and equipment during the year and concluded that there were no other impairments.
As part of the major business re-alignment the Group recognised a 108million impairment charge in the year ended 31 March 2015 relating to the property, plant and equipment in its SPLENDA Sucralose facility in Singapore.
The charge was recognised as an exceptional item see Note 7.
1 Excludes impairment charge in relation to assets held for sale see Note 8.
120 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 21.
Equity accounted investments The amounts recognised in the Group consolidated income statement are as follows: Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 Note m m Associates continuing operations Joint ventures continuing operations 28 23 Joint ventures discontinued operations 8 2 26 Total operations 30 49 Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3.
The amounts recognised in the Group consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Associates 3 4 Joint ventures 82 323 Associates The Groups only associate, which is accounted for under the equity method, is Tapioca Development Corporation see Note 38.
The associate has share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are held directly by the Group and the country of incorporation or registration is also its principal place of business.
Tapioca Development Corporation is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
In the opinion of the Directors, this associate is not considered to be material to the Group and there are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the associate.
The investment in the associate as at 31 March 2016 was 3 million 2015 4 million.
The Group recognised nil net profit 2015 nil in its Consolidated income statement.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group received a dividend of 1 million 2015 nil from its associate.
Joint ventures In the opinion of the Directors, the Groups material joint ventures, which are accounted for under the equity method, are Almidones Mexicanos SA Almex and DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Products Company, LLC Bio-PDO see Note 38.
The joint ventures have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are held directly by the Group and its joint venture partners and are private companies.
No quoted market price is available for their shares.
There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint ventures.
On 31 October 2015, the Group disposed of its investment in Eaststarch C. V. As a result, the Group no longer has any guarantees in respect of banking facilities of Eaststarch 2015 8 million.
The Group received pre-disposal dividends from Eaststarch joint venture totalling 94 million 68 million.
The movements in the carrying value of the Groups investment in joint ventures are summarised as follows: Investments in joint ventures Note m At 1 April 2015 323 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures total operations 30 Disposal including goodwill 177 Other comprehensive expense including exchange 23 12 Dividends 82 At 31 March 2016 82 m At 1 April 2014 308 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures total operations 49 Other comprehensive expense including exchange 23 18 Dividends 16 At 31 March 2015 323 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 121 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Equity accounted investments continued Set out below is the summarised financial information for each material joint venture accounted for using the equity method.
The information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint ventures and not the Groups share of those amounts adjusted for differences in accounting policies between the Group and the joint ventures to make it consistent with the Groups accounting policies.
Income statement Year ended 31 March 2016 Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m m Sales 160 490 65 715 Depreciation and amortisation 3 2 6 11 Finance income 1 1 Other expense 147 426 50 623 Profit before tax 11 62 9 82 Income tax expense 2 19 1 22 Profit for the year from total operations 9 43 8 60 Other comprehensive expense income related to assets and liabilities 17 9 2 24 Total comprehensive expense income 8 34 10 36 Dividends 136 17 11 164 Eaststarch comprises the results of Amylum Slovakia from 1 April 2015 until it became a subsidiary on 31 October 2015 and the results of the disposal group from 1 April 2015 until it became held for sale on 21 April 2015.
The profit on disposal is included as an exceptional item see Note 7.
Income statement Year ended 31 March 2015 Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m m Sales 266 434 60 760 Depreciation and amortisation 18 2 6 26 Finance income 1 1 Other expense 165 400 44 609 Profit before tax 84 32 10 126 Income tax expense 18 10 28 Profit for the year from total operations 66 22 10 98 Other comprehensive expense income related to assets 39 4 7 36 and liabilities Total comprehensive income 27 18 17 62 Dividends 28 4 32 Statement of financial position At 31 March 2016 Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m m Assets Non-current assets 37 51 1 89 Cash and cash equivalents 4 10 14 Other current assets 163 13 1 177 204 74 2 280 Liabilities Other non-current liabilities 6 6 Current borrowings 38 38 Other current liabilities 63 10 73 107 10 117 Net assets 97 64 2 163 122 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 21.
Equity accounted investments continued Statement of financial position At 31 March 2015 Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m m Assets Non-current assets 156 38 54 1 249 Cash and cash equivalents 146 2 15 163 Other current assets 88 164 11 1 264 390 204 80 2 676 Liabilities Other non-current liabilities 10 7 17 Current borrowings 8 54 62 Other current liabilities 38 63 15 116 56 124 15 195 Net assets 334 80 65 2 481 Reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the Groups interest in joint ventures.
Reconciliation of summarised financial information Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m m Opening net assets at 1 April 2015 334 80 65 2 481 Profit for the year from total operations 9 43 8 60 Disposal 190 190 Other comprehensive expense income related to assets and liabilities excluding goodwill 17 9 2 24 Dividends 136 17 11 164 Closing net assets at 31 March 2016 97 64 2 163 Interest in joint venture % 50% 50% 50% 50% Interest in joint venture at share 49 32 1 82 Goodwill at 1 April 2015 82 82 Goodwill disposed 82 82 Goodwill at 31 March 2016 Carrying value at 31 March 2016 49 32 1 82 Reconciliation of summarised financial information Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m m Opening net assets at 1 April 2014 307 90 48 6 451 Profit for the year from total operations 66 22 10 98 Other comprehensive expense income related to assets and liabilities excluding goodwill 39 4 7 36 Dividends 28 4 32 Closing net assets at 31 March 2015 334 80 65 2 481 Interest in joint venture % 50% 50% 50% 50% Interest in joint venture at share 167 40 33 1 241 Goodwill at 1 April 2014 82 82 Goodwill at 31 March 2015 82 82 Carrying value at 31 March 2015 249 40 33 1 323 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 123 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
Share capital and share premium Ordinary Share share capital premium Total m m m At 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 117 406 523 Ordinary shares carry the right to participate in dividends and each share entitles the holder to one vote on matters requiring shareholder approval.
Allotted, called up and fully paid equity share capital 2016 2015 Number of Cost Number of Cost shares m shares m At 1 April 468 223 975 117 468 202 883 117 Allotted under share option schemes 11 969 21 092 At 31 March 468 235 944 117 468 223 975 117 Own shares Own shares represent the Companys ordinary shares that are acquired to meet the Groups expected obligations under share-based incentive arrangements see Note 31.
Own shares are held either by the Company in treasury or by an Employee Benefit Trust EBT that was established by the Company.
Movements in own shares held were as follows: 2016 2015 Number of Cost Number of Cost shares m shares m At 1 April 5 018 632 37 4 706 429 37 Purchased in the market: into treasury 710 551 4 into the EBT 1 151 484 7 1 315 000 8 Transferred to employees: from treasury 325 950 2 1 628 492 11 from the EBT 1 682 224 14 84 856 1 At 31 March 4 161 942 28 5 018 632 37 At 31 March 2016 At 31 March 2015 Market value % of outstanding Market value % of outstanding Shares m share capital Shares m share capital Treasury shares 1 803 472 10 0.4 2 129 422 13 0.5 Shares held in the EBT 2 358 470 14 0.5 2 889 210 17 0.6 Total 4 161 942 24 0.9 5 018 632 30 1.1 124 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 23.
Other reserves Currency Hedging translation Other reserve reserve reserves Total m m m m At 31 March 2014 1 40 97 58 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedges: fair value losses in the year 5 5 reclassified and reported in the income statement in the year 2 2 tax effect of the above movements 2 2 Fair value gain on revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 2 2 Currency translation differences: gain on currency translation of foreign operations 56 56 fair value loss on net investment hedges 32 32 Share of other comprehensive expenses of joint ventures 18 18 At 31 March 2015 4 34 99 61 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedges: fair value losses in the year reclassified and reported in the income statement in the year 2 2 tax effect of the above movements Loss on revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets Currency translation differences: gain on currency translation of foreign operations 60 60 fair value loss on net investment hedges 18 18 Share of other comprehensive expenses of joint ventures 12 12 Items transferred to income upon disposal of joint ventures 34 34 At 31 March 2016 2 30 99 127 24.
Trade and other payables At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Current payables Trade payables 218 228 Social security 5 2 Accruals and deferred income 98 73 Other payables 16 13 Total 337 316 The above amounts do not include non-current other payables of 13 million 2015 13 million.
Borrowings Non-current borrowings At 31 March 2016 2015 m m 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2 2 Industrial Revenue Bonds 20162036 US$77,655,000 49 52 US Private Placement 20232027 US$400,000,000 277 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2016 US$250,000,000 173 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 215 218 Total 543 445 Other bank loans 2 2 Total 2 2 Other borrowings Obligations under finance leases 11 16 Total 11 16 Total non-current borrowings 556 463 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 125 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Borrowings continued Current borrowings At 31 March 2016 2015 m m US commercial paper 252 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2016 US$250,000,000 175 Industrial Revenue Bonds 20162036 US$77,655,000 5 Short-term loans 14 11 Unsecured bank overdrafts 5 Loans from joint ventures 40 Total 199 303 Other borrowings Obligations under finance leases 1 2 Total current borrowings 200 305 Included within borrowings are 206 million 2015 204 million of borrowings subject to fair value hedges, the amortised cost of which has been increased by 17 million 2015 22 million in the tables above.
Secured borrowings Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Taking into account the Groups interest rate and cross currency swap contracts, the effective interest rates of its borrowings are as follows: Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 $25m 3.83% US Private Placement Notes 2023 3.8% $180m 4.06% US Private Placement Notes 2025 4.1% $100m 4.16% US Private Placement Notes 2027 4.2% $95m US Private Placement FRN 2023 2.0% 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 6.5% 6.5% Industrial Revenue Bonds 20162036 US$77,655,000 0.1% 0.1% 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2016 US$250,000,000 4.2% 4.1% 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 4.7% 4.4% Short-term loans and overdrafts Current short-term loans mature within the next 12 months and overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Both short-term loans and bank overdrafts are arranged at floating rates of interest and expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Credit facilities and arrangements Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC holds a US$800 million five-year committed multi-currency club facility with a core of highlyrated banks that was refinanced in July 2014, extended in July 2015 and matures in July 2020.
At 31 March 2016, this committed facility remains undrawn.
The facility has a value of 556 million 2015 539 million.
This facility incurs commitment fees at market rates prevailing when the facility was arranged.
The facility may only be withdrawn in the event of specified events of default.
In addition, the Group has substantial uncommitted facilities.
Finance lease commitments Amounts payable under finance lease commitments are as follows: At 31 March 2016 2015 Present value of Present value of Minimum lease minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments m m m m Within one year 1 1 4 2 Between one and five years 8 7 10 9 After five years 6 4 9 7 Total 15 12 23 18 Less future finance charges 3 5 Present value of minimum lease payments 12 18 126 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 26.
Change in working capital Continuing operations Year ended 31 March # Restated 2016 2015 m m Increase decrease in inventories 8 6 Decrease increase in receivables 14 9 Increase in payables 1 1 Decrease in derivative financial instruments excluding debt-related derivatives 13 13 Increase decrease in provisions for other liabilities and charges 4 3 Change in working capital 24 8 # Prior year restated to reflect discontinued operations see Note 3.
Net debt Reconciliation of the increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents to the movement in net debt: Year ended 31 March Restated 2016 2015 m m Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 108 170 Net decrease in borrowings 29 43 Decrease increase in net debt resulting from cash flows 137 127 Fair value and other movements 1 1 Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 5 Currency translation differences 15 39 Decrease increase in net debt in the year 121 170 Net debt at beginning of year 555 385 Net debt at end of year 434 555 Movements in the Groups net debt are as follows: Borrowings and finance leases Cash and cash Debt related equivalents Current Non-current derivatives Total m m m m m At 1 April 2014 Restated 346 323 437 29 385 Increase decrease resulting from cash flows 170 40 3 127 Fair value and other movements 6 1 4 1 Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 4 1 5 Currency translation differences 19 24 27 7 39 At 31 March 2015 Restated 195 305 463 18 555 Decrease increase resulting from cash flows 108 282 253 137 Fair value and other movements 2 3 1 Reclassification 169 169 Currency translation differences 14 8 11 10 15 At 31 March 2016 317 200 556 5 434 Net debt is denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March Restated 2016 2015 m m Euro 41 55 US dollar 442 512 Sterling 56 5 Other 7 17 Total 434 555 Prior year adjusted measures restated for the adoption of equity accounting see Note 1.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 127 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Derivatives and hedge accounting At 31 March 2016 At 31 March 2015 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Non-current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile Currency swaps 5 19 9 15 Interest rate swaps 16 21 21 19 30 15 Current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile Interest rate swaps 3 3 3 3 Total derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile 24 19 33 15 Other current derivative financial instruments Forward foreign exchange contracts 1 1 Commodity pricing contracts: cash flow hedges 3 5 held for trading 40 18 58 20 Total other derivative financial instruments 40 22 59 25 Total derivative financial instruments 64 41 92 40 Presented in the statement of financial position as follows: Non-current derivative financial instruments 21 19 30 15 Current derivative financial instruments 43 22 62 25 64 41 92 40 All hedges are considered to be highly effective, the ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss in the current and prior periods is not material.
Cash flow hedges The Group employs forward foreign exchange contracts and commodity pricing contracts to hedge cash flow risk associated with forecast transactions.
The notional amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts are as follows: At 31 March 2016 2015 m m US dollar 3 29 Singapore dollar 1 20 Brazilian real 1 7 Euro 6 4 South African rand 11 2 Other 1 1 Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity Note 23 on forward foreign exchange and commodity pricing contracts at 31 March 2016 are expected to be reclassified to the income statement at various future dates.
Fair value hedges The Group employs interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate risks associated with its borrowings.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts applied in fair value hedging relationships as of 31 March 2016 were 206million 2015 204 million.
Net investment hedges The Group employs currency swap contracts to hedge the currency risk associated with its net investments in subsidiaries located primarily in the US and Europe.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts applied in net investment hedging relationships as of 31 March 2016 were 161million 2015 154million.
Within net investment hedging gains losses, a fair value loss of 8million 2015 7 million loss on translation of the currency swap contracts to pounds sterling at the period-end date was recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity Note 23.
In addition, at 31 March 2016, of the Groups liabilities, a total of 312million 2015 373 million are designated as hedges of the net investments in foreign operations.
128 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management Financial instruments by category Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015.
At 31 March 2016 Amortised Derivatives Derivatives Available-forTotal cost in a hedging held for sale financial carrying Fair cash relationship trading assets value value Notes m m m m m m 18 Available-for-sale financial assets 23 23 23 17 Trade and other receivables 285 285 285 16 Cash and cash equivalents 317 317 317 28 Derivative financial instruments assets 24 40 64 64 25 Borrowings 756 756 775 28 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 23 18 41 41 24 Trade and other payables 345 345 345 Total 499 1 22 23 453 472 At 31 March 2015 AvailableDerivatives Derivatives for-sale Total Amortised in a hedging held for and other carrying Fair cost cash relationship trading financial assets value value Notes m m m m m m 18 Available-for-sale financial assets 31 31 31 Other financial assets 2 2 2 17 Trade and other receivables 281 281 281 16 Cash and cash equivalents 195 195 195 28 Derivative financial instruments assets 34 58 92 92 25 Borrowings 768 768 792 28 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 20 20 40 40 24 Trade and other payables 327 327 327 Total 619 14 38 33 534 558 Trade and other receivables presented above excludes 17million 2015 11million relating to prepayments.
Trade and other payables presented above excludes 5million 2015 2million relating to social security.
The fair value of borrowings has been determined using either quoted market prices, broker dealer quotations or discounted cash flow analysis.
Fair value hierarchy The following tables illustrate the Groups net financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value at 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 refer to Note 2 for a description of the three different levels of fair value measurement : At 31 March 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 18 23 23 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 5 5 interest rate swaps 28 19 19 commodity pricing contracts 28 1 13 26 40 Assets at fair value 1 37 49 87 Liabilities at fair value Other financial liability within other payables 2 2 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 19 19 forward foreign exchange contracts 28 1 1 commodity pricing contracts 28 13 5 3 21 Liabilities at fair value 13 25 5 43 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 129 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued At 31 March 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 18 31 31 Other financial assets 2 2 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 9 9 interest rate swaps 28 24 24 forward foreign exchange contracts 28 1 1 commodity pricing contracts 28 2 19 37 58 Assets at fair value 4 53 68 125 Liabilities at fair value Other financial liability within other payables 24 2 2 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 15 15 interest rate swaps 28 commodity pricing contracts 28 12 7 6 25 Liabilities at fair value 12 22 8 42 The following table shows the methodology used to measure Level 3 fair values: Financial instruments measured at fair value Sensitivity of the fair value measurement in reasonable Type Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs changes to inputs Written commodity contract Based on the Groups own Price of co-product positions 10% increase decrease in the assessment of the commodity, refer to fair value measurement price of the co-products and supply and demand, as well as section in Note 2. commodity contracts would expected pricing.
result in a net increase decrease in fair value of 15 million in respect of Level 3 financial instruments.
The full impact on the Groups income statement is described within the price risk management section.
In addition to the above, the Groups available-for-sale financial assets are sensitive to a number of market and non-market factors.
The following table reconciles the movement in the Groups net financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy: Commodity Commodity pricing pricing contracts contracts Available-forOther financial assets liabilities sale assets liability Total m m m m m At 1 April 2014 42 21 28 49 Total gains losses : in operating profit 37 6 2 29 in other comprehensive income 5 5 Purchases 2 2 Settlements 42 21 2 23 At 31 March 2015 37 6 31 2 60 Total gains losses : in operating profit 21 3 6 24 Purchases 4 4 Settlements 32 6 18 44 At 31 March 2016 26 3 23 2 44 130 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Management of financial risk The key financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks, which include interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and certain commodity price risks.
The Board regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments to manage these risks and sets overall risk limits.
The derivative financial instruments approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC to manage financial risks include swaps, both interest rate and currency, swaptions, caps, forward rate agreements, foreign exchange and commodity forward contracts and options, and commodity futures.
The Chief Financial Officer retains the overall responsibility for management of financial risk for the Group.
Most of the Groups financing, interest rate and foreign exchange risk are managed through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, whose operations are directed by its board.
Group interest rate and currency exposures are concentrated either in the treasury company or in appropriate holding companies through market-related transactions with Group subsidiaries.
Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC arranges funding and manages interest rate, foreign exchange and bank counterparty risks within limits approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Commodity price risks are managed through divisional commodity trading functions in the US and Europe.
These functions are controlled by divisional management who are responsible for ratifying general strategy and overseeing performance on a monthly basis.
The performance of the commodity trading function is monitored against its ability to match the Groups needs for raw materials with purchase contracts, as well as the Groups output of co-products with sales contracts.
Commodity price contracts are categorised as being held either for trading or for hedging price exposures.
The Group applies a limited level of hedge accounting to its economic price exposure hedges.
Market risks Foreign exchange management The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from commercial transactions transaction exposure, and from recognised assets, liabilities and investments in foreign operations translation exposure.
Transaction exposure The Groups policy requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional currency exposures against their functional currency once the transaction is committed or highly probable, mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The amounts deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions only when the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Translation exposure The Group manages the foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations, particularly in the US and Europe, by borrowing principally in US dollars, which provide a partial match for the Groups major foreign currency assets.
The Group also manages some of its foreign exchange exposure to net investments in foreign operations through the use of currency swap contracts and other liabilities.
The amount deferred in equity from the hedging instruments designated as net investment hedges is offset against the foreign currency translation effect of the net investment in foreign operations, and is released to the income statement upon disposal of those investments.
The following table illustrates only the Groups sensitivity to the fluctuation of the major currencies on its income statement and financial assets and liabilities: At 31 March 2016 At 31 March 2015 Income Income statement - Equity - statement - Equity - m m m m Sterling US dollar 10% change 1 42 1 47 Sterling euro 10% change 5 3 5 Interest rate management The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally from changes in US dollar, sterling and euro interest rates.
This risk is managed by fixing or capping portions of debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve a target level of fixed floating rate net debt, which aims to optimise net finance expense and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
The Groups policy is that between 30% and 75% of Group net debt is fixed for more than one year and that no interest rates are fixed for more than 12 years.
At 31 March 2016, the longest term of any fixed rate debt held by the Group was until October 2027 2015 November 2019.
The proportion of net debt managed by the Groups treasury function at 31 March 2016 that was fixed or capped for more than one year was 60% 2015 31%.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
The impact is calculated with reference to the gross debt and cash held as at 31 March 2016 assuming that other variables remain unchanged.
As at 31 March 2016, if interest rates increase by 100 basis points, Group profit before tax will decrease by 1million 2015 3million.
If interest rates decrease by 100 basis points, or less where applicable, Group profit before tax will increase by 1million 2015 2 million increase.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 131 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Price risk management The Group participates mainly in four markets: food and beverage: industrial ingredients: pharmaceutical and personal care: and animal feed.
Food and beverage and industrial ingredients are the most significant.
All ingredients are produced from renewable crops, predominantly corn.
The Group is exposed to movements in the future prices of commodities in those domestic and international markets where the Group buys and sells corn and related co-products and energy for production.
Commodity futures, forwards and options are used where available to hedge inventories and the costs of raw materials for unpriced and prospective contracts not covered by forward product sales.
Some of the contracts are used to hedge co-product pricing, for which there is no active market.
The pricing is established by the Group, based on a number of inputs, as discussed on page 94.
Due to the seasonality of corn production, at certain points in time throughout the year, the exposure to commodity pricing contracts may be higher.
As at 31 March 2016, a 50% increase decrease in the price of corn will result in a decrease increase to the income statement of nil 2015 1 million and related decrease increase in equity of 1 million 2015 nil.
Credit risk management Counterparty credit risk arises from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures inherent within the Groups outstanding receivables.
The Group manages credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts substantially with investment grade authorised counterparties which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions based on the long-term credit ratings of Standard & Poors and Moodys typically single A long-term credit ratings or higher.
Trading limits assigned to commercial customers are based on ratings from Dun & Bradstreet and Credit Risk Monitor.
In cases where published financial ratings are not available or inconclusive, credit application, reference checking, and obtaining of customers financial information such as liquidity and turnover ratio, are required to evaluate customers credit worthiness.
Analysis of maximum credit exposure Counterparties positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and there are no significant concentrations of credit risks.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk at the year-end date is as follows: At 31 March 2016 2015 Notes m m Cash and cash equivalents 16 317 195 Trade and other receivables 17 285 281 Derivative financial instruments assets 28 64 92 Other financial assets 2 Available-for-sale financial assets 18 23 31 The Groups trade receivables are short term in nature and largely comprise amounts receivable from business customers.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited, with our customer base including large, unrelated and internationally dispersed customers.
Analysis of amounts set-off The Group does not offset financial assets and liabilities on its statement of financial position as the Group has no intention to net settle, except as described below.
Derivative assets and liabilities of 19 million 2015 15million could be offset under an enforceable master netting agreement.
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the statement of financial position but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to derivative transactions under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA agreements where each party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
132 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Liquidity risk management The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum flexibility in meeting changing business needs, by maintaining access to a wide range of funding sources, including capital markets and bank borrowings.
Capital market issues outstanding at 31 March 2016 are listed in Note 25.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities to provide liquidity back-up for the Groups working capital requirements.
The Group has a core committed bank facility of US$800 million which was refinanced in July 2014 and extended in July 2015 until July 2020.
This facility is unsecured and contains common financial covenants for the Group and its subsidiary companies that the pre-exceptional and amortisation interest cover ratio should not be less than 2.5 times and the multiple of net debt to EBITDA, as defined in our financial covenants, should not be greater than 3.5 times.
The Group intends to refinance the core committed bank facility no later than 12 months prior to the facilitys maturity in July 2020.
The Group monitors compliance against all its financial obligations and it is Group policy to manage the consolidated statement of financial position so as to operate well within these covenanted restrictions.
In both the current and comparative reporting period, the Group complied with its financial covenants at all measurement points.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are raised through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, and are then on-lent to the business units on an arms length basis.
Current Group policy is to ensure that, after subtracting the total of undrawn committed facilities, no more than 10% of gross debt matures within 12 months and at least 35% matures in more than 2.5 years.
At 31 March 2016, after subtracting total undrawn committed facilities, there was nodebt maturing within 12 months 2015 none and none maturing within 2.5 years 2015 24%.
The average maturity of the Groups gross debt was 6.6 years 2015 4.2 years.
At the year end, the Group held cash and cash equivalents of 317million 2015 195million and had committed undrawn facilities of 556 million 2015 539 million.
These resources are maintained to provide liquidity back-up and to meet the projected maximum cash outflow from debt repayment, capital expenditure and seasonal working capital needs foreseen for at least a year into the future at any one time.
The table below analyses the undiscounted cash flows related to the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities.
At 31 March 2016 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 200 208 334 Interest on borrowings 29 82 55 Trade and other payables 337 13 Derivative contracts: receipts 77 197 payments 71 198 Commodity contracts 15 1 At 31 March 2015 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 307 385 57 Interest on borrowings 25 60 1 Trade and other payables 316 13 Derivative contracts: receipts 67 217 payments 60 206 Commodity contracts 8 Included in borrowings are 2,394,000 of 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Only one years worth of interest payable on these shares is included in the less than one year category.
Derivative contracts include currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
Commodity pricing contracts included above represent options and futures.
Financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are translated to pounds sterling using year-end exchange rates.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 133 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Capital risk management The Groups primary objectives in managing its capital are to safeguard the business as a going concern: to maintain the dividend policy: to maintain sufficient financial flexibility to undertake its investment plans and to retain, as a minimum, an investment grade credit rating which enables access to debt capital markets.
The Groups financial profile and level of financial risk is assessed on a regular basis in the light of changes to the economic conditions, business environment, the Groups business profile and the risk characteristics of its businesses.
Tate & Lyle has contractual relationships with Moodys and Standard & Poors S&P for the provision of credit ratings, and it is the Groups policy to keep them informed of all major developments.
At 31 March 2016, the long-term credit rating from Moodys was Baa2 stable outlook and from S&P was BBB stable outlook.
The Group is committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings.
The Group regards its total capital as follows: At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Net debt 434 555 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 1 028 935 Total capital 1 462 1 490 The Board has set two ongoing key performance indicators KPIs to measure the Groups financial strength.
The target levels for these financial KPIs are that the ratio of net debt EBITDA should not exceed two times and interest cover should exceed five times.
These ratios are calculated on the same basis as the external financial covenants noted above.
The ratios for these KPIs for the financial years ended 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 are: 2016 2015 Times Times Net debt EBITDA 1.2 1.3 Interest cover 10.7 10.7 30.
Retirement benefit obligations a Plan information i Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans, principally in the UK and the US.
Generally, the pension benefits provided under these plans are determined based on the pensionable salary and period of pensionable service of the individual members.
Most of the plans are funded and the plan assets held separately from those of the Group in funds that are under the control of trustees.
The extent of the powers of the trustees, in particular in respect of funding and investment strategy, varies and is dependent on local regulations and the rules of each plan.
Payments made by the Group to the plans principally comprise funding contributions agreed with the trustees that are determined in accordance with local regulations to ensure that appropriate funding levels are maintained and funding deficits are eliminated over a reasonable period of time.
All of the significant defined benefit pension plans operated by the Group are closed to new entrants and most are closed to future accrual.
The Group operates defined contribution pension plans in a number of countries.
Contributions payable by the Group to these plans during the year amounted to 4million 2015 5 million.
ii Other benefits The Groups subsidiaries in the US provide unfunded retirement medical plans to the majority of their employees.
Such plans provide financial assistance in meeting various costs including medical, dental and prescription drugs.
Employees are required to contribute to the cost of benefits received under the plans.
The Group meets the remaining costs of providing these benefits in the period in which they are incurred.
134 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued b Movement in net defined benefit liability asset i Analysis of net defined benefit liability At 31 March 2016 At 31 March 2015 Medical Medical Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total m m m m m m Benefit obligations: Funded plans 1 513 1 513 1 636 1 636 Unfunded plans 55 66 121 56 69 125 1 568 66 1 634 1 692 69 1 761 Fair value of plan assets 1 426 1 426 1 534 1 534 Net deficit 142 66 208 158 69 227 Presented in the statement of financial position: Retirement benefit surplus 45 45 25 25 Retirement benefit deficit 187 66 253 183 69 252 142 66 208 158 69 227 Net defined benefit liability reconciliation: Medical Pensions benefits Total m m m At 1 April 2014 166 54 220 Year ended 31 March 2015 net increase in the benefit obligation 221 15 236 net increase in the fair value of plan assets 229 229 At 31 March 2015 158 69 227 Year ended 31 March 2016 net decrease in the benefit obligation 124 3 127 net decrease in the fair value of plan assets 108 108 At 31 March 2016 142 66 208 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 135 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued ii Analysis of movements in the benefit obligation Pension benefits Medical UK US Other Total benefits Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2014 1 013 445 13 1 471 54 1 525 Year ended 31 March 2015 Service cost current 1 2 3 1 4 Service cost credit past 1 1 2 1 Plan administration costs 3 3 3 Interest on benefit obligation 41 19 60 2 62 Actuarial losses gains: changes in financial assumptions 115 35 150 5 155 changes in demographic assumptions 1 41 42 4 46 experience against assumptions 15 3 18 3 15 Net actuarial loss 101 73 174 12 186 Employees contributions Benefits paid 51 25 76 4 80 Currency translation differences 2 54 56 6 62 Increase in the benefit obligation 96 123 2 221 15 236 At 31 March 2015 1 109 568 15 1 692 69 1 761 Year ended 31 March 2016 Service cost current 1 1 1 2 Service credit past 3 3 Plan administration costs 3 3 3 Interest on benefit obligation 36 20 56 2 58 Actuarial gains: changes in financial assumptions 21 21 1 22 changes in demographic assumptions 7 7 1 8 experience against assumptions 13 2 15 15 Net actuarial gain 34 9 43 2 45 Employees contributions Benefits paid 50 28 78 4 82 Settlement loss buy-out transaction 2 2 2 Settlements 81 81 81 Currency translation differences 16 16 3 19 Decrease in the benefit obligation 124 124 3 127 At 31 March 2016 985 568 15 1 568 66 1 634 At 31 March 2016, the benefits expected to be paid by the plans over the next ten years were as follows: Pensions benefits Medical UK US Other Total benefits Total m m m m m m Benefit payments: within 12 months 46 29 75 4 79 between 1 to 2 years 47 30 77 4 81 between 3 to 5 years 144 94 238 13 251 between 6 to 10 years 254 165 419 21 440 Total expected benefit payments for the next ten years 491 318 809 42 851 At 31 March 2016, the weighted average duration of the significant defined benefit obligations was as follows: Duration Pension plans: UK 18 years US 13 years Medical benefits 10 years 136 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Assumptions For accounting purposes, the benefit obligation of each plan has been calculated in accordance with IAS 19 based on data gathered for the most recent actuarial valuation and by applying assumptions made by the Group on the advice of independent actuaries.
The principal assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligation were as follows: At 31 March 2016 UK US Inflation rate 2.0% 3.0% 2.5% Expected rate of salary increases n a 3.5% Expected rate of pension increases: deferred pensions 2.0% n a pensions in payment 2.8% n a Discount rate 3.4% 3.8% At 31 March 2015 UK US Inflation rate 2.0% 3.0% 2.5% Expected rate of salary increases n a 3.5% Expected rate of pension increases: deferred pensions 2.0% n a pensions in payment 2.8% n a Discount rate 3.3% 3.8% Assumptions regarding future mortality rates of members of the Groups pension plans are based on published statistics and take into account the profile of the plan members.
On this basis, the average life expectancies assumed for members of the plans are as follows: At 31 March 2016 At 31 March 2015 UK US UK US Male aged 65 now 23 years 21 years 23 years 22 years Male aged 65 in 20 years time 26 years 23 years 26 years 23 years Female aged 65 now 24 years 23 years 24 years 24 years Female aged 65 in 20 years time 27 years 25 years 27 years 25 years Shorter longevity assumptions are used for members who retire on grounds of ill health.
Medical benefits Principal assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligation are medical cost inflation and the discount rate applied to the expected benefit payments.
Management assumed medical cost inflation at 6.0% per annum 2015 6.0%, grading down to 5% by 2018, and used a discount rate of 3.6% 2015 3.5%.
At 31 March 2016, the sensitivity of the net deficit on the plans to changes in the principal assumptions was as follows assuming in each case that the other assumptions are unchanged : Increase decrease in obligation Change in Increase in Decrease in assumptions - assumption assumption Pension plans Inflation rate 50 bp 66 45 Life expectancy 1 year 71 71 Discount rate 100 bp 224 278 Medical benefits Medical cost inflation 50 bp 2 2 Discount rate 100 bp 6 7 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 137 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued iii Analysis of movements in the plan assets UK US Total m m m At 1 April 2014 974 331 1 305 Year ended 31 March 2015 Interest on plan assets 40 14 54 Actual return higher than interest on plan assets 129 32 161 Employers contributions 29 19 48 Employees contributions Benefits paid 51 25 76 Currency translation differences 1 41 42 Increase in fair value of plan assets 148 81 229 At 31 March 2015 1 122 412 1 534 Year ended 31 March 2016 Interest on plan assets 37 15 52 Actual return lower than interest on plan assets 35 17 52 Employers contributions including 2 million related to buy-out transaction 25 13 38 Benefits paid 50 28 78 Settlements 81 81 Currency translation differences 13 13 Decrease in fair value of plan assets 104 4 108 At 31 March 2016 1 018 408 1 426 Analysis of plan assets At 31 March 2016 UK US Total m m m Equities quoted 285 101 386 Corporate bonds quoted 124 234 358 Government bonds quoted 312 49 361 Property unquoted 20 20 Insurance policies unquoted 266 4 270 Other assets unquoted 31 31 1 018 408 1 426 At 31 March 2015 UK US Total m m m Equities quoted 291 101 392 Corporate bonds quoted 125 230 355 Government bonds quoted 250 57 307 Property unquoted 26 21 47 Insurance policies unquoted 364 3 367 Other assets unquoted 66 66 1 122 412 1 534 The Group also paid an additional 4 million 2015 4 million to the US unfunded retirement medical plans to meet the cost of providing the benefits in the financial year.
Plan assets do not include any direct investments in securities issued by the Group or any property occupied by or other assets used by the Group.
Assets are classified as quoted only if they have a quoted market price in an active market as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
All other assets are classified as unquoted.
138 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued c Mitigation of risk The defined benefit pension plans expose the Group to actuarial risks such as interest rate, longevity, inflation and investment risk.
The Group encourages the trustees of the plans to adopt an investment policy that seeks to mitigate these risks, which involves investing a significant proportion of the plan assets in liability-driven investment portfolios that mitigate interest rate, inflation and investment risks.
The Group seeks to ensure that, as far as is practicable, the investment portfolios of the funded plans are invested in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities and in currencies that match the expected future benefit payments as they fall due.
In the UK, interest rate derivatives are used to achieve close matching where matching fixed-interest securities are not available in the market.
Most of the inflation risk for the Group arises in the UK since deferred pensions and pensions in payment in the US do not attract inflation increases.
Inflation risk is mitigated by holding index-linked government bonds and corporate bonds and, in the UK, inflation derivatives.
At 31 March 2016, 270million 2015 367million of the benefit obligation was matched by qualifying insurance policies that also mitigate longevity risk.
The decrease reflects the payment made to a third party provider in relation to the Amylum UK Pension Scheme to buy out the Groups obligations see Note 8.
The plans also maintain a portfolio of return-seeking investments, principally in the form of equities and property.
d Funding of the plans As required by local regulations, actuarial valuations of the US pension plans are carried out each year and those of the UK pension plans are carried out at least every three years.
Following the actuarial valuation at 31 March 2013 of the Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme Scheme, core funding contributions remain at 12 million per year.
In 2014, a new secured funding account was established where supplementary contributions of 6 million per year will be made up until March 2019, payable to the Trustee on certain triggering events such as under performance of the Schemes investments or a deterioration in the strength of the Groups financial covenant.
The first two annual payments amounting to 12 million were credited to the secured funding account upon its establishment in October 2014 and were accounted for as additional contributions to the Scheme that year.
An actuarial valuation of the Amylum UK Pension Scheme was last carried out at 30 June 2011.
The buy-out of the Amylum UK pension scheme was concluded in the year with a final settlement charge of 2 million included in discontinued operations.
Total payments to UK Schemes of 25 million also comprised investment and administration fees of 4 million and contributions to a small legacy pension scheme totalling 1 million.
During the year ending 31 March 2017, the Group expects to contribute approximately 37 million to its defined benefit pension plans and to pay approximately 4 million in relation to retirement medical benefits.
Share-based payments The Company operates share-based incentive arrangements for the executive directors, senior executives and other eligible employees under which awards and options are granted over the Companys ordinary shares.
All of the arrangements under which awards and options were outstanding during the 2016 and 2015 financial years are classified as equity-settled.
During the year, the compensation expense recognised in profit or loss in respect of share-based incentives was 9million 2015 nil.
The following arrangements existed during the period: a Performance Share Plan The Groups principal ongoing share-based incentive arrangement is the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Participation in the PSP is restricted to the executive directors and other senior executives.
Awards made under the PSP normally vest provided the participant remains in the Groups employment during the performance period and the Group achieves earnings per share EPS and return on capital employed ROCE targets.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the compound annual growth rate of the Groups adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations reaching specified levels over the performance period.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the Groups adjusted ROCE from continuing operations reaching specified levels at the end of the performance period.
The performance period is the period of three financial years beginning with the financial year in which the award is granted.
b Group Bonus Plan Deferred Element Bonuses earned under the Group Bonus Plan are normally paid in cash up to 100% of the base salary of the participating executive.
Any excess above 100% of base salary is paid in the form of deferred shares that are released after two years subject to the executive remaining in the Groups employment.
During the vesting period, payments in lieu of dividends are made in relation to the deferred shares.
c Sharesave Plan Options are granted from time to time under the Companys Sharesave Plan, which is open to all employees in the UK.
It offers eligible employees the option to buy shares in the Company after a period of three or five years funded from the proceeds of a savings contract to which they contribute on a monthly basis.
d Restricted Share Awards The Company has made restricted share awards to a number of eligible employees.
Awards made normally vest provided the participant remains in the Groups employment during the performance period and other conditions, specific to the individual awards, are met.
e Conditional Share Award The Company, during the year, has made a Conditional Share Award CSA to eligible employees.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on an adjusted Group profit after tax on continuing operations for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the Groups adjusted ROCE from continuing operations as at 31 March 2016.
The award vests as soon as practicable after 31 March 2016, however, some employees are subject to an additional retention period ending 31 March 2017.
Further information for these awards made in relation to executive directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 79.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 139 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Share-based payments continued Movements in the year Movements in the awards outstanding during the year were as follows: 2016 2015 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Awards price Awards price number pence number pence Outstanding at 1 April 9 895 482 10p 9 858 384 10p Granted 5 264 964 8p 3 946 005 17p Exercised 2 020 143 3p 1 734 440 24p Lapsed 2 532 342 10p 2 174 467 12p Outstanding at 31 March 10 607 961 10p 9 895 482 10p Exercisable at 31 March 548 530 2 093 156 The weighted average market price of the Companys ordinary shares on the dates on which awards were exercised during the year was 529p 2015 670p.
Awards granted in the year During the year, PSP awards were granted over 3,502,180 shares 2015 2,878,550 shares, Restricted Share Awards were granted over 166,367 shares 2015 938,914, Conditional Share Awards were granted over 1,515,000 shares 2015 nil and Sharesave options were granted over 81,417 shares 2015 128,541 shares.
The compensation expense recognised in relation to these awards is based on the fair value of the awards at their respective grant dates.
The weighted average fair values of the awards granted during the year and the principal assumptions made in measuring those fair values were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2015 PSP Sharesave CSA PSP Sharesave CSA Fair value at grant date 540p 119p 467p 598p 127p Principal assumptions: Share price on grant date 591p 608p 504p 660p 605p Expected life of the awards 3 years 3.3 5.3 years 0.9 1.9 years 3 years 3.3 5.3 years Risk-free interest rate 1.01% 1.40% 1.2% 1.95% Dividend yield on the Companys shares 4.61% 4.74% 5.56% 4.2% 3.4% Volatility of the Companys shares n a 25% n a n a 25% The fair value of the awards was measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing formula, taking into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Companys shares over the expected life of the awards.
No deferred shares were issued under the Group Bonus Plan during this, or the prior year.
Awards outstanding at the end of the year The range of exercise prices and the weighted average remaining contractual life of awards outstanding at the end of the year were as follows: At 31 March 2016 At 31 March 2015 Weighted Weighted average average contractual contractual Awards life Awards life Exercise price number months number months Nil 10 396 563 45.4 9 705 477 49.3 400p to 799p 211 398 35.3 190 005 38.7 Total 10 607 961 45.2 9 895 482 49.1 140 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 32.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions Insurance Restructuring provisions and closure Other and reserves provisions provisions Total m m m m At 1 April 2015 7 1 13 21 Provided in the year 3 13 6 22 Released in the year 1 1 Utilised in the year 9 9 Exchange and other movements 2 1 3 At 31 March 2016 12 14 10 36 At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Provisions are expected to be utilised as follows: within one year 23 13 after more than one year 13 8 Total 36 21 Provisions primarily relate to Group legal matters and previously disposed businesses, restructuring and closure provisions relating to restructuring within the Group and insurance funds representing amounts provided by the Groups captive insurance subsidiary in respect of the expected level of insurance claims.
All provisions are expected to be utilised within five years.
Contingent liabilities Passaic River As noted in the Statement of Half Year Results released on 5 November 2015, the Group is subject to a legal case arising from the notification in 2007 by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency USEPA that Tate & Lyle, along with approximately 70 others, is a potentially responsible party PRP for a 17-mile section of the northern New Jersey Passaic River, a major Superfund Site.
The Groups involvement derives from a former Staley Chemical Company plant in Kearny, New Jersey owned by A E Staley until 1978, around ten years prior to the acquisition of Staley by Tate & Lyle, which is alleged to have generated hazardous waste which made its way to the Passaic River.
At 5 November 2015, since the USEPA had not issued its final record of decision, the Group could not estimate a reasonably possible range of loss in relation to this case.
The ROD addresses the clean-up for the lower 8.3 miles of the river section in question and sets a total assessment of expected costs at $1.38 billion.
Based on the current status of the group of PRPs, Tate & Lyles potential share of this cost, should it ultimately be held responsible, is around 0.6%.
Whilst Tate & Lyle will continue to vigorously defend itself in this matter, in light of the publication of the ROD, the Group has taken an exceptional charge of 6million in its financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 in respect of this matter included in other provisions.
Since it cannot estimate a reasonably possible range of loss in respect of the remaining nine-mile section of the river, the Group has not recognised a provision in this regard.
Other claims The Group is subject to claims and litigation generally arising in the ordinary course of its business, some of which are for substantial amounts.
All such actions are strenuously defended but provision is made for liabilities that are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
While there is always uncertainty as to the outcome of any claim or litigation, it is not expected that claims and litigation existing at 31 March 2016 will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
Sale of EU Sugars and American Sugar Association Claim The contingent liabilities previously reported relating to both the sale of EU Sugars and the American Sugar Association claim were settled in the year at 18million and 9million respectively.
For more information, see Note 7.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 141 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Commitments Capital commitments At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Commitments for the purchase of intangible assets 1 4 Commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment 47 71 Total 48 75 Operating lease arrangements Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its land, buildings, plant and equipment.
Certain operating lease agreements allow for renewal at the end of the original term at the option of the Group.
At the period-end date, the Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due as follows: At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Within one year 28 20 Between one year and five years 106 70 After five years 169 104 Total 303 194 34.
Acquisitions and disposals Eaststarch re-alignment On 31 October 2015, the Group completed the re-alignment of its Eaststarch joint venture with Archer Daniels Midland Inc. ADM.
Under the re-alignment, the Group disposed of the predominantly bulk ingredients plants in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary and the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the more speciality food ingredients focused plant in Slovakia not already owned by the Group.
The Group received net cash consideration of 173 million 240 million at closing.
Although the cash consideration was received as a single net amount, IFRS requires this consideration to be grossed-up to determine the cash effectively paid to acquire the 50% interest in the Slovakia business and the cash received for the disposal of the plants in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary.
In addition, as the acquisition of the Slovakian business is a step acquisition, the Groups existing interest in this plant is required to be re-measured to its fair value, which is then included as a component of the consideration paid for the acquisition.
This gross-up of the net cash consideration was done at fair value.
The result was that consideration of 112 million 156 million was paid for the acquired business, comprising 56 million 78 million of cash consideration and 56 million 78 million for the fair value of the Groups existing interest in Slovakia.
Each of the components of the Eaststarch re-alignment, comprising the acquisition accounting for the Slovakia business, the gain on re-measurement of the Groups existing interest in that plant and the disposal of the plants in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary are outlined below.
Acquisition of Amylum Slovakia s. r. o.
As noted above, as part of the re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture, the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the more speciality focused plant in Slovakia, Amylum Slovakia s. r. o. and subsequently renamed it Tate & Lyle Boleraz s. r. o.
As explained above, total consideration in respect of the Slovakian acquisition was 115 million.
The fair value of identifiable net assets acquired was 80 million, resulting in provisional goodwill of 35 million which will not be deductible for tax purposes.
The goodwill of 35 million remains provisional subject to finalisation of the working capital adjustment.
The plant in Slovakia provides a solid base from which to grow the Groups Speciality Food Ingredients business in Europe and an opportunity to increase production at the plant over time.
Provisional goodwill of 35 million primarily represents the premium paid to acquire an established business with a proven workforce and growth potential in the Speciality Food Ingredients market.
At the same time, two long-term distribution agreements have also been put in place under which the Group will distribute crystalline fructose, a speciality sweetener, produced by ADM in Turkey and ADM will act as exclusive distributor for bulk ingredients, produced in the Groups Slovakia and Netherlands facilities.
The acquired business in Slovakia contributed sales of 52 million and an operating profit of 2 million for the period from acquisition on 31 October 2015 including the amortisation of acquired intangibles recognised from the acquisition.
Had the business been acquired at the beginning of the financial year, it would have contributed sales of 130 million and an operating profit of 5 million.
Acquisition related costs were recognised as part of the overall Eaststarch re-alignment transaction costs within exceptional items and in cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
142 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 34.
Acquisitions and disposals continued The following tables provide a summary of the acquisition accounting: 2016 m Cash consideration 56 Non cash consideration fair value of existing interest in Slovakian joint venture 56 Purchase price adjustments 3 Total consideration 115 Less: fair value of net assets acquired 80 Provisional goodwill 35 Cash flows: Total cash consideration including purchase price adjustments 59 Less: net cash and working capital adjustments 5 Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired 54 The fair value of net assets acquired is comprised as follows: Book value on Fair value acquisition adjustments 2016 m m m Intangible assets customer relationships 20m, distribution agreement 9m 29 29 Property, plant and equipment 48 1 47 Inventories 9 9 Trade and other receivables 9 9 Cash and cash equivalents 6 6 Trade and other payables 10 10 Tax liabilities deferred tax liability 6m 4 6 10 Net assets on acquisition 58 22 80 Disposals As a result of the Eaststarch re-alignment, the Group exited the predominantly bulk ingredient plants in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary resulting in an exceptional gain on disposal of 68 million within discontinued operations.
50% Other Interest in Eaststarch 2016 Slovakia plants Total Note m m m Consideration 56 229 285 Purchase price adjustments 2 11 13 Total consideration 58 240 298 Total assets disposed 52 133 185 Foreign exchange recycled from other comprehensive income to profit or loss 34 34 Disposal cost 1 5 6 Gain on re-measurement disposal reported within exceptional items 7 5 68 73 Cash flows: Disposal of joint ventures 240 Transaction costs within exceptional cash outflow 4 Net cash inflow on disposal 236 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 143 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Acquisitions and disposals continued Exceptional gain on re-measurement disposal reported as follows: 2016 Note m Re-measurement of interest in Slovakia continuing operations 7 5 Disposal of other Eaststarch joint ventures discontinued operations 7 68 Total gain on re-measurement disposal exceptional items 73 Update on acquisitions made during the year ended 31 March 2015 During the year, the Group concluded its purchase price allocation for Gemacom Tech Indstria E Comrcio S. A. in which it acquired a 90% equity interest in December 2014.
This has resulted in the recognition of additional identifiable net assets acquired totalling 3million 4million of intangible assets less 1million of deferred tax liabilities as outlined in the table below: Provisional At 31 March 2015 Adjustment Final m m m Consideration including amounts paid to escrow 19 19 Deferred consideration 6 6 Contingent consideration 2 2 Total consideration 27 27 Add: liability recognised in respect of put option 2 2 Less: net assets acquired 5 3 8 Goodwill 24 3 21 The additional assets acquired relate to customer relationship intangibles, net of deferred tax.
The remaining goodwill recognised of 21million is attributable to: the acquisition of experienced management, research and technical teams: a platform to leverage the Groups existing recipe and ingredients portfolio: and buyer specific synergies from the ability to leverage the Groups existing relationships with its global enterprise customer base.
There were no changes to the provisional accounting in respect of the acquisition of Winway Biotechnology Nantong Co. Ltd which was also acquired during the year ended 31 March 2015.
Events after the balance sheet date There were no post balance sheet events requiring disclosure in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
144 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 36.
Related party disclosure Identity of related parties The Group has related party relationships with its joint ventures and associates, the Groups pension schemes and with key management being its directors and executive officers.
No related party transactions with close family members of the Groups key management occurred in the current or comparative year.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Transactions entered into by the Company with subsidiaries and between subsidiaries as well as the resultant balances of receivables and payables are eliminated on consolidation and are not required to be disclosed.
Transactions and balances with and between joint ventures are as shown below.
There are no such transactions with associates.
Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures 137 142 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures 132 265 At 31 March 2016 2015 m m Receivables due from joint ventures 12 24 Payables due to joint ventures 16 Financing deposits from joint ventures 40 The Group had no material related party transactions containing unusual commercial terms In 2015, the Group provided guarantees in respect of banking facilities of the Eaststarch joint venture totalling 8million.
There were no such arrangements in the current year as the joint venture had been disposed of.
Key management compensation Key management compensation is disclosed in Note 10.
Currency exchange rates The principal exchange rates used to translate the results, assets and liabilities and cash flows of the Groups foreign operations into pounds sterling were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 Average rate 1 1 US dollar 1.51 1.61 Euro 1.37 1.28 At 31 March 2016 2015 Year-end rate 1 1 US dollar 1.44 1.49 Euro 1.26 1.38 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 145 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 1 Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom Percentage of Percentage of ordinary shares preference shares attributable to attributable to Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Astaxanthin Manufacturing Limited Dormant 100 Cesalpinia UK Limited Dormant 100 G. C. Hahn and Company Limited Blending 100 Hahntech International Limited Dormant 100 2 Harvey Steel Sugars Limited Dormant 100 Histonpark Limited Dormant 100 Robinson Milling Systems Tewkesbury Limited Dormant 100 100 T. L. S. S. Pension Nominees Limited Dormant 100 2 Tate & Lyle Export Holdings Limited Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Group Services Limited Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Holdings Americas Limited Holding company 100 2 Tate & Lyle Holdings Limited Dormant 100 2 Tate & Lyle Industrial Holdings Limited Dormant 100 Tate & Lyle Industries Limited Holding company 100 2 Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC In-house treasury company 100 Tate & Lyle Investments Gulf States Limited Dormant 100 Tate & Lyle Investments Brazil Limited Holding company 100 2 Tate & Lyle Investments Limited Holding company 100 100 Tate & Lyle Overseas Limited Dormant 100 2 Tate & Lyle Pension Trust Limited Pension company 100 2 Tate & Lyle Share Shop Limited Dormant 100 2 Tate & Lyle Technology Limited Holding company 100 2 Tate & Lyle Trading & Developments Limited Dormant 100 2 Tate & Lyle UK Limited Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Ventures II LP Holding company 100 2 Tate & Lyle Ventures Limited Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Ventures LP Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle LLC Holding company 100 1 Registered in England and Wales, except Tate & Lyle LLC which is registered in Delaware, USA.
2 Direct subsidiaries of Tate & Lyle PLC.
146 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas Percentage of Percentage of Country of ordinary shares preference shares incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Argentina Tate & Lyle Argentina SA SFI distribution and sales support 100 Australia Tate & Lyle ANZ Pty Limited Food systems production and SFI distribution 100 2 Belgium Tate & Lyle Services Belgium N. V. Internal service provider 100 Bermuda Tate & Lyle Management & Finance Reinsurance Limited 100 1 Brazil Tate & Lyle Brasil S. A. Citric acid production and SFI distribution 100 G. C. Hahn & Co. do Estabilizantes e Dormant Tecnologia para Alimentos Ltda.
100 Tate & Lyle Holdings Brasil LTDA Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Gemacom Tech Indstria e Food systems production and Comrcio S. A. support 90 Canada Tate & Lyle Ingredients Canada Limited SFI sales support 100 Chile Tate & Lyle Chile Commercial Ltda SFI distribution and sales support 100 1 China Tate & Lyle Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd SFI distribution and sales support 100 G. C. Hahn & Co. Food Stabilizer Food systems sales 1 Business Shanghai Ltd 100 1 Tate & Lyle Howbetter Co. Ltd Food systems production 51 Tate & Lyle Food Ingredients Nantong Polydextrose production Company Limited 100 Columbia Tate & Lyle Colombia S. A. S. SFI distribution and sales support 100 Croatia G. C. Hahn & Co. d. o. o. Za distribuciju Food systems sales  100 Czech Republic G. C. Hahn & Co. Stabilizacni technika, Food systems sales s. r. o.
100 Egypt Tate & Lyle Egypt LLC Dormant 100 France G. C. Hahn & Cie. S. A. R. L. Food systems sales 100 Tate & Lyle Ingredients France S. A. S. Research and development centre 100 Germany G. C. Hahn & Co.  Food systems production GmbH 100 G. C. Hahn & Co. Cooperationsgeschaft Holding company mbH 100 HAHN International GmbH Dormant 100 HL Handelskontor GmbH Dormant 100 Tate & Lyle Germany GmbH SFI sales support 100 Gibraltar Tate & Lyle Insurance Gibraltar Reinsurance Limited 100 Greece Tate & Lyle Greece S. A. SFI sales support 95 India Tate & Lyle Investments India Private Dormant Ltd 100 Israel Tate & Lyle Israel Limited Dormant 100 Gamtal Foods Ltd Dormant 65 Italy Tate & Lyle Italia S. P. A.
Food systems production and SFI sales support 100 Japan Tate & Lyle Japan KK SFI distribution 100 Lithuania UAB G. C. Hahn & Co. Food systems sales 100 Mexico Tate & Lyle Mexico, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. SFI distribution and sales support 100 Mexama, S. A. fide C. V. Dormant 65 Talo Services Internal service provider 100 Morocco Tate & Lyle Morocco SA BI and SFI production 100 Netherlands Nederlandse Glucose Industrie B. V. Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Netherlands B. V. BI and SFI production 100 Poland G. C. Hahn & Co. Technika Dormant stabilizowania Sp.
100 Tate & Lyle Global Shared Services Internal service provider Sp.
z. o. o. SFI sales support 100 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 147 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas continued Percentage of Percentage of Country of ordinary shares preference shares incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Russian OOO Hahntech Service Food systems sales 100 Federation Singapore Tate & Lyle Asia Pacific Pte.
Ltd. SFI sales and ASPAC regional head office 100 Tate & Lyle Singapore Pte Ltd Sucralose production now decommissioned 100 Tate & Lyle Singapore Holdings Pte Ltd Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Singapore WWT Pte.
Ltd. Internal service provider 100 Slovakia Tate & Lyle Boleraz s. r. o. BI and SFI production 100 Tate & Lyle Slovakia, s. r. o.
Internal service provider 100 South Africa Tate and Lyle South Africa Proprietary Food systems production and SFI Limited distribution 100 Spain G. C. Hahn Estabilizantes y Tecnologia Food systems sales para Alimentos 100 Ebromyl S. L. Dormant 100 Talan Iberica SA Dormant 100 Sweden Tate & Lyle Sweden AB Oat protein and Beta Glucan production 100 Turkey Tate and Lyle Turkey Gda Hizmetleri SFI Sales support Anonim S irketi 100 1 Ukraine PII G. C. Hahn & Co. Kiev Food systems sales 100 United Arab Tate & Lyle DMCC Food systems and SFI sales support 100 Emirates USA Staley Holdings LLC Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Custom Ingredients LLC Food systems production 100 Tate & Lyle Finance LLC In-house finance 100 TLHUS, Inc. Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Ingredients Americas LLC BI and SFI production 100 Tate & Lyle Sucralose LLC Sucralose production 100 TLI Holding LLC In-house finance 100 Tate & Lyle Domestic International Internal service provider Sales Corporation 100 Tate & Lyle Grain, Inc.
Grain products 100 Tate & Lyle Malic Acid LLC Dormant 100 Tate & Lyle Sugar Holdings, Inc. Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Americas LLC Internal service provider 100 Tate & Lyle Citric Acid LLC Citric acid production 100 Staley International Inc. Cereal sweeteners and starches 100 G. C. Hahn USA LLC Dormant 100 1 Non-coterminous year-end.
Joint ventures Percentage of Percentage of Country of ordinary shares preference shares incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Mexico Almidones Mexicanos SA BI and SFI production 50 Promotora fide Productos y Mercados BI and SFI production Mexicanos, S. A. fide C. V. 50 Netherlands Eastern Sugar B. V. Holding company 50 Slovakia Eastern Sugar s. r. o. Dormant 50 USA DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Products Industrial ingredients Company, LLC 50 1 Non-coterminous year-end.
148 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Associates Percentage of Percentage of Country of ordinary shares preference shares incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Thailand Tapioca Development Corporation Starch production 33.3 1 Direct associate of Tate & Lyle PLC.
The results, assets and liabilities and cash flows of those entities whose financial years are not coterminous with that of the Group are consolidated or equity accounted in the Groups financial statements on the basis of management accounts for the year to 31 March.
Restatement of prior year adjusted performance metrics The Groups prior year results on an adjusted basis have been restated from those reported in the Annual Report for the year ended 31March 2015.
The restatement reflects 1 the adoption of equity accounting in adjusted performance measures, 2 the disposed elements of the Eaststarch joint venture and classification of their performance as discontinued operations, and 3 the announced disposal of the Groups corn wet mill in Morocco.
The table below provides a reconciliation of the prior year restatement of adjusted performance metrics: Year ended 31 March 2015 Continuing Discontinued Total m unless otherwise stated operations operations operations Restated adjusted measures proportionate consolidation of joint ventures Sales 2 546 148 2 694 Adjusted operating profit 214 33 247 Adjusted net finance expense 23 23 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates Adjusted profit before tax 191 33 224 Adjusted income tax expense 41 7 48 Non-controlling interests Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company 150 26 176 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence 32.3p 5.7p 38.0p Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence 32.0p 5.7p 37.7p Adjustment for equity accounting of joint ventures Sales 205 133 338 Adjusted operating profit 30 33 63 Adjusted net finance expense Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 23 26 49 Adjusted profit before tax 7 7 14 Adjusted income tax expense 7 7 14 Non-controlling interests Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company Adjusted basic earnings per share pence Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence Restated adjusted measures equity accounting of joint ventures Sales 2 341 15 2 356 Adjusted operating profit 184 184 Adjusted net finance expense 23 23 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 23 26 49 Adjusted profit before tax 184 26 210 Adjusted income tax expense 34 34 Non-controlling interests Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company 150 26 176 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence 32.3p 5.7p 38.0p Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence 32.0p 5.7p 37.7p Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 149
