Strategic Report Global Operations Delivering operational and supply chain excellence GLOBAL OPERATIONS SALES AND CUSTOMER RAW MATERIAL OPERATIONS MANUFACTURING SERVICE AND SOURCING PLANNING LOGISTICS Safety Sustainability Continuous Improvement Operational and supply chain excellence managed by Global Operations include our Speciality Food Ingredients capacity ensures the delivery of high quality oat-based fibres facility in Sweden and the expansion programme products to our customers across the polydextrose fibre facility plant in China.
During the second half of the year, Global world.
Global Operations is responsible for Operations brought on line the incremental Transforming the global supply chain making this happen and includes supply capacity expansion projects originally The creation of Global Operations in and demand planning, raw material announced in May 2014 to increase November 2014 represented an important sourcing, manufacturing, customer the Groups speciality food ingredients step towards simplifying our global service and logistics, safety, sustainability production capacity.
These expansions structure and allowing the different parts and continuous improvement.
were at our corn wet mills in the US of the business to focus on what they do and Europe, and at our oat-based facility The Global Operations team is committed best our commercial divisions on serving in Sweden.
to the efficient and cost effective operation customers, and Global Operations on of our production assets, and ensuring that delivering operational and supply chain Consolidate SPLENDA Sucralose our ingredients reach customers with the excellence.
production timeliness and quality that our customers During the year, Global Operations led During the year, Global Operations led expect.
Over time, through the application the process of transferring production three of the Groups main change projects.
of process technologies and continuous from the SPLENDA Sucralose facility improvement, Global Operations seeks to Global supply chain management in Singapore to the facility in Alabama, identify cost and production efficiencies to We have been implementing significant US.
The Singapore facility closed on remain cost competitive in the markets we enhancements to our global supply and 31March 2016 as planned.
These Customer service, raw material improvements have been supported by the Safety sourcing and sustainability availability of higher quality data from the Tate&Lyle has no higher priority than the Global Operations supports the efficient deployment of our new global IS IT system.
safety of its employees, contractors and operation of manufacturing, supply chain everyone who comes to its sites.
Global Global Operations has implemented a and customer service for both divisions.
Operations is responsible for the global common process for gathering a robust The group operates regional customer safety programme, details of which can demand signal from the global business.
service functions with dedicated teams be found on pages 35 to 37.
Demand planning resources have been managing customer communications from added in each region which Speciality Food order receipt to delivery.
Global manufacturing operations Ingredients operate with a common Global Operations manage our principal Corn is our largest raw material input.
The regional output, in a common manufacturing assets.
In the US these Global Operations manages corn format, is assessed against our supply include four major corn wet mills of which procurement and the elevator network capability, allowing us to make faster, three are located in the Midwest and one in of storage facilities in the US to manage better-quality decisions.
In Europe, we operate two corn the cost effectiveness and security of our wet mills, one in the Netherlands and one These changes are driving a significant corn supply.
Each of these corn wet mills is improvement in the effectiveness of our While operating the production facilities an integrated asset making both speciality demand and supply planning process.
For as efficiently as we can, we are also food ingredients and bulk ingredients.
example, through these improvements and focused on managing our impact on the the use of storage facilities in emerging Other key sites managed by Global environment and the communities in markets, we can hold inventory closer to Operations include our SPLENDA which we operate.
customers, better manage transportation Sucralose facility in Alabama, USA, and lead times, and therefore better serve our citric acid plants in Ohio, USA, and our customers.
Smaller manufacturing sites 24 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016
