Strategic Report Business Overview How our business works We develop a deep understanding of the consumer, the markets and categories we operate in, and the customers we serve Consumer insights Customer collaboration Category understanding Identifying opportunities for growth Close interaction with customers Increasing our expertise and from consumers changing behaviours to build a deeper understanding of knowledge in categories such and demands their needs as dairy and beverage 12 Business Model We serve these markets and our customers through two business divisions, each with a clear remit and focus... Speciality Food Ingredients Bulk Ingredients Growth engine of the Group Steady earnings and cash generation Develops innovative ingredients and solutions for food and Provides high-volume food ingredients and industrial products beverage customers globally.
It is well positioned to benefit primarily for customers in the North American market.
from global consumer demand for healthier food and drink.
Main product lines Main categories of expertise Bulk sweeteners for food and beverage customers Dairy, beverage, bakery and convenience Industrial starches for paper and construction industries Strategic positioning Strategic positioning Leading positions in attractive markets Focus on relatively more stable North American market Broad product and geographic diversification Strong market positions Strong focus on innovation Integrated, scale and efficient assets Growing customer base Long-standing customer relationships 17 Speciality Food Ingredients 10 Marketplace 20 Bulk Ingredients 10 Marketplace These business divisions are supported by two global teams Innovation and Commercial Development Global Operations Creating a world class innovation capability is a key part of our The role of Global Operations is to deliver high quality products growth strategy.
Innovation and Commercial Development ICD to our customers across the world.
It is responsible for running connects consumer needs with leading-edge science to provide our manufacturing facilities, like our integrated corn wet mills innovative ingredients and solutions for our customers.
in the US and Europe, and for making our ingredients.
Global Operations is also responsible for supply and demand planning, ICD brings together research and development, open raw material sourcing, customer service and logistics, safety, innovation, platform management and global marketing into sustainability, and continuous improvement.
one fully integrated global team.
22 Innovation and Commercial Development 24 Global Operations 02 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Business Overview Our business is driven by some key enablers ROBUST STRONG RELEVANT COST EFFECTIVE INNOVATION TECHNICAL PRODUCT SUPPLY CHAIN PIPELINE EXPERTISE PORTFOLIO Our ingredients help our Our innovation pipeline develops Our teams work in application Our scale and efficient customers address new products and solutions and technical service centres manufacturing facilities increasing global demand focused on three platforms around the world to solve our provide a cost effective for healthier food and drink.
sweeteners, texturants and customers local taste and supply of ingredients for health and wellness.
distribution through our global supply chain.
22 Innovation and Commercial Development 12 Business Model 24 Global Operations Supported by the talent and expertise of our people... Our employees are central to the delivery of our strategy.
We invest in training and developing our employees and also recruit high calibre talent to ensure we have the right people, teams and skills to grow our business.
34 Corporate Responsibility Our business is supported by a strong governance framework and our Values Board oversight Risk management Values The Board of Directors oversees the A Group-wide risk management and Our Values define what we stand for activities of the Group through regular reporting process helps us identify, and how we behave with our customers, meetings of the Board and its prioritise and mitigate risk.
suppliers, investors, partners, the four Committees.
communities we operate in and each other.
45 Corporate Governance 31 Risks 34 Corporate Responsibility Underpinned by a commitment to safe and sustainable business practices People safety Product quality Environment Sustainability We have no higher priority Our products adhere to the We work to address We are implementing than the safety of our people highest standards of food environmental considerations sustainable agricultural and we have an extensive safety, quality and traceability.
across the life-cycle of our sourcing programmes safety management Our manufacturing facilities products.
We have targets in for 25 agricultural raw programme in place.
We are externally certified to the areas such as reducing CO e materials ingredients.
2 measure safety performance Global Food Safety Initiative.
emissions, reducing product at every site monthly.
packaging, and improving transport efficiency.
34 Corporate Responsibility Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 03
