Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report An overview of the scope of our audit continued Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required The audit is performed centrally and includes all of the 24 regional business to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: units within the Groups UK Housing segment.
We choose to visit a sample of these business units selected on a rotational basis and with reference to materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial size and complexity among other factors.
The purpose of these visits is to statements: or conduct procedures over selected controls that are in place at each apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, Business Unit and also to perform substantive testing of certain balances.
our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our In the current year we performed regional visits to four locations 2015: audit: or five.
In addition we also visit other Business Units throughout the entity otherwise misleading.
which are chosen on a random basis.
During these visits we assess the commonality of the controls in line with the Group-wide controls identified, In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any as well as performing substantive testing.
This was performed at five inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the locations 2015: four.
Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee 2006 which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to consistent with the financial statements: and audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
review team and independent partner reviews.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors opinion: report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we we have not received all the information and explanations we require for do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company our audit: or and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Scope of the audit of the financial statements from branches not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the accounting records and returns.
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys Directors remuneration circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial report arising from these matters.
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially Corporate Governance Statement incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance implications for our report.
with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
EDWARD HANSON SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, London, United Kingdom 27 February 2017 105 taylorwimpey.
