Financial Statements FIVE YEAR REVIEW AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES The Group uses a number of alternative performance measures which are not defined within IFRS.
The Directors use these measures in order to assess the underlying operational performance of the Group and, as such, these measures should be considered alongside the IFRS measures.
Reconciliations from Statutory Performance Measures to the Alternative Performance Measures APMs are shown in the below table.
a The results for 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IAS19 Employee Benefits amended 2011.
Net operating asset turn Profit before taxation and exceptional items and Profit for the This is defined as total Group revenue divided by the average of opening year before exceptional items and closing net operating assets.
The Directors consider this to be a good The Directors consider the removal of exceptional items from the reported indicator of how efficiently the Group is utilising its assets to generate value results provide more clarity on the performance of the Group.
They are for the shareholders.
reconciled to profit before tax and profit for the year respectively, on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement.
Tangible net assets per share This is calculated as net assets before any accrued dividends excluding Operating profit and operating profit margin goodwill and intangible assets divided by the number of ordinary shares in Throughout the Annual Report and Accounts, operating profit is used issue at the end of the period.
The Directors consider this to be a good as one of the main measures of performance, with operating profit margin measure of the value intrinsic within each ordinary share.
defined below being a Key Performance Indicator KPI.
Operating profit is defined as profit on ordinary activities before net finance costs, exceptional Cash conversion items and tax, after share of results of joint ventures.
The Directors This is defined as cash generated from operations divided by operating consider this to be an important measure of underlying performance of profit.
The Directors consider this measure to be a good indication of how the Group.
Operating profit margin is calculated as operating profit divided efficiently the Group is turning profit into cash.
The Directors consider this to be a metric which reflects the underlying performance of the business.
Adjusted gearing Return on net operating assets This is defined as adjusted net debt divided by basic net assets.
The Directors consider this to be a more representative measure of the Groups Return on net operating assets, another KPI, is defined as 12-month gearing levels.
Adjusted net debt is defined as net cash plus land creditors.
operating profit divided by the average of the opening and closing net operating assets, which is defined as basic net assets less net cash, Adjusted basic earnings per share excluding net taxation balances and any accrued dividends.
The Directors consider this to be an important measure of the underlying operating This is calculated as earnings attributed to the shareholders, excluding efficiency and performance of the Group.
exceptional items and tax on exceptional items, divided by the weighted average number of shares.
The Directors consider this provides an Return on capital employed important measure of the underlying earning capacity of the Group.
Note 6 shows a reconciliation from basic earnings per share to adjusted The Directors consider return on capital employed is the most appropriate basic earnings per share.
measure to use when appraising sites ahead of purchase and is defined as 12-month operating profit divided by the average of the opening and closing capital employed.
Capital employed is defined as net operating assets less intangible assets, including net taxation balances.
co. uk Shareholder information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING This notice of meeting is important and requires your immediate attention.
B comprising equity securities as dened in the Companies Act If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are 2006 up to a nominal amount of 21,809,067 such amount to be recommended to seek your own financial advice immediately from a reduced by any allotments or grants made under paragraph A stockbroker, solicitor, bank manager, accountant, or other independent above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may Act2000.
bepracticable to their existing holdings: and If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Taylor Wimpey ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the plc the Company, please pass this document together with the rightsofthose securities or as the Board otherwise accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person considersnecessary, who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make the person who now holds the shares.
If you have sold or transferred part any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal only of your holding of shares in the Company, please consult the person with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, who arranged the sale or transfer.
regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authorities to apply until the end of the Notice is hereby given of the eighty second Annual General Meeting of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2018 or, if earlier, until Company to be held on 27 April 2017 at 11:00 am at TheBritish Medical theclose of business on 26 July 2018 but, in each case, so that the Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP for the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during this following purposes: period which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights tosubscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after Ordinary Business the authority ends: and the Board may allot shares or grant rights Ordinary Resolutions: tosubscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer 1.
To receive the Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report, or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
Strategic Report, the Auditors Report and the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
That if resolution 15 is passed, the Board be given power to allot 2.
To declare due and payable on 19 May 2017 a final dividend of equity securities as dened in the Companies Act 2006 for cash 2.29pence per ordinary share of the Company for the year ended under the authority given by that resolution and or to sell ordinary 31December 2016 to shareholders on the register at close of shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section business on 18 April 2017.
561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment 3.
To declare due and payable on 14 July 2017 a special dividend orsale, such power to be limited: of9.20pence per ordinary share of the Company to shareholders on A to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares the register at close of business on 2 June 2017. inconnection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity 4.
To re-elect as a Director, Kevin Beeston.
securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph 5.
To re-elect as a Director, Pete Redfern.
B of resolution 15, by way of a rights issue only : 6.
To re-elect as a Director, Ryan Mangold.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 7.
To re-elect as a Director, James Jordan.
bepracticable to their existing holdings: and 8.
To re-elect as a Director, Kate Barker DBE.
ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities, or as the Board otherwise 9.
To re-elect as a Director, Mike Hussey.
To re-elect as a Director, Robert Rowley.
and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make 11.
To re-elect as a Director, Humphrey Singer.
any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal 12.
To elect as a Director, Angela Knight CBE.
with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, 13.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold ofce regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are or any other matters: and laid before the Company.
B in the case of the authority granted under paragraph A of 14.
Subject to the passing of resolution 13, to authorise the Audit resolution 15 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares, Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditor on behalf tothe allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares ofthe Board.
otherwise than under paragraph A above up to a nominal 15.
That the Board be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot amount of 1,635,680. shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert Such power to apply until the end of the next Annual General any security into shares in the Company: Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, until the close of business on A up to a nominal amount of 10,904,533 such amount to be 26 July 2018 but, in each case, during this period the Company reduced by any allotments or grants made under paragraph B may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or below, in excess of 10,904,533 : and might, require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
That if resolution 15 is passed, the Board be given the power in Special Business addition toany power granted under resolution 16 to allot equity Ordinary Resolutions: securities as dened in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the 19.
That the Directors Remuneration Report other than the part authority granted under paragraph A of resolution 15 and or to sell containing the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year ended ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if 31 December 2016, as set out on pages 78 to 96 of the Report and section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such Accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2016, be allotment or sale, such power to be: approved in accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006.
A limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury 20.
That the Directors Remuneration Policy, the full text of which is set out shares up to a nominal amount of 1,635,680: and on pages 82 to 84 of the Report and Accounts for the financial year B used only for the purposes of nancing a transaction which the ended 31 December 2016, be approved in accordance with section Board determines to be an acquisition or other capital investment 439A of the Companies Act 2006, to take effect from the date of the of a kind contemplated bythe Statement of Principles on 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the 21.
That the rules of the Taylor Wimpey 2017 Performance Share Plan Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this Notice or for the theNew Plan, the principal terms of which are summarised in the purposes of renancing such a transaction within six months of its Appendix to this Notice of Annual General Meeting, and produced in taking place.
draft to this meeting and, for the purposes of identication, are initialled Such power to apply until the end of the next Annual General Meeting by the Chairman of the meeting, be and are hereby approved and the of the Company or, if earlier, until the close of business on 26 July 2018 Directors be authorised to: but, in each case, during this period the Company may make offers, A do all such other acts and things as they may consider appropriate and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity to implement the New Plan: and securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power B establish further plans based on the New Plan but modied to take ends and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
overseas territories, provided that any Shares made available 18.
That the Company be authorised for the purposes of Section 701 under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits ofthe Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the on individual or overall participation in the New Plan.
meaning of Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of the ordinary shares of 1 pence each of the Company ordinary shares, 22.
That in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act provided that: 2006, the Company and all companies which are its subsidiaries when this resolution is passed are authorised to: A the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised tobepurchased shall be 327,136,000: A make political donations to political parties and or independent election candidates not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: B the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid forordinary shares is 1 pence per ordinary share: B make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: and C the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid foran ordinary share is the highest of: C incur political expenditure not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate, during the period beginning with the date of passing this resolution i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London in 2018.
Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which such ordinary share For the purposes of this resolution the terms political donations, is purchased: and political parties, independent election candidates, political organisation and political expenditure have the meanings given by ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the Sections 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006. highest independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out: Special Resolution: D the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the 23.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2018 Company may continue to be called on not less than 14 clear and 26 October 2018 unless such authority is renewed prior to days notice.
such time: and Explanatory notes relating to each of the above resolutions are set out E the Company may make contracts to purchase ordinary shares onpages 158 to 163. under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after Action to be taken theexpiry of such authority, and may purchase ordinary shares If you wish to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in person, inpursuance of any such contracts, as if the authority conferred please bring with you the attendance card accompanying this document.
bythis resolution had not expired.
It will help to authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will help us to register your attendance without delay.
Registration will be available from 9:30 am on the day of the Meeting.
For the safety and comfort of those attending the Meeting, large bags, cameras, recording equipment and similar items will not be allowed into the building and in the interests of security, by attending the Meeting, upon request, you hereby agree to be searched together with any bags and other possessions.
TheMeeting will commence at 11:00 am and light refreshments will be available from 9:30 am and also after the conclusion of the Meeting.
Thereis wheelchair access to the venue for shareholders who require itorthose with reduced mobility.
However, where required, attendees are strongly advised to bring their own carers to assist with their general mobility around the venue.
An induction loop system operates in the 155 taylorwimpey.
