Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Defined benefit pension scheme accounting We assessed the competence and objectivity of the qualified actuary Refer to page 77 Audit Committee report, page 114 Critical accounting engaged by the Group to value the schemes defined benefits pension judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and page 131 position under IAS 19 Employee benefits.
We engaged our internal actuarial specialists to assess the The total value of the defined benefit pension scheme at the balance sheet appropriateness of the methodology and assumptions used to account date is a liability of 232.7 million 2015: 177.1 million and the liabilities for the defined benefit scheme.
This included comparison of key data specifically are valued at 2,368.8 million 2015: 2,066.2 million.
with market benchmarks and to challenge the methodology used by the scheme actuary.
We considered whether each of the key assumptions Accounting for a defined benefit pension scheme and the value of liabilities was reasonable in isolation and collectively in determining the pension is dependent on significant assumptions, including an assessment of the liability at the balance sheet date.
Furthermore, we have performed a discount rate, price inflation and key demographic figures including life sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions determined by the Directors.
A change in any of these assumptions could cause a material change in the value of the liabilities overall and the We performed procedures to assess the underlying data provided to the net pension position on the Groups balance sheet.
actuary in determining the underlying value of the liabilities.
This includes an assessment of the membership data provided.
These accounting judgements are inherently complex, require a high level of Management judgement and specialist actuarial input.
The description of the risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 77.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
the risks of material misstatements at the Group level.
Based on that We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the UK evaluating the results of our work.
Housing division excluding joint ventures which represents the principal segment within the Group and accounts for 98% 2015: 98% of Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the the Groups net operating assets, 97% 2015: 98% of the Groups Group to be 36.0 million 2015: 29.0 million, which is calculated based revenue and 98% 2015: 98% of the Groups pre-tax profit before on 5% 2015: 5% of pre-tax profit for the year, excluding exceptional exceptional expense.
items, of 733.4 million 2015: 603.8 million as described on page 106.
The increase in materiality is directly attributable to the increased underlying We audit all of the Groups UK subsidiaries, which are subject to audit pre-tax profit for the Group.
Pre-tax profit, excluding exceptional items, has at a statutory materiality level, which in most cases is substantially lower been chosen for the basis for materiality as this is the measure by which than Group materiality.
This is performed subsequent to the audit of the stakeholders and the market assess the wider performance of the entity.
The exceptional items are excluded as they do not represent part of the For the Spanish operations, component auditors report to us on the risk underlying trading performance of the business.
in relation to the net realisable value of the inventory located in Spain.
This We use performance materiality to detect misstatements at a lower level was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of of precision: for the current year this is set at 25.2 million 2015: 20.3 the materiality of the Groups operations within Spain.
This is lower than materiality and is used to determine the size of For joint ventures, specified audit procedures are conducted by the UK the samples that are selected for audit work and in forming the conclusions team.
This is based on our assessment of risk within these entities.
that we make during the course of our procedures.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.00 million 2015: 0.58 no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This increase in threshold is the specified account balances.
result of an increase in the Groups profit before tax during the year.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
