Shareholder information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED meeting room.
Directions to the venue can be found on the reverse of Procedural notes your attendance card.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting andfor the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes If you would like to vote on the resolutions but cannot come to the Annual which shareholders may cast, shareholders must be registered in the General Meeting, please complete the proxy form sent to you with this Register of Members of the Company by close of business on notice and return it to our registrar as soon as possible.
In order for it 25 April 2017 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date which is to count, the registrar must receive it by no later than 11:00 am on two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
If you prefer, you can submit your proxy electronically either onthe Register of Members shall be entitled to attend and vote at the via the internet at www.
com or, if you are a CREST Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered member, through the CREST system by completing and transmitting in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant Register aCREST proxy instruction as described in the procedural notes below.
of Members after that deadline shall be disregarded in determining the Recommendation rights of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed at 2.
As at 2 March 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to the theAnnual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital itsshareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
consisted of 3,271,360,183 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Each Director will be doing so in respect of all of his or her own Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 2 March 2017 beneficial shareholding.
If you are a shareholder of the Company at the time and date set out in Inspection of documents Note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any The following documents will be available for inspection at the of your rights to attend and to speak and vote on your behalf at the Companysregistered ofce, Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, meeting.
Shareholders may appoint more than one proxy in relation Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR during normal business hours from the date tothe Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed of this Notice of Meeting until the date of the Annual General Meeting to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by andat The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company London, WC1H 9JP from 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting but must attend the Annual General Meeting to represent you.
A proxy until it ends: form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
If you do not have a proxy form copies of the Executive Directors service contracts: and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional copies of the letters of appointment of the Chairman and the forms, please contact Capita Asset Services as soon as possible Independent Non Executive Directors: on 44 0 871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone a copy of the full Annual Report and Financial Statements of the companys access charge : from overseas 44 0 371 664 0300 Company for the year ended 31 December 2016, including the callsoutside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable Directors Remuneration Report, the current Directors Remuneration international rate.
Capita Asset Services is open between 9.00 am Policy, and the proposed new Directors Remuneration Policy, referred 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and toin resolutions 19 and 20.
This document is also available on our Wales.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint website at www.
co. uk corporate: and holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined copies of the rules of the New Plan will be available for inspection at bythe order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the the registered ofce of the Company and at the ofces of New Bridge Companys Register of Members in respect of the joint holdings Street an Aon Hewitt Ltd company at 10 Devonshire Square, London therst-named being the most senior.
EC2M 4YP during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and English public holidays excepted until the close of the Annual 4.
To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for must be received by Capita Asset Services at PXS 1, 34 Beckenham atleast 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4ZF, or, if you want to use an envelope By Order of the Board the address to use is simply FREEPOST CAPITA PXS, or, if you prefer, electronically via the internet at www.
com or, if you are a member of CREST, via the service provided by Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited at the electronic address provided in Note 9, in each case no later than 11:00 am on 25 April 2017.
Please note that all forms of proxy received after this time will be void.
A form of proxy sentelectronically at any time that is found to contain any virus will not be accepted.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any Group Legal Director and Company Secretary CREST Proxy Instruction as further described in Notes 8 and 9 below Taylor Wimpey plc will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting Registered Ofce: and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Gate House Turnpike Road High Wycombe Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR Registered in England and Wales under number 296805 9 March 2017 156 Taylor Wimpey plc 6.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated 13.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a matter relating to: right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy i the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, the Annual General Meeting: or under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Such persons should ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which direct any communications and enquiries to the registered holder annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with ofthe shares by whom they were nominated and not to the Company Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006. or its registrar.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such 7.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections appointment of proxies in Notes 3 and 4 above does not apply 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is toNominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can only required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available theCREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer ona website.
totheir CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able 14.
Any member attending the Meeting has the right to ask questions to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
The Company must cause to be 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with service to be valid, it must be properly authenticated in accordance at the Meeting but no such answer need be given if: i to do so would with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specications, and must interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the contain the information required for such instruction, as described disclosure of condential information: ii the answer has already been inthe CREST Manual available via www.
given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or iii it is Themessage, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the ofa proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously Meeting that the question be answered.
appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to 15.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Section bereceived by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 11:00 am on 311Aof the Companies Act 2006, can be found at 25 April 2017.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be www.
co. uk corporate the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message bythe CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able 16.
Voting on all resolutions at this years Annual General Meeting will to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed beconducted by way of a poll, rather than on a show of hands.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies TheBoard believes that a poll is more representative of shareholders appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee voting intentions because it gives as many shareholders as possible through other means.
the opportunity to have their votes counted whether their votes are tendered by proxy in advance of, or in person at, the Annual General 10.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors Meeting.
The results of the poll will be announced via a Regulatory orvoting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and Ireland Information Service and made available at www.
co. uk Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any corporate as soon as practicable after the Annual General Meeting.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
Itis the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, ifthe CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors orvoting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to thesame shares.
co. uk Shareholder information NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Explanatory notes to the resolutions CREST For shares held in uncerticated form CREST, please note that elections Ordinary Business continue to apply only to one dividend and a fresh election must be made, Ordinary Resolutions via CREST, for each dividend.
Ordinary resolutions require more than half of the votes cast to be in favour.
Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions required to make or revoke an election, both in respect of maintenance Resolution 1: To receive the annual report and financial statements dividends i. e. in this case, the 2016 final dividend and any special English company law requires the Directors to lay the Financial Statements dividends, are available at www.
com or on request from of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the reports the Registrar, Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, ofthe Directors, namely the Strategic Report, Directors Report and the Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, email: shares@capita.
co. uk or call 44 Directors Remuneration Report, and the Auditors Report: before 0 371 664 0381.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and ageneral meeting of the Company the Annual Report.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged atthe applicable international rate.
The Registar is open between 9:00 am Resolution 2: To declare a final dividend and 5:30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 2.29 pence and Wales.
per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 19 May 2017 to Resolution 4 -12: Election of Directors shareholders who are on the Register of Members at the close of business In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code on 18 April 2017. which states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders, the Board has resolved that all Resolution 3: To declare a special dividend Directors of the Company will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves The Company has announced its intention to return cash to its forre-election or election, as appropriate, by shareholders at the Annual shareholders, through the payment of annual special dividends, always General Meeting.
subject to market and performance uctuations.
Due to the size of Details of the Directors service contracts, remuneration and interests these dividends, the Company believes it is appropriate to seek prior inthe Companys shares and other securities are given in the Directors shareholder approval for its payment, as it has done at the last three Remuneration Report to shareholders on pages 78 to 96 of the Report Annual General Meetings.
Full biographical information concerning each Director can Further details on the rationale for paying special dividends and the link be found on page 55 of the Report and Accounts.
tothe Companys current strategy, can be found on page 13.
The following summary information is given in support of the Boards The aggregate cost of the special dividend for 2017 will be around proposal for the re-election or election, as appropriate, of the Directors of 300 million and will be met from profits and surplus cash generated the Company: during 2016.
If approved, it will be paid on 14 July 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 2 June 2017.
Kevin Beeston offers himself for re-election.
Kevin has been Chairman of the Board since July 2010.
The Board is Dividend Re-Investment Plan satisfied that he continues to carry out his duties to a very high standard Subject to shareholders approving either or both of the dividends as set including at meetings of the Board and of the Nomination Committee out in Resolutions 2 and 3 at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for which he Chairs and the Remuneration Committee, and that his other 27 April 2017, the Company will be offering a Dividend Re-Investment Plan commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which DRIP on each one.
The DRIP is provided and administered by the DRIP heisable to devote to the Company.
His biography appears on page 55 plan administrator, Capita IRG Trustees Limited, which is authorised and there is additional information on page 63. andregulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The DRIP offers shareholders the opportunity to elect to invest cash dividends received Pete Redfern offers himself for re-election.
ontheir ordinary shares, in purchasing further ordinary shares of the Pete has been Chief Executive since July 2007 and was previously Group Company.
These shares would be bought in the market, on competitive Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc.
His biography appears on page 55 dealing terms.
and there is additional information on page 63.
The DRIP will operate automatically in respect of the Final Dividend for Ryan Mangold offers himself for re-election.
2016 unless varied beforehand by shareholders and all future dividends, Ryan has been Group Finance Director since November 2010. including special dividends, until such time as you withdraw from the DRIP Hisbiography appears on page 55 and there is additional information or the DRIP is suspended or terminated in accordance with the Terms onpage 63. and Conditions.
James Jordan offers himself for re-election.
Shareholders are again reminded to check the position with regard to any dividend mandates that are in place, should you either wish to participate James has been Group Legal Director since July 2011 and is also in the DRIP or discontinue or vary any participation, as existing mandates theGroup Company Secretary, a position he has held since 2007. will apply to all dividend payments including special dividends unless Priorto2007 he held the same role, pre-merger, with George Wimpey plc.
Hisbiography appears on page 55 and there is additional information onpage 63.
Kate Barker DBE offers herself for re-election.
Kate has been an Independent Non Executive Director since April 2011.
The Board is satisfied that she continues to be independent in character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the Board and ofthe Remuneration Committee which she Chairs and the Audit and Nomination Committees, and that her other commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which she is able to devote to the 158 Taylor Wimpey plc Company.
Herbiography appears on page 55 and there is additional Resolution 14: Authorisation of the Audit Committee to agree on behalf information onpage 63. of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte as auditor The Board seeks shareholders authority for the Audit Committee to Mike Hussey offers himself for re-election.
determine on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte for their Mike has been an Independent Non Executive Director since July 2011. services.
The Board has adopted a procedure governing the appointment The Board is satisfied that he is independent in character and judgement of Deloitte to carry out non-audit services, details of which are given in the in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Audit and Audit Committee Report.
Details of non-audit services performed by Nomination Committees, and that his other commitments do not detract Deloitte in 2016 are given in Note 6 on page 118 of the Report from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote to the and Accounts.
His biography appears on page 55 and there is additional information on page 63.
Resolution 15: Authority to allot shares The Directors wish to renew the existing authority to allot unissued shares Robert Rowley offers himself for re-election.
in the Company, which was granted at the Companys last Annual General Rob has been an Independent Non Executive Director since January Meeting held on 28 April 2016 and is due to expire at the conclusion of 2010and the Senior Independent Director since April 2010.
The Board this Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Paragraph A of resolution 15 issatised that he continues to be independent in character and would give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares or grant judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board and of the rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into ordinary shares Audit Committee which he Chairs and the Nomination and Remuneration uptoan aggregate nominal amount equal to 10,904,533 representing Committees, and that his other commitments do not detract from the 1,090,453,300 ordinary shares.
This amount represents approximately extent or quality of time which he is able to devote to the Company.
one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at Hisbiography appears on page 55 and there is additional information 2 March 2017, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice onpage 63. ofmeeting.
In line with guidance issued by The Investment Association formerly the Humphrey Singer offers himself for re-election.
Association of British Insurers TIA, paragraph B of resolution 15would Humphrey has been an Independent Non Executive Director since give the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to 9 December 2015.
The Board is satisfied that he is independent in subscribe for or convert any securities into ordinary shares in connection character and judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate Board and of the Audit and Nomination Committees, and that his other nominal amount equal to 21,809,067 representing 2,180,906,700 commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which ordinary shares, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued heisable to devote to the Company.
His biography appears on page 55 under paragraph A of resolution 15.
This amount before any reduction and there is additional information on page 63. represents approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital ofthe Company as at 2 March 2017, the latest practicable date prior to Angela Knight CBE offers herself for election.
publication of this notice of meeting.
Angela has been an Independent Non Executive Director since 1 November 2016, having been appointed by the Board since the last The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
The Board is satisfied that she is independent in character and The authorities sought under paragraphs A and B of resolution 15 will judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the Board and of the expire at the earlier of 26 July 2018 and the conclusion of the Annual Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and that her other General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2018. commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which sheisable to devote to the Company.
Her biography appears on page 55 The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the authorities and there is additional information on page 63. sought under this resolution.
However, if they do exercise the authorities, the Directors intend to follow TIA recommendations concerning their use The Board confirms that each of the above Directors other than Angela including as regards the Directors standing for re-election in certain cases.
Knight due to her appointment on 1 November 2016 and as explained on page 97 has recently been subject to formal performance evaluation, Special Resolutions details of which are set out in the Corporate Governance Report in the Special resolutions require at least a 75% majority of votes cast Report and Accounts on pages 56 to 68, and that each continues to tobecastin favour.
demonstrate commitment and to be an effective member of the Board.
7.2 ofthe Code, the Chairman hereby Resolutions 16 and 17: Authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights confirms that, following the formal performance evaluation referred to Resolutions 16 and 17 will be proposed as special resolutions, each of above, the performance of each of the Non Executive Directors continues which requires a 75% majority of the votes to be cast in favour.
They to be effective and that each continues to demonstrate commitment to would give the Directors the power to allot ordinary shares or sell any the role.
ordinary shares which the Company holds in treasury for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their Resolution 13: Re-appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte as auditor existing shareholdings.
ofthe Company The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at The power set out in resolution 16 would be, similar to previous years, which accounts are laid before the shareholders.
It is therefore proposed limited to: a allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and that the auditor is appointed from the conclusion of the 2017 Annual offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which shares, or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, or b otherwise up accounts are laid before shareholders.
Following an annual review to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,635,680 representing 163,568,000 ofDeloittes performance, details of which are set out on page 76, ordinary shares.
theBoard recommends the re-appointment of Deloitte as the This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately 5% of the Companys auditor.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 2 March 2017, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
co. uk Shareholder information NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED In respect of the power under resolution 16 B, the Directors confirm their Special Business intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Ordinary Resolutions Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% of the Resolutions 19 and 20 issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee is seeking should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
shareholders approval of the Directors Remuneration Report the Directors Remuneration Report and the new Directors Remuneration Resolution 17 is intended to give the Company exibility to make non Policy theDirectors Remuneration Policy in Resolutions 19 and 20 pre-emptive issues of ordinary shares in connection with acquisitions and respectively, which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
other capital investments as contemplated by the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles.
The power under resolution 17 is in addition to The Directors are required to prepare the Directors Remuneration Report, that proposed by resolution 16 and would be limited to allotments or sales comprising an annual report detailing the remuneration of the Directors of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,635,680 representing and a statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The 163,568,000 ordinary shares in addition to the power set out in resolution Company is required to seek shareholders approval in respect of the 16.
This aggregate nominal amount represents an additional 5% of the contents of this report on an annual basis excluding the part containing issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The vote is an advisory one.
as at 2 March 2017, the latest practicable date prior to publication of The shareholders are separately asked to approve the Directors this Notice.
Remuneration Policy which is set out on pages 82 to 84 of the Annual The powers under resolutions 16 and 17 will expire at the earlier of Report and Accounts.
It is intended that this will take effect immediately 26 July 2018 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the after the Annual General Meeting and will replace the current policy that Company held in 2018. was approved by shareholders in 2014 which is due to expire this year.
It is anticipated that the Directors Remuneration Policy will be in force for three Resolution 18: Authority to make market purchases of shares years although we will closely monitor regulatory changes and market Any purchases under this authority would be made in one or more trends and, if necessary, we may present a revised policy to shareholders tranches and would be limited in aggregate to 10% of the ordinary shares within that three year period should it become necessary to do so.
The of the Company in issue at the close of business on 2 March 2017.
Directors Remuneration Policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the views of our The minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an main institutional shareholders.
ordinary share is 1 pence per ordinary share.
The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of the authority would notexceed the highest of i Resolution 21 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Companys The Committee is seeking shareholders approval for the Taylor Wimpey ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date 2017 Performance Share Plan the New Plan in resolution 21, which will of the purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out.
Shares purchased pursuant to these The Committee has recently undertaken a review of the terms of the authorities could be held as treasury shares, which the Company can Companys existing long term incentive arrangement for Executive re-issue quickly and cost-effectively, and provides the Company with Directors and other selected senior management the Taylor Wimpey additional exibility in the management of its capital base.
The total number Performance Share Plan the Existing Plan and concluded that it would of shares held as treasury shall not at any one time exceed 10% of the be appropriate to introduce the New Plan as a replacement arrangement.
Accordingly, any shares bought back This is based on the fact that the Existing Plan is due to expire in 2018, over the 10% limit will be cancelled.
The Company currently holds no namely ten years after being approved by shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
As set out on pages 78 to 79, the Committee therefore believes it to be appropriate to put in place the New Plan a year early, so as to coincide This is a standard resolution, sought by the majority of public listed with the proposed new Directors Remuneration Policy referred to above.
companies at Annual General Meetings.
The Boards current intention of The New Plan is based on the Companys Existing Plan but with utilising this authority is generally limited to acquiring shares for the various appropriate variations to take account of prevailing best practice share scheme arrangements.
The Board would only consider a more expectations and market practice.
Subject to shareholder approval, the formal share purchase programme if it would result in an increase in New Plan will be used for future grants and no further grants will be made earnings per share and was in the best interests of shareholders generally, under the Existing Plan.
having regard to all relevant circumstances.
In developing the New Plan, the Committee has consulted with the The total number of options and conditional share awards to subscribe for Companys main institutional shareholders.
ordinary shares outstanding as at the close of business on 2 March 2017 was 31,959,758, representing approximately 1.0% of the issued ordinary If approved, the Committee intends to make the first awards under the share capital of the Company as at that date and approximately 1.1% of New Plan in or around March April 2018. the Companys issued ordinary share capital following any exercise in full of A summary of the principal terms of the New Plan is set out in the this authority to make market purchases.
Appendix to this Notice of Annual General Meeting.
This authority will last until the earlier of 26 October 2018 and the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2018.
160 Taylor Wimpey plc Resolution 22: Authority to make political donations APPENDIX In order to comply with its obligations under the Companies Act 2006 SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL TERMS OF THE andto avoid any inadvertent infringement of that Act, the Board wishes TAYLOR WIMPEY 2017 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN torenew its existing authority for a general level of political donation and or expenditure.
Resolution 22 seeks to renew the existing authority for the Introduction Company to make political donations and incur political expenditure.
The Taylor Wimpey 2017 Performance Share Plan hereinafter the New TheCompanies Act 2006 requires this authority to be divided into three Plan will be administered by the Remuneration Committee the heads as set out in Resolution 22 with a separate amount specified Committee ofthe Companys board of directors the Board.
An amount not exceeding 250,000 for each head The Committee may grant awards to acquire Shares within six weeks of the authority has been proposed.
In accordance with the Companies following the Companys announcement of its results for any financial Act 2006, Resolution 22 extends approval to all of the period.
The Committee may also grant awards within six weeks of Companys subsidiaries.
shareholder approval of the Plan or at any other time when the Committee This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting considers there are sufciently exceptional circumstances which justify the ofthe Company in 2018, unless renewal is sought at that meeting.
The Company and the Group do not make any donations to political The Committee may grant awards over ordinary Shares in the form of parties or organisations and do not intend to going forward, but do conditional share awards or nil priced options.
support certain industry-wide bodies such as the Home Builders The Committee may also grant cash-based awards of an equivalent value Federation in the UK.
Whilst the Board does not regard this as political to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash, although innature, in certain circumstances such support together with donations it does not currently intend to do so.
made for charitable or similar purposes could possibly be treated as a donation to a political organisation under the relevant provisions of the No consideration is payable by the participant for the grant or on the Companies Act 2006.
For example, a donation to a humanitarian charity vesting of awards.
which may also operate as a political lobby, sponsorship, subscriptions, paid leave to employees fullling public duties and payments to industry Eligibility representative bodies could constitute a donation to a political organisation Awards under the New Plan may be made to any employee of the within the current denitions in the Companies Act 2006.
Company and its subsidiaries the Group, including Executive Directors, selected atthe discretion of the Committee.
Details of the Companys and the Groups charitable donations appear onpage 100 of the Report and Accounts.
Life of Plan No awards may be granted more than 10 years after approval of the New Special Resolution Plan by shareholders.
Resolution 23: Notice of general meetings Individual grant limit Special resolutions require at least a 75% majority of votes cast tobecastin favour.
An individual may ordinarily not be granted awards in any financial yearover Shares having a market value at the award date in excess This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore of300% ofthe individuals annual base salary 200% in the case requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 have increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days unless The Committee may, in exceptional circumstances, exercise its discretion shareholders agree to a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than to grant an award to an Executive Director in excess of the maximum 14 clear days.
At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, a resolution was quantum.
Any such enhanced award will not exceed 300% of base salary.
passed approving the Companys ability to call general meetings other Share capital limits than Annual General Meetings, which will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice on not less than 14 clear days notice.
As this Awards under the New Plan may be granted over new issue Shares, approval will expire at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting, treasury Shares or Shares purchased on the market through an employee Resolution 23 proposes its renewal.
The shorter notice period of 14 clear benefit trust.
days would not be used as a matter of routine for any general meeting, No awards shall be granted under the New Plan if as a result the total butonly where the exibility is merited by the business of a particular number of Shares issued and issuable pursuant to awards granted under meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
the Plan or issued or issuable under any other employee share plan Therenewed approval will be effective until the Companys Annual General operated by any company in the Group in the previous 10 years excluding Meeting in 2018, when it is intended that a similar resolution will any rights which have lapsed or been forfeited under such plans would be proposed.
exceed 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the time.
Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear No awards shall be granted under the New Plan if as a result the total days notice, the Company must in respect of that meeting make available number of Shares issued and issuable pursuant to awards granted under electronic voting to all shareholders.
the New Plan or issued or issuable under any other discretionary share plan operated by any company in the Group in the previous 10 years excluding any rights which have lapsed or been forfeited under such plans would exceed 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital atthe time.
The above limits include new issue Shares and treasury Shares unlessinstitutional investor guidelines provide that treasury Shares need not count but not Shares purchased on the market through an employee benefit trust.
