Shareholder information NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Vesting of awards and performance conditions Cessation of employment The extent of vesting of awards granted to the Companys Executive If a participant ceases to be employed within the Group before the expiry Directors will be subject to performance conditions set by the Committee of the relevant performance period by reason of his: and may be so in the case of awards to others.
death: Awards subject to performance conditions will normally vest at the end disability: ofa performance period of not less than three years or, if later, as soon as ill health: the Committee has determined the extent to which the applicable injury: performance conditions have been met.
Shorter performance periods may the Company or business in which the participant is employed ceasing apply in relation to awards granted to individuals that are not Executive to be part of the Group: or Directors of the Company.
other reasons, at the discretion of the Committee, Awards granted under the New Plan that are not subject to performance conditions will normally vest at the end of a specified vesting period.
then the participants award will vest on the date when it would have vested if he had not ceased such employment or ofce or such earlier date Where awards are granted in the form of nil priced options, once vested, as the Committee may determine.
The extent to which an award will vest such options will then be exercisable up until the tenth anniversary of grant in these situations will depend upon two factors: i the extent to which the orsuch shorter period specified by the Committee at the time of grant performance conditions if any have, in the opinion of the Committee, unless they lapse earlier.
Shorter exercise periods shall apply in the been satisfied over the original performance measurement period or case of good leavers and or vesting of awards in connection with curtailed period as relevant : and ii pro-rating of the award to reect the corporate events.
proportion of the performance period or vesting period as relevant For the first awards granted under the New Plan to the Companys elapsed as at the time of cessation, although the Committee can decide to Executive Directors and other Senior Management, the vesting of such pro-rate an award to a lesser extent including as to nil if it regards it as awards will be subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions appropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Any awards that do comprising measures of: i relative total shareholder return: ii return on not vest shall immediately lapse.
capital employed: iii cash conversion: and iv profit before interest and Corporate events tax, each measured over a performance period comprising three financial years of the Company starting with the current financial year.
In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or voluntary winding upof the Company other than an internal corporate reorganisation, all The terms of the performance conditions for awards granted to the unvested awards will vest immediately.
The part of each award which vests Companys Executive Directors shall be set in line with the Directors will be determined by the Committee: i to the extent that the applicable Remuneration Policy.
performance conditions have been satisfied: and ii on such timeThe Committee may vary or waive the performance conditions applying apportioned basis as the Committee reasonably considers appropriate toany award if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider although the Committee may decide not to pro-rate an award or to that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, pro-rate to a lesser extent if it regards it as appropriate to do so in the provided the Committee considers it would be reasonable to do so in the particular circumstances.
Unless the Committee in its absolute discretion circumstances other than where the performance conditions are waived determines otherwise, any unvested awards shall lapse.
and the varied performance conditions produce a fairer measure of In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation under which the performance and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
persons owing shares are substantially the same before and after, awards The Committee may review the performance conditions for each grant will be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding ofawards and may apply different conditions to future awards, provided company, unless the Committee decides that awards should vest on the inthe case of awards to Executive Directors they remain no less basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
challenging, are aligned with the interests of shareholders and are at all Dividend equivalents times in accordance with approved Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Committee may decide that participants will receive a payment Before the vesting of any awards made under the Plan, by way of a incash and or Shares of an amount equivalent to the dividends that financial underpin the Remuneration Committee will also consider the would have been payable on an awards vested Shares between the date overall financial performance of the Company.
of grant and the vesting of the award or if later, and only whilst the award remains unexercised in respect of vested Shares, the expiry of any holding Holding Period period.
This amount may assume the reinvestment of dividends and shall The terms of the New Plan require that Executive Directors and any other be paid at the same time as the delivery of the related vested Shares participants as the Committee may require will ordinarily be required orcash payment as relevant.
to retain any vested Shares on an after-tax basis acquired under the Plan or, where relevant, the full number of the vested Shares whilst held Variation of share capital under an unexercised but vested award for at least the two years In the event of any variation of the Companys ordinary share capital, following vesting.
ademerger or payment of a special dividend, or such other circumstances as the Committee consider appropriate, the Committee may make such Exceptionally, the Committee may, in its discretion, allow such participants adjustment to the number of ordinary Shares subject to an award as to sell, transfer, assign or dispose of some or all of these Shares before the itconsiders fair and reasonable.
end of the holding period, subject to such additional terms and conditions as the Committee may specify.
162 Taylor Wimpey plc Participants rights Awards are not transferable, except to a participants legal personal representatives on the participants death.
Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until the awards have vested and the participants have received their Shares.
However, at the discretion of the Committee, participants may receive a payment in cash and or Shares on or shortly following the vesting of their awards of an amount equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on those Shares between the time when the awards were granted and the vesting date.
Any Shares allotted when an award vests will rank equally with Shares then in issue, except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior totheir allotment.
Awards do not count as part of participants pensionable salaries for the purpose of employers contributions to any Group pension schemes orother benets.
Alterations to the Plan The Board, on the recommendation of the Committee, may at any time amend the provisions of the Plan in any respect, provided that the prior approval of Shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the benefit of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits onparticipation, the overall limits on the issue of Shares, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares tobe acquired and the adjustment of awards.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control, securities law or regulatory treatment for participants or for any Company in the Group.
Recovery and withholding The Committee may apply the Plans recovery and withholding provisions if, within three years of the vesting of an award, it is discovered that there has been a material misstatement of the Companys financial results, anerror of calculation including on account of inaccurate or misleading information or in the event of serious misconduct.
The recovery and withholding may be satisfied by way of a reduction in the amount of any future bonus, subsisting award or future share awards and or a requirement to make a cash payment.
The discovery period may be extended by the Committee for an additional period of two years in the event of ongoing investigation as at the expiry ofthe normal three year discovery period.
Overseas plans The Board may at any time, without further shareholder approval, establish further sub-plans in overseas territories.
Any such sub-plan must be similar to the Plan but may be modied to takeaccount of local tax, exchange control, securities law or regulations.
AnyShares made available under such sub-plans shall be counted towards the limits on individual and overall participation in the Plan.
co. uk Shareholder information SHAREHOLDER FACILITIES Shareholders services tel: 44 0 371664 0381.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will Web communications becharged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open between Shareholders have previously passed a resolution enabling the Company 9:00am and 5:30 pm Monday to Friday excluding public holidays to make documents and information available to shareholders by inEngland and Wales.
electronic means and via a website, rather than by sending hard copies.
This way of communicating is enabled in accordance with the Companies Dividend mandates Act 2006, Rule 6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the We strongly encourage all shareholders to receive their cash dividends Companys Articles of Association.
bydirect transfer to a bank or building society account.
This ensures that dividends are credited promptly to shareholders without the cost and Making documents and information available electronically: inconvenience of having to pay in dividend cheques at a bank.
If you wish Enables the Company to reduce printing and postage costs.
to use this cost-effective and simple facility, complete and return the dividend mandate form attached to your dividend cheque.
Additional Allows faster access to information and enables shareholders to access mandate forms may be obtained from Capita Asset Services.
documents on the day they are published on the Companys website.
Reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, and Duplicate share register accounts lessens the impact of printing and mailing activities on the environment.
If you are receiving more than one copy of our Report and Accounts, The Company provides hard copy documentation to those shareholders itmay be that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our who have requested this and is, of course, happy to provide hard copies Register of Members.
You might wish to consider merging them into one to any shareholders upon request.
Please contact Capita Asset Services who will be pleased tocarry out your instructions in this regard.
The Companys website is www.
co. uk and shareholder documentation made available electronically is generally accessible Share dealing services atwww.
co. uk corporate  We have arranged both telephone and online share dealing services.
Capita Share Dealing Services allows you to buy and sell shares in a large Electronic communications number of companies that have Capita as their registrar.
The services The Company also encourages shareholders to elect to receive notication areoperated by Capita Asset Services.
To use the services either visit of the availability of Company documentation by means of an email.
Calls are Shareholders can sign up for this facility by logging onto our website charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
co. uk corporate  electronicoutside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international communications rate.
Lines are open between 8:00 am and 4:30 pm Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
To deal, you will need Online facilities for shareholders toprovide your surname, postcode, date of birth and investor code You can access our Annual and Interim Reports and copies of recent whichcan be found on your share certicate or any form of proxy you shareholder communications online at: www.
Shareholders are not in any way obliged to use this corporate investor-relations reporting-centre service when dealing in the Companys shares.
To register for online access, go to www.
co. uk corporate  and click on the service you require.
To access Taylor Wimpey and CREST some of these services you will first be required to apply online.
Taylor Wimpey shares can be held in CREST accounts, which do not require share certicates.
This may make it quicker and easier for some Once you have registered for access, you can make online enquiries about shareholders to settle stock market transactions.
Shareholders who deal your shareholding and advise the Company of changes in personal details.
infrequently may, however, prefer to continue to hold their shares in Dividend Re-Investment Plan certicated form and this facility will remain available for the time being, pending the likely general introduction of dematerialised shareholdings You can choose to invest your cash dividends, including any special indue course.
dividend, in purchasing Taylor Wimpey shares on the market under the terms of the Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP.
For further information Taylor Wimpey share price on the Plan and how to join, contact Capita Asset Services.
Our share price is printed in many of the UK daily newspapers and Shareholders are again reminded to check the position with regard to any isalsoavailable on our website at www.
dividend mandates that are in place, should you either wish to participate It appears on BBC Text and other digital television interactive services.
in the DRIP or discontinue or vary any participation, as existing mandates It may also be obtained by telephoning the FT Cityline service on telephone will apply to all dividend payments including special dividends unless or 44 0 9058 171690 and ask for Taylor Wimpey onthe voice activated until revoked.
response calls cost 75p per minute from a BT landline, other networks may vary.
CREST The Company offers shareholders who hold their Taylor Wimpey shares Gifting shares to charity inCREST a facility for the receipt of dividends through the CREST system.
If you have a small holding of Taylor Wimpey plc shares, you may wish to For shares held in uncerticated form CREST, please note that elections consider gifting them to charity.
You can do so through ShareGift, which continue to apply only to one dividend and a fresh election must be made, is administered by a registered charity, Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited.
via CREST, for each dividend.
Shares gifted are re-registered in the name of the charity, combined with other donated shares and then sold through stockbrokers who charge no Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions commission.
The proceeds are distributed to a wide range of recognised required to make or revoke an election, both in respect of maintenance charities.
For further details, please contact Capita Asset Services dividends i. e. in this case, the 2016 final dividend and any special orapproach ShareGift directly on www.
org or telephone them dividends, are available at www.
com or on request on 44 0 20 7930 3737. fromthe Registrar, Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, email: shares@capita.
co. uk 164 Taylor Wimpey plc Unsolicited approaches to shareholders and Boiler Room scams PRINCIPAL OPERATING ADDRESSES We receive reports from time to time from Taylor Wimpey shareholders who have each received what appear to be fraudulent approaches from UK third parties with respect to their shareholding in the Company.
In some Taylor Wimpey plc cases these are cold calls and in others correspondence.
They generally Gate House, Turnpike Road purport to be from a rm of solicitors or an investment company and offer, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire or hold out the prospect of, large gains on Taylor Wimpey shares or other HP12 3NR investments you may hold.
Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 The approaches normally include the seeking of an advance payment from Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 the shareholder, the disclosure of the shareholders bank details or the sale of an unrelated investment.
Shareholders are advised to be extremely wary E-mail: twplc@taylorwimpey.
com of such approaches and advised to only deal with rms authorised by the Website: www.
co. uk UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
More information is available on Registered in England ourwebsite www.
co. uk corporate  and Wales number 296805 boiler-room-scams and you can check whether an enquirer is properly authorised and report scam approaches by contacting the FCA Details of all our operating locations are available on our website on www.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey UK Limited Annual General Meeting Gate House, Turnpike Road 11:00 am on 27 April 2017 at: High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire The British Medical Association, BMA House, HP12 3NR TavistockSquare, London, WC1H 9JP.
Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 Latest date for receipt of proxy instructions for the 2017 Annual Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 GeneralMeeting: 11:00 am on 25 April 2017.
Spain Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. and Registered Ofce C Aragon, 223-223A James Jordan 07008 Palma fide Mallorca Mallorca Gate House Turnpike Road Spain High Wycombe Tel: 34 971 706972 Buckinghamshire Fax: 34 971 706565 HP12 3NR Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 E-mail: james.
com Registrar For any enquiries concerning your shareholding or details of shareholder services, please contact: Further information online Capita Asset Services The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU E-mail: shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk Tel: 0871 664 0300 UK Tel: 44 0 371 664 0300 from overseas Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open between 9:00 am and 5:30 pm Monday View our Annual Report and Accounts online: to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
co. uk corporate Auditors Further information about our sustainability activities and Deloitte LLP policies can be found within our dedicated Sustainability Report on our website.
co. uk corporate Slaughter and May Stockbrokers J. P. Morgan Cazenove 165 Jefferies Hoare Govett taylorwimpey.
co. uk This document is printed on UPM Finesse Silk and UPM Fine Offset: both papers containing virgin bre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certied forests.
This is a certied CarbonNeutral publication.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Printed by Park Communications on FSC certied paper.
