o DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance STATEMENTS Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual integrity of the corporate and financial information included Report and the group and parent company financial statements on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and DIRECTORS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company FINANCIAL REPORT financial statements on the same basis.
We, the Directors of the Company, whose names and Under company law the Directors must not approve the functions are set out on page 38, confirm that to the best of financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a our knowledge: true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair each of the group and parent company financial statements, the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Directors are required to: loss of the company and the undertakings included in the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consolidation taken as a whole: and consistently: the Strategic Report Directors Report includes a fair make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and review of the development and performance of the business prudent: and the position of the issuer and the undertakings state whether they have been prepared in accordance with included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis that they face.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
We consider the Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain position and performance, business model and strategy.
the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial R S Kelvin L D Page statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably 17 March 2016 17 March 2016 open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
59 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 o Pearlea Opalescent
