DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss for the group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare a directors repor t and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
WEBSITE PUBLICATION The directors are responsible for ensuring the annual report and the financial statements are made available on a website.
Financial statements are published on the Companys website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the responsibility of the directors.
The directors responsibility also extends to the integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES PURSUANT TO DTR4 The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Inter national Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Group: and the annual repor t includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the Group and the parent company, together with a description or the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
82 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
For and on behalf of the Board Charles Wigoder Executive Chairman 13 June 2016 Nick Schoenfeld Chief Financial Officer 13 June 2016 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 83
