STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SUMMARY OF RESULTS 2016 2015 % 000 000 change Assets as at 31 December Net assets 879, 940 755,755 1 6.4% Ordinary Shares Net asset value per share with debt at book value 1,315.8 4p 1,130.14p 1 6.4% Net asset value per share with debt at market value 1,298.0 1p 1,115.46p 16.
4% Market price 1,223.00p 1,052.00p 16.3% Discount w ith debt at book value 7.1% 6.9% Discount w ith debt at market value 5.8 % 5.6% Revenue for the year ended 31 December Revenue return attributable to ordinary shareholders 29,2 53 26,663 Revenue return per ordinary share 43.7 4p 39.87p Dividends per ordinary share interim and proposed final 40.45p 39.66p 2.0% Capital for the year ended 31 December Capital return attributable to ordinary shareholders 121,75 1 38,877 Capital return attributable per ordinary share 182.06p 58.14p Net gearing 2.4 % 3.8% Ongoing charges 0.51% 0.49% Total Returns for the year to 31 December 2016 Return on share price 20.7 Return on net assets 20.4 Return on gross assets 18.6 Return on FTSE AllShare Index 16.8 Change in Retail Prices Index over year 2.5 Dividend Yields Net as at 31 December 2016 Yield on ordinary share price 1,223p 3.3 Yield on FTSE All-Share Index 3.5 fide ned as total assets less current liabilities excluding maturi ng debt and cash or cash equivalents including gilt holdings divide d by shareholders funds expressed as a percentage.
fide ned as the total of the investment management fee and administrative expenses divided by the average cum income net asset value throughout the year.
Based on the three interim dividends paid during the year together with the recommended final dividend for the year.
BENCHMARK CAPITAL STRUCTURE Performance is measured Ordinary Shares 66,872,765 against the FTSE All-Share Index.
9.875% Debenture Stock 2017 25,000,000 5.5% Debenture Stock 2021 38,000,000 TOTAL ASSETS LESS 4.05% Private Placement Loan 2028 50,000,000 CURRENT LIABILITIES 968,790,000 VOTING STRUCTURE Ordinary shares 100% TOTAL EQUITY 879,9 40,000 MARKET CAPITALISATION 817,854,000 With debenture and loan stocks at book value TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 1 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The latter part or 2016 has begun to see the value investment style, central to Temple Bars investment process, returning to favour.
PERFORMANCE The Managers review on pages 4 to 7 sets out some of the themes driving portfolio construction during the year.
For a number of years, conditions in global investment By any conventional yardstick 2016 bore witness to some markets have caused the contrarian value investment style extraordinary outcomes on the political front, signi cantly to underperform.
While all investment styles are cyclical, this shaping the direction of markets.
In this context the portfolio period of weak performance by the value investment style manager comments on some of the positive and negative has been unduly protracted, in part because of central bank contributors to performance at an individual stock level.
action to maintain interest rates at unprecedentedly low levels.
There are now emerging signs that that this period is DIVIDEND drawing to a close and I am pleased to report that the latter part of 2016 has begun to see the value investment style, There have been three interim dividend payments during central to Temple Bars investment process, returning to the year each of 8.09p per share and the directors are favour.
In terms of the Temple Bar portfolio this manifested now recommending a final dividend payment for the year itself in out-performance relative to its benchmark index ended 31 December 2016 of 16.18p per share to be paid during the year.
The total return on the net assets of Temple on 31 March 2017 to those shareholders on the register as Bar in 2016 was 20.4% which compares with a total return of at 1 0 March 2017.
The ex-dividend date for this payment is the FTSE All Share Index of 16.8%.
In the longer term Temple 9 March 2017.
If approved this would give an increase in the Bar continues to outperform its benchmark over both five total dividend payment for the year as a whole of 2% and and ten year periods.
would be the 33rd consecutive year in which the Company has raised its annual dividend payment.
GEARING In recent years the Companys xed long term borrowings have largely been offset by a fairly high cash or near cash position on the portfolio while the portfolio manager patiently waited for more interesting investment opportunities to appear.
The position was unchanged throughout most of 2016 such that at the year end, gearing calculated net of cash and related liquid assets, including our investment in a UK short dated gilt was 2.4 %.
SHARE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Shareholders may recall that discounts in the UK Equity Income sector generally widened during the course of 2015.
This trend was continued into 2016 as discounts in the sector increased further.
Temple Bar was not immune to this process: at the year end its discount stood at 5.8%.
I reiterate my observation from last year that the Board is prepared to undertake share buy backs if the discount widens both in absolute terms and relative to the Companys peer group.
While no share repurchase took place during the year, the Board therefore recommends that the existing authorities to issue new ordinary shares and to repurchase shares in the market for cancellation or to hold in Treasury be continued.
Accordingly it is seeking approval from shareholders to renew the share issue and repurchase authorities at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 2 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The 3 3rd consecutive year in which the Company has raised its annual dividend payment.
THE BOARD ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Board remained unchanged throughout the year but The AGM this year will be held at 2 Gresham Street, London in January 2017 Nick Lyons was appointed as an additional EC2V 7QP on Monday 27 March 2017 at 11am.
I am delighted to welcome Nick to the Board this is a change in the address of the meeting from that of and I am con dent that with his wealth of experience, the past few years.
In addition to the formal business of particularly in the financial sector, he will make a valuable the meeting the portfolio manager will, as usual, make a contribution to the Company in the coming years.
presentation reviewing the past year and commenting on the outlook.
He will also be available to answer questions Every year the Board undertakes a thorough evaluation alongside the directors.
Shareholders who are unable to of each director, including myself as Chairman.
In line attend are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
with best practice in this regard, all directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
I refer you to the OUTLOOK directors biographies on page 16 for further details.
The dramatic political events of 2016, together with their unpredictable impact on investment markets, SAVINGS SCHEME indicate that any form of forecasting is fraught with Towards the end of the year, having received notice from risk.
At the very least it is clear that a combination of the Administrator that it did not wish to continue in that Brexit and a change in the US Administration is likely to role, the Board took the dif cult decision that the most cause continuing uncertainties, potentially leading to a sensible course of action was to close the Savings Scheme, slowdown in economic activity in the UK.
The portfolio almost 30 years after it was first established.
It was clear manager will continue to seek to invest in companies that that the ever-increasing amount of regulation involved are undervalued by the market and where the potential with the management and administration of schemes of for improvement exists irrespective of shorter term this nature meant that nding a cost effective alternative uncertainties.
service provider was not possible.
It was therefore decided to offer existing investors in the Scheme the option, amongst others, of transferring their investment in Temple John Reeve Bar to a share dealing platform with similar characteristics Chairman managed by Equiniti, the outgoing Administrator.
1 7 February 2017 TEN YEAR RECORD 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total assets less current liabilities 000 557,712 422,408 553,392 603,444 585,480 664,648 905,775 913,198 869,535 968, 790 Net assets 000 494,340 359,020 489,988 540,022 522,040 601,191 792,070 799,444 755,755 879,9 40 Net assets per ordinary share pence 847.33 612.76 831.03 915.89 874.42 992.86 1,250.84 1,195.47 1,130.14 1,315.8 4 Revenue return to ordinary shareholders 000 19,361 20,614 20,017 18,915 22,552 24,873 22,274 25,782 26,663 29,2 53 Revenue return per share pence 33.19 35.33 33.98 32.08 38.08 41.39 36.17 39.82 39.87 43.7 4 Dividends per share pence 30.98 32.84 33.50 34.20 35.23 36.65 37.75 38.88 39.66 40.45 Interim s and proposed final for the year TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 3 MANAGERS REVIEW A review of a year typically offers fund managers an ideal Having highlighted the extreme unpopularity of value stocks opportunity to explain how events unravelled as expected the portfolio was reasonably well placed for their return to and how their portfolios were placed perfectly to bene t. favour, although as usual we were too early in committing However, in 2016 its reasonable to assume few managers ourselves.
predicted Brexit and the Trump presidential victory, never Most of the very best performers in the UK market last mind the markets reactions to these events.
If this provides year were mining stocks, which partially recovered some a lesson, it simply reminds us of the dangers of building a dreadful underperformance of previous years.
The portfolio portfolio around a precise forecast, particularly with the aim participated in some of this rally by virtue of holdings in the of maximising short-term returns.
silver company, Fresnillo which rose over 70% during the year, Probably of greater relevance to forecasting correctly share and the VanEck Gold Mining Exchange Traded Fund which price performance in 2016 was the observation at the start rose almost 50%.
However, the portfolios only meaningful of the year that the cheapest stocks in the market value industrial metal holding was Rio Tinto and even this was sold stocks had fallen to valuation extremes, speci cally when very early in the rally.
We struggle to value mining companies compared with stocks exhibiting very low historic price with suf cient con dence for us to take large holdings.
Their volatility or those deemed to be of the highest quality valuations are very sensitive to the prices of the commodities stocks operating under the soubriquet of bond proxies.
they mine, most of which are currently very reliant on This relationship did reverse in the first part of the year, but demand generated by the Chinese economy.
There has been the bene t was quickly lost during the market volatility post very high private sector debt growth in China in recent years the Brexit vote.
A more sober assessment of the resulting and similar rates of debt growth in other economies have price movements or merely a re ection of their severity typically resulted in sub-par economic growth, recessions or subsequently produced another value recovery which was even economic crises.
supported by the increase in government bond yields after Our favoured investments are companies positioned to Trumps victory.
We were a bit cautious about investing fully bene t from self-help and which are, in the main, masters at this time due to our perception of stretched valuations, of their fortune.
Of course, one could argue that most notwithstanding short-term price falls.
companies are exposed to the vagaries of the economic cycle, but at least there is a reasonably dependable cycle upon which to base an estimate of a companys average earnings.
Resources companies are probably the most removed from this framework.
ACTIVITY Over the last few years the portfolio has held two food retailers, Tesco and Wm Morrison, both of which are now recovering after their poor trading experience of previous years.
We invested in these two companies as we believed they could outperform the very competitive food retail ALASTAIR MUNDY Alastair is head of the Value Team at Investec Asset Management having joined in 2000 from Morley Fund Management.
In addition to Temple Bar Investment Trust, Alastair manages a number of funds including the Investec Cautious Managed Fund and the Investec UK Special Situations Fund.
Alastair graduated from City University in 1988 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Actuarial Science.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 4 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Its reasonable to assume few managers predicted Brexit and the Trump presidential victory, never mind the markets reactions to these events.
market rather than because we thought that the sales pool arti cially in ated by a reasonably unstable cartel.
Whats of this mature market was likely to increase signi cantly or more, the long-term outlook for oil is questionable as the that industry pro tability would greatly exceed previous search for cheaper and more environmentally friendly peaks.
Whilst we retain this view, there is now evidence of alternatives evolves.
This raises the probability of the improving market dynamics with lower capital expenditure lowest cost producers such as Saudia Arabia being left and the return of food price in ation.
Just as importantly, with extensive stranded assets and therefore increases the the larger retailers are competing more successfully against risk of them pumping more oil even if that causes a lower the discounters.
The discounters have grown market share price.
Against this rather bleak long-term outlook is the by selling good quality food at very low prices, retailed in opportunity for the major oil companies to nd operational low cost formats, but the incumbents are now pricing much ef ciencies.
In the last few years they have cut costs faster more keenly, have improved product quality and increased than expected and are con dent that more can be done.
Consequently, the extraordinary sales cash ow can be improved further by containing large scale and pro ts growth of the discounters ha five probably peaked capital expenditure and focusing on optimising returns and the markets assumption of sizeable market share from current assets the security of the dividends will increases over the next few years may be too optimistic.
The shares of these companies bounced strongly during the year re ecting operational improvements, dollar This increases our con dence that the larger food retailers strength and a recovery in the oil price.
With the two way can continue their recovery and so we have added pull in mind and given the share price strength we reduced J Sainsbury to the portfolio.
Sainsburys valuation has begun our holdings in both BP and Royal Dutch Shell in 2016. to look somewhat anomalous versus that of its peers: in enterprise value terms i. e. equity value plus the groups Given the increasingly bold actions of central bankers in net debt, Sainsbury is currently valued at approximately recent years, we have long felt it prudent to hold insurance 25% of its sales whereas both Morrison and Tesco are of some form on the portfolio.
The authorities seem eager valued at more than 40% of their revenues.
Sainsburys to outlaw both recessions and bear markets, and on this purchase of the Home Retail Group, the owner of Argos, measure their strategy has been successful since the Global could prove to be a compelling deal as it will allow the Financial Crisis.
However, the long term cost is unknown.
group to make more productive use of its excess space and We remain convinced that the authorities have a longerdrive signi cant footfall, whilst creating an enterprise with term strategy of minimising the cost of future liabilities more than 2,000 collection points.
The Argos deal clearly and thus want to generate higher levels of in ation.
They has some risks both in terms of being a management appear con dent a combination of traditional interest rate distraction and pushing Sainsbury more into competition moves and more modern unconventional policies will both with Amazon but we feel these are adequately re ected in support economic growth and ne-tune the in ationary the share price.
Perhaps it will, but history suggests a less benign outcome and consequently we maintain exposure to We have long been aware of both the risks and attractions precious metals.
of the large integrated oil companies.
The companies are high cost producers of a commodity whose price is PORTFOLIO DISTRIBUTION % Temple Bar FTSE portfolio All-Share Index % % 13 1 Financials 23.
60 9.1 4 8 6 Basic Materials 5.62 6.86 7 7 Consumer Goods 4.3 2 14.39 8 Utilities 4.00 3.60 6 9 Physical Gold and Silver 2.96 2 10 Telecommunications 1.96 3.98 5 1 1 Technology 1.41 0.84 Total Equities 90.26 100.00 4 3 1 2 Fixed Interest 7.99 1 3 Cash 1.75 100.00 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 5 MANAGERS REVIEW CONTINUED The authorities seem eager to outlaw both recessions and bear markets, and on this measure their strategy has been successful.
In the second half of the year we switched some of our management team does not act quickly, it is possible that the physical gold holdings into silver.
We believe both metals very low valuation will attract some corporate interest.
will perform well if con dence in central bankers falls, but The largest individual performance detractor was RBS.
The we now have a preference for silver.
The current silver price companys road to recovery since its near-death experience insuf ciently incentivizes new silver mining and expectations has been tortuous and a number of potential fines and legal are for medium term supply to reduce.
The quality of silver payments of unknown quantity still overhang the business.
being mined is deteriorating and the cost of its extraction is The company is also struggling to sell the Williams & Glyn increasing.
This suggests that the silver price must increase retail banking business the EU forced it to off-load as a signi cantly to ensure that long-term supply matches consequence of the Government rescue operation.
news drove the shares lower and pushed back the likely WHAT WENT WRONG?
date for the reintroduction of dividend payments.
Rather than increasing our holding, we decided to complement the As always not everything went right during the year.
The RBS position by purchasing Barclays a share also suffering largest detractors from portfolio performance were building from very poor sentiment, but which was already paying a related stocks and RBS.
Following the lows of the post Brexit panic, both of these banks shares performed very well with the positive The builders merchant market has bounced less than contribution from Barclays cancelling out much of the predicted since the lows of the last recession.
Historically, negative contribution of RBS over the course of the year.
industry sales have been highly correlated to housing transaction volumes and these volumes remain fairly low WHAT WENT RIGHT?
A further depressant has been the changing ownership structure of the UK housing stock in Mention has already been made elsewhere of recoveries in recent years with a signi cant increase in rented stock: Barclays, Wm Morrison, Tesco, BP and precious metal shares.
stock on which the landlord is typically likely to spend less In addition, Best Buy a US electrical retailer performed well.
Both transaction volumes and repair, The company proved it could compete against Amazon, no maintenance and improvement of the housing stock have also doubt helped by the desire of its suppliers to see a strong been affected by the increasing number of under-occupied physical retail presence for its brands.
A bid was received for houses houses where the ageing owner is rattling around mining equipment manufacturer Joy Global, and Drax made a with a number of spare rooms, but reluctant or unable to well-received acquisition of some gas stations and an energy downsize.
supplier to businesses and also nally received EU state aid approval for its converted biomass plant.
It is clear that government policy is reducing the financial attractions to both new and current landlords through stamp The revenue account in particular bene ted from US dollar duty increases and some disadvantageous tax changes.
The strength given that a large proportion of total revenue Bank of England is also forcing banks to tighten buy-to let receipts are paid in US dollars.
mortgage criteria for new loans.
Whilst this may initially lead BREXIT to a reduction in transaction volumes, the changes are clearly designed to help prospective owner occupiers compete Much has been written about the pros, cons and against buy to let investors.
consequences of Brexit and it is fascinating to observe the certainty of the two camps views.
Undoubtedly to the We believe the builders merchant market remains structurally amusement of behavioural psychologists, each side appears sound with depressed demand ultimately likely to recover, to have become more entrenched since the vote.
It is clearly further consolidation probable in this reasonably fragmented impossible to tell how Brexit negotiations will evolve and market and IT spend and logistics improvements likely to given the breadth of possible outcomes it is simply pointless widen the advantage of the big players over smaller ones.
Our sizeable holdings in Travis Perkins and Grafton Group should bene t from these trends.
It is interesting, however, to re ect that the Bank of England and quite possibly the most senior members of As a distributor, primarily of insulation materials, SIG is the Conservative party is clearly apprehensive about the more exposed to the commercial property market than the downside risks of Brexit.
Since the Brexit vote, the Bank of builders merchants.
However, regardless of its business England has reduced the Bank Rate to 0.25%, expanded drivers, many of the companys problems appear selfquantitative easing and introduced a new funding scheme in icted, something recognized in recent management allowing banks to borrow funds from the Bank of England changes.
Although the company operates in some very more cheaply.
Meanwhile, Chancellor Hammond has competitive and commoditized markets, we would expect announced the end of the previous Chancellors objective the business could be run more entrepreneurially.
If the new TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 6 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 ST STR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO ORT RT GO GOVER VERN NANC ANCE E REPOR REPORT T F FIINANC financial IAL REPOR REPORT T SHAREHOL SHAREHOLDER DER INF INFO ORMA RMAT TION ION The valuation of the average UK listed stock remains high and consequently the number of portfolio holdings remains relatively low.
This suggests that the authorities excitement in recent years.
It is therefore promising that will react quickly if UK economic conditions deteriorate there is now more to interest us.
Well regarded companies or are believed likely to deteriorate, therefore making an such as Easyjet and Next have declining earnings for in ationary boom perhaps just as likely as a fide ationary reasons at least partially beyond their control, previous high bust.
iers such as Essentra, Mitie and Capita have signi cantly disappointed investors with poor pro t announcements, PORTFOLIO POSITIONING the likes of IG Group and International Personal Finance The bank sector remains the largest sector weighting in have been hit by regulatory issues and Sports Direct and the portfolio.
All the sector constituents have bounced Restaurant Group have come unstuck as their growth some distance from their lows, but valuations remain stories have dried up and management pushed too hard undemanding.
The twin evils of regulation and fines that to maintain pro tability.
All these companies have fairly have worried investors in recent years appear to be easing, straightforward business models and, therefore, we would balance sheets are stronger, underlying pro tability be comfortable investing in them at the right price.
So far, continues to be impressive and the potential for generous our patience has not been rewarded, but we are willing to dividend payments remains.
wait and indeed are often happiest to act when others are most fearful.
A bumpy 2017 could quite possibly allow us to Other signi cant exposures to food retailing and builders seize some of these prospects.
merchants companies are highlighted elsewhere.
We also have a notable exposure to general retailers through two US retailers, Best Buy and Signet Jewelers both covered Alastair Mundy in the interim report, perennial recovery stock Marks & For Investec Fund Managers Limited Spencer also covered in the interim report and smaller holdings in niche retailers N Brown plus sized clothes 1 7 February 2017 retailer and Games Workshop a miniature war-gaming manufacturer and retailer.
OUTLOOK A number of factors suggest that companies, in particular those exposed to the UK economy, will in general struggle to grow earnings over the next few years.
Minimum wage increases, the ratcheting cost effects of those employees higher up the pay scale, and skill shortages will boost labour costs, the weak pound will increase costs of imported products, many rental costs are linked to in ation, other costs such as business rates are increasing and new costs such as apprenticeship taxes are being introduced.
While other factors may off-set these rises, most companies have been very focussed on costs since the last recession.
In fact, a number of companies may well have under-invested in their businesses over this time.
One should probably not, however, be excessively bearish as the UK corporate tax rate continues to fall and, of course, companies will try and regain cost increases through in ation.
The valuation of the average UK listed stock remains high and consequently the number of portfolio holdings remains relatively low.
Over the last few years, commentators have justi ed high equity valuations by favourable comparison with low bond yields.
However, if the three decade reduction in bond yields is now over, this crutch may soon vanish.
Our opportunity set those stocks which have fallen signi cantly relatively to the market ha s offered little TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 7 ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS By stocks held in the portfolio Source: Factset TOP TEN CONTRIBUTORS BOTTOM TEN CONTRIBUTORS The bar charts above show the top and bottom contributors to total performance during the year from those stocks held in the portfolio.
Relative to the benchmark index Source: Factset TOP TEN CONTRIBUTORS BOTTOM TEN CONTRIBUTORS The bar charts above show the top and bottom contributors relative to the performance of the FTSE All-Share Index during the year and include the impact of stocks not held in the portfolio.
Both positive and negative relative performance can be derived from stocks that are not owned by Temple Bar.
Not held in portfolio TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 8 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 Barclays PLC Royal Dutch Shell Plc Class B 1.13% 3.63% Best Buy Co. Inc. BP plc 0.93% 2.97% Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc HSBC Holdings plc 0.85% 1.87% Joy Global Inc GlaxoSmithKline plc 0.77% 1.75% BP p. l. c. Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc 0.74% 1.41% VanEck Vectors Gold Miners ETF Best Buy Co. Inc. 0.71% 1.35% Drax Group plc 0.69% British American Tobacco p. l. c 1.32% Vodafone Group Plc Barclays PLC 0.56% 1.23% Fresnillo PLC VanEck Vectors Gold Miners ETF 0.53% 1.13% Gold Bullion Securities Ltd. 0.47% Drax Group plc 1.10% Grafton Group Plc Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc - 1.64% - 1.45% Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Grafton Group Plc - 1.11% - 1.63% SIG plc SIG plc - 1.18% - 0.73% Glencore plc Lloyds Banking Group plc - 1.01% - 0.72% Vallourec SA Marks and Spencer Group plc - 0.68% - 0.70% Lloyds Banking Group plc BT Group plc - 0.66% - 0.61% Marks and Spencer Group plc Vallourec SA - 0.60% - 0.44% Go-Ahead Group plc Anglo American plc - 0.26% - 0.54% BHP Billiton Plc British Land Company PLC - 0.47% - 0.19% Direct Line Insurance Group Plc Go-Ahead Group plc - 0.15% - 0.45% STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY The directors present the strategic report for the Company From time to time xed interest holdings or non for the year ended 31 December 2016. equity interests may be held for yield enhancement and other purposes.
Derivative instruments are used in The strategic report is designed to help shareholders assess certain circumstances, and with the prior approval of the how the directors have performed their duty to promote the Board, for hedging purposes or to take advantage of success of the Company during the year under review.
BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC was incorporated increasing returns to shareholders.
The Companys net in England and Wales in 1926 with the registered gearing range may uctuate between 0% and 30%, based number 214601. on the current balance sheet structure, with an absolute limit of 50%.
The Company carries on business as an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been As a general rule it is the Boards intention that the portfolio approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in should be reasonably fully invested.
An investment level of accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
90% of shareholder funds is regarded as a guideline minimum investment level dependent on market conditions.
The Companys principal business activity of investment management is sub-contracted to Investec Fund Managers Risk is managed through diversi cation of holdings, Limited IFM, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager investment limits set by the Board and appropriate financial of the Company.
IFM delegates the management of the and other controls relating to the administration of assets.
Companys portfolio to Investec Asset Management INVESTMENT APPROACH Limited IAM.
The investment approach of the Manager is premised on A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Statement a contrarian view on the timing of buy and sell decisions, and the Managers Review.
The results of the Company are buying the shares of companies when sentiment towards shown on page 34. them is thought to be near its worst and selling them as fundamental pro t improvement and or re-evaluation of INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE AND POLICY their long term prospects takes place.
The Companys investment objective is to provide growth The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in driving in income and capital to achieve a long term total return down the prices of out of favour companies to below their greater than the benchmark FTSE All-Share Index, through fair value will offer investment opportunities.
This will allow investment primarily in UK securities.
The Companys policy the Company to purchase shares at signi cant discounts to is to invest in a broad spread of securities with typically the their fair value and to sell them as they become more fully majority of the portfolio selected from the constituents of the valued, principally as a result of predictable patterns in FTSE 350 Index.
The UK equity element of the portfolio will be mostly invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional The Managers process is designed to produce best ideas positions may be sanctioned by the Board and up to 20% of to drive active fund management within a rigorous control the portfolio may be held in listed international equities in framework.
The framework begins through narrowing down developed economies.
The Company may continue to hold the universe of stocks by passing those companies with a securities that cease to be quoted or listed if the Manager market capitalisation above 200 million through a screening considers this to be appropriate.
There is an absolute process which highlights the weakest performing stocks.
limit of 10% of the portfolio in any individual stock with a This isolates opportunities with the most negative sentiment maximum exposure to a speci c industrial or commercial characteristics which are then in turn scrutinised in greater sector of 25%, in each case irrespective of their weightings detail to identify investment opportunities.
The process is very much bottom up and can result in large sector positions being taken if enough stocks of suf cient It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15% of its interest are found within a single sector.
However, top down gross assets in other listed investment companies including risk analysis is undertaken to identify potential concentration listed investment trusts.
of risk and to factor this awareness into portfolio construction.
The Company maintains a diversi ed portfolio of investments, The portfolio comprises stocks which have been purchased typically comprising 70-80 holdings, but without restricting for different reasons and at different times.
In general, the Company from holding a more or less concentrated because of the bottom up approach to stockpicking, each of portfolio from time to time as circumstances require.
these reasons is independent of the other and the portfolio, therefore, is not excessively vulnerable to longer term macro The Companys long term investment strategy emphasises: trends.
Cash is a residual of the process and normally will not exceed 5% of the portfolio value.
Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120-140% of that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
Stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose share prices do not match the Managers assessment of their longer term value.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 9 OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY CONTINUED The approach to stock selection and portfolio construction is KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS driven by four core beliefs: The principal key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the progress and performance of the Company 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and the over time, and which are comparable to those reported by downside.
The Manager aims to be sceptical of the crowd other investment trusts, are: and aware of investor psychology, which often causes Net asset value total return relative to the FTSE overvaluation of those stocks that are deemed to have All-Share Index and to competitors within the UK Equity good prospects and an undervaluation of those which are Income sector of investment trust companies: out of favour.
Discount premium on net asset value: 2.
There are few companies which sustain below normal Earnings and dividends per share: and pro ts over the longer term.
Weaker companies tend to leave an industry, thus improving the balance of supply Ongoing charges.
and demand, are bid for or management is changed.
Similarly, there are few companies which can sustain While some elements of performance against KPIs are supernormal pro ts over the longer term.
Such pro ts beyond management control they provide measures of tend to be competed or regulated away.
the Companys absolute and relative performance and are, therefore, monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant of share price performance over the long term.
In other words Net asset value NAV total return cheap stocks will outperform expensive stocks.
In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Companys portfolio the Board monitors the NAV in relation to the FTSE 4.
Diversi cation is an important control.
This is the most important KPI by which companies or sectors can be out of favour for a performance is judged.
During the year the net asset value considerable time.
total return of the Company was 20.4% compared with a total return of 16.8% by the FTSE All-Share Index.
The five year net PERFORMANCE asset value total return performance is shown below.
In the year to 31 December 2016 the net asset value total return of the Company was 20.4% compared with a total Net asset value total return return of the Companys benchmark index of 16.8%.
The 180 effect of removing gearing from the performance calculation is shown in the following graph of investment performance over a five year period compared with the FTSE All-Share 160 Index.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3 and the Managers Review on pages 4 to 7 include a review of developments during the year together with information on investment activity within the Companys portfolio and an 140 assessment of future developments.
Ungeared 5 year performance 120 180 100 160 80 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 140 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Temple Bar share price total return Temple Bar NAV total return FTSE All-Share Index total return 120 100 80 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sources: Thomson Reuters Datastream and IAM Temple Bar gross assets, excluding effects of gearing and associated costs FTSE All-Share Index - total return TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 10 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Discount on net asset value The portfolio will typically provide a yield premium to the market.
The final dividend recommended for the year is The Board monitors the premium discount at which the 16.18p per ordinary share which brings the total for the Companys shares trade in relation to the net assets.
year to 40.45p per ordinary share, an increase of 2%.
This During the year the shares traded at an average discount will be the 33rd consecutive year in which the Company has to NAV of 7.3%.
This compares with an average discount of increased the overall level of its dividend payment.
The Board and Manager closely monitor both movements in the Companys share price and 10 Year Comparative Dividend Growth signi cant dealings in the shares.
In order to avoid substantial overhangs or shortages of shares in the market the Board 140 asks shareholders to approve resolutions which allow for the buy back of shares and their issuance which can assist in the management of the discount or premium.
130 Discount premium to net asset value excluding current year revenue 5% 120 4% 3% 2% 110 1% 0% -1% 100 -2% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 -3% Source: Bloomberg -4% Temple Bar Retail Prices Index -5% -6% Ongoing charges -7% Ongoing charges is an expression of the Companys -8% management fees and other operating expenses as a -9% percentage of average daily net assets over the year.
The Board compares the Companys Source: Morningstar ongoing charges with those of its peers on a regular basis.
Cum income NAV, debt at market value At the present time the Company has one of the lowest ongoing charges in the UK Equity Income sector of investment trust companies.
Earnings and dividend per share It remains the directors intention to distribute, over time, by way of dividends substantially all of the Companys net revenue income after expenses and taxation, subject to preserving a prudent balance in revenue reserves to facilitate a smooth dividend progression.
The Manager aims to maximise total returns from the portfolio and attaches great importance to dividends in achieving total return.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 11 OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Company must also comply with the provisions of the Companies Act and, since its shares are listed on the London With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the a risk matrix which identi es the key risks to the Company.
Companies Act could result in the Company being ned or The Board reviews and agrees policies, which have remained subject to criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing unchanged since the beginning of the accounting period, for Rules could result in the Companys shares being suspended managing these risks, as summarised below.
from Listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, IAM, Investment strategy risk and its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the An inappropriate investment strategy on matters such Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and is satis ed that as asset allocation or the level of gearing may lead to they are able to provide an appropriate service in this regard.
underperformance against the Companys benchmark index or peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares Corporate governance and shareholder relations trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages such risks Details of the Companys compliance with corporate by diversi cation of investments through its investment governance best practice including information on restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and relations with shareholders, are set out in the corporate reported on by the Manager.
The Manager provides the governance report on pages 22 to 24 which forms part directors with regular management information including of this strategic report.
absolute and relative performance data, attribution analysis, revenue estimates, liquidity reports, risk pro le and Control systems risk shareholder analysis.
The Board monitors the implementation Disruption to, or failure of, IFMs accounting, dealing or and results of the investment process with the portfolio payments systems or the custodians records could prevent manager, who attends Board meetings.
Periodically the accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial Board holds a separate meeting devoted to strategy, the position or adversely impact the ability to trade.
Details of most recent being in January 2016. how the Board monitors the services provided by IFM and its associates and the key elements designed to provide Income risk dividends effective internal control are included within the internal Generating the necessary level of income from portfolio control section of the corporate governance report on investments to meet the Companys expenses and to page 22. provide adequate reserves from which to base a sustainable programme of increasing dividend payments to shareholders Other risks is subject to the risk that income generation from investments Other risks to which the Company is exposed and which fails to meet the level required.
The Board monitors this risk form part of the market risks referred to above are included through the receipt of detailed income reports and forecasts in note 22 to the financial statements together with which are considered at each meeting.
As at 31 December summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These 2016 the Company had distributable revenue reserves of comprise: market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, 32.0 million before declaration of the final dividend credit risk and currency risk.
VIABILITY STATEMENT Share price risk The Board makes an assessment of the longer term prospects The Companys share price and premium or discount to of the Company beyond the timeframe envisaged under NAV are monitored by the Manager and considered by the the going concern basis of accounting having regard to the Board on a regular basis.
The directors attach considerable Companys current position and the principal risks it faces.
importance to any premium or discount to NAV at which The Company is a long term investment vehicle and the the shares trade, both in absolute terms and relative to the directors, therefore, believe that it is appropriate to assess average rating at which the UK Equity Income sector of its viability over a long term horizon.
For the purposes of investment trusts as a whole is trading.
Premiums judged assessing the Companys prospects in accordance with Code to be excessive will be addressed by repeated share Provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the issues, either new or from Treasury.
Discounts judged to be Board considers that assessing the Companys prospects excessive will be addressed by repeated share buybacks, over a period of five years is appropriate given the nature of for Treasury or cancellation.
The directors are prepared to the Company and the inherent uncertainties of looking out be proactive in premium discount management to minimise over a longer time period.
The directors believe that a five potential disadvantages to shareholders.
However, market year period appropriately re ects the long term strategy of sentiment is beyond the absolute control of the Manager and the Company and over which, in the absence of any adverse the Board.
change to the regulatory environment and the favourable tax treatment afforded to UK investment trusts, they do Accounting, legal & regulatory not expect there to be any signi cant change to the current In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company must principal risks and to the adequacy of the mitigating controls comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. in place.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158 it might lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys portfolio would be subject to capital gains tax.
The Section 1158 quali cation criteria are, therefore, monitored by the Board at each meeting.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 12 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION In assessing the viability of the Company the directors have STEWARDSHIP ENGAGEMENT conducted a thorough assessment of each of the Companys The Manager recognises its wider stewardship principal risks and uncertainties as set out on page 12. responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this Particular scrutiny was given to the impact of a signi cant end, it supports the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out fall in global equity markets on the value of the Companys the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investment portfolio.
The directors have also considered the investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: Companys leverage and liquidity in the context of its xed rate borrowings, notably the 25 million debenture due to publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: expire in December 2017 and the 40 million debenture due to expire in March 2021, its income and expenditure disclose their policy on managing con icts of interest: projections and the fact the Companys investments comprise monitor their investee companies: mainly readily realisable quoted securities which can be sold establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: to meet funding requirements if necessary.
be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: All the key operations required by the Company are have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their outsourced to third party providers and alternative providers voting record: and could be secured at relatively short notice if necessary.
Having taken into account the Companys current The Manager endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK position and the potential impact of its principal risks and investments and supports the principles as best practice uncertainties, the directors have a reasonable expectation elsewhere.
The Manager believes that regular contact with that the Company will be able to continue in operation and the companies in which it invests is central to its investment meet its liabilities as they fall due for a period of five years process and it also recognises the importance of being an from the date of this Report.
active owner on behalf of its clients.
MODERN SLAVERY ACT The Manager believes that companies should act in a Due to the nature of the Companys business, being socially responsible manner.
Although its priority at all times a company that does not offer goods and services to is the best economic interests of its clients, it recognises customers, the Board considers that it is not within the that, increasingly, nonfinancial issues such as social and scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 because it has no environmental factors have the potential to impact the share turnover.
The Company is therefore not required to make price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists a slavery and human traf cking statement.
In any event, within the Managers Environmental, Social and Governance the Board considers the Companys supply chains, dealing ESG team work with the investment teams to appropriately predominantly with professional advisers and service integrate material ESG factors into the investment process.
providers in the financial services industry, to be low risk in relation to this matter.
The Managers Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on request from the Company GENDER DIVERSITY Secretary or can be downloaded from its website.
At the year end there were four male directors and two female directors on the Board.
The Company has no FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS employees and therefore there is nothing further to report The future development of the Company is dependent on in respect of gender representation within the Company.
the success of its investment strategy in the light of economic and equity market developments.
The outlook is discussed The Companys policy on diversity is detailed in the in the Chairmans Statement on page 2 and the Managers corporate governance report on page 22. Review on page 4.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS All the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
By order of the Board of Directors The Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations.
EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, ETHICAL John Reeve AND HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY Chairman The Company is managed by IFM, has no employees and 1 7 February 2017 all its directors are non-executive.
There are, therefore, no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board notes the Managers policy statement in respect of Social, Environmental and Governance issues, as outlined below.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 13 PORTFOLIO OF INVESTMENTS PLACE OF VALUATION OF INDUSTRY % OF PORTFOLIO PRIMARY LISTING HOLDING M HSBC HOLDINGS HSBC Holdings is one of the world s largest banks.
It 1 operates four global businesses: retail banking and wealth management, commercial banking, global banking and markets and private banking.
The company has been reducing exposure to peripheral areas and refocussing on UK 75.1 33 7.72 % under-managed core assets.
Approximately 2 3 of pre-tax pro ts are from Asia.
Fi Fin na an nc ciia alls s UK TREASURY 1.00% 201 7 Held in the portfolio in lieu of cash.
356 7.02% Fixed Interest GLAXOSMITHKLINE GlaxoSmithKline is a global health care company focussing 3 on pharmaceuticals, vaccines and consumer healthcare.
After a number of years of earnings disappointment pro tability seems to have stabilised.
The new chief executive may investigate the possibility of breaking up the company.
428 6.72% Healthcare ROYAL DUTCH SHELL Royal Dutch Shell is a global oil and gas company.
It is one 4 of the six oil and gas supermajors.
It is  and is active in oil and gas exploration and production, re ning, distribution and marketing, petrochemicals, power generation and trading.
The fall in the oil price has UK 59.
191 6.08 % focussed management attention on cost ef ciencies.
The B G acquisition increased debt and has necessitated some disposals.
Oil & Gas BP BP is a global oil and gas company and is one of the 5 six oil and gas supermajors.
Like Shell, the Company is UK 51.
272 5.27 % concentrated on operating ef ciencies.
Oil & Gas GRAFTON GROUP Grafton is a distributor of building products that operates 6 across the UK and Ireland and also has a small Benelux business.
The group operates from about 500 sites in the UK, and this is by far its most important market, accounting for approximately 75% of sales.
UK pro tability has been held UK 41.
333 4.25 % back by disappointing spend on improvement of the UK housing stock but this spending should bounce back.
Industrials BARCLAYS Barclays has signi cant consumer, corporate and investment 7 banking positions, particularly focussed on the UK and the US.
New management has been quick to reduce the non-core part of the business and re-build capital strength.
Signi cant efforts are being made to improve UK pro tability UK 38.
Financials LLOYDS BANKING GROUP Lloyds Banking Group operates across a wide range of UK 8 centric banking activities including retail and commercial banking and insurance.
The company still has an extensive branch network which may be reduced signi cantly when the government sells its shareholding.
772 3.57% Financials WM MORRISON SUPERMARKETS Morrisons is one of the big four food retail chains in the 9 UK.
In the last few years management has concentrated the business on its large superstores and improved pricing, products and service.
The companys large food manufacturing business has bene tted as the stores UK 28.
Consumer Services SIG S IG is a specialist distributor of building products in Europe.
10 Its three core product areas are insulation and energy management, exteriors and interiors.
New management has the opportunity to improve disappointing earnings history.
472 50.39% TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 ST STR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO ORT RT GO GOVER VERN NANC ANCE E REPOR REPORT T F FIINANC financial IAL REPOR REPORT T SHAREHOL SHAREHOLDER DER INF INFO ORMA RMAT TION ION PORTFOLIO OF INVESTMENTS CONTINUED PLACE OF VALUATION OF % OF INDUSTRY PRIMARY LISTING HOLDING M PORTFOLIO COMPANY 11 Royal Bank of Scotland Fin ancials UK 27.68 2 2.84% 12 Tesco Consumer Services UK 24.
892 2.56% 13 Marks & Spencer Consumer Services UK 24.
843 1.94% 19 Best Buy Consumer Services USA 18.
540 1.91% 20 British American Tobacco Consumer Goods UK 18.
015 1.85% 22 Yara International Basic Materials Norway 17.7 86 1.83% 23 Direct Line Insurance Fin ancials UK 17.2 40 1.77% 24 ETFS Physical Silver Financials UK 15.8 64 1.63% 25 Vaneck Vectors Gold Miners Fin ancials USA 15.7 78 1.62% 26 Go Ahead Con sumer Services UK 15.3 22 1.57% 27 Imperial Brands Consumer Goods UK 15.1 69 1.56% 28 Sainsbury J Consumer Services UK 14.
955 1.43% 30 Gold Bullion Securities ETF Fin ancials UK 13.
478 1.39% Top Thirty Investments 862.9 57 88.66% 31 Qinetiq Industrials UK 12.4 76 1.28% 32 Signet Jewellers Consumer Services U SA 11.0 54 1.14% 33 Green REIT Financials Ireland 10.1 09 1.04% 34 Ladbrokes Coral Con sumer Services UK 8.
078 0.83% 35 Land Securities REIT Fin ancials UK 7.
435 0.76% 36 Standard Chartered Fin ancials UK 7.
516 0.67% 38 International Personal Finance 5% 2021 F ixed Interest UK 5.
859 0.60% 39 Avon Products Consumer Goods USA 5.
834 0.60% Top Forty Investments 943.3 25 96.92% 41 Brown N Group Consumer Services UK 5.
539 0.57% 43 British Land REIT Financials UK 4.
356 0.45% 44 Games Workshop Consumer Goods UK 3.
628 0.17% 48 RSA Insurance 6.701% 2017 Variable Perpetual Fixed Interest UK 1.
015 0.10% 49 Aviva 2020 5.9021% FRN Perpetual Fixed Interest UK 0.971 0.10% 50 Lloyds Banking Group preference shares Financials UK 0.834 0.09% Top Fifty Investments 971.7 67 99.84% 51 St. Ives Industrials UK 0.816 0.08% 52 Hochschild Mining Basic Materials UK 0.762 0.08% 53 Johnston Press Consumer Services UK 0.008 0.00% Total Valuation of Portfolio 973.
353 100.0% TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 15 BOARD OF DIRECTORS JOHN REEVE RICHARD JEWSON ARTHUR COPPLE John Reeve, Chairman, was appointed Richard Jewson, senior independent Arthur Copple was appointed a a director in 1992.
He was formerly director, was appointed a director in director in 2011.
He has specialised executive chairman of the Willis Group, 2001.
He first worked in the timber in the investment company sector for group managing director of Sun Life and building material supply industry, over 30 years.
He was a partner at Assurance Society and a member of becoming managing director of Kitcat & Aitken, an executive director of the boards of the Association of British Jewson, the builders merchants, for Smith New Court PLC and a managing Insurers and the International Insurance twelve years from 1974, and then director of Merrill Lynch.
He is a director of a number of managing director and chairman of its other companies.
parent company Meyer International PLC from which he retired in 1993.
He is currently chairman of Raven Russia Limited and Tritax Big Box REIT PLC and a non-executive director of other private companies.
LESLEY SHERRATT Lesley Sherratt was appointed a JUNE fide MOLLER director in 2015.
She was formerly Investment Director for the Save & June fide Moller was appointed a Prosper and Fleming Flagship range director in 2005.
She is a former of funds, and CEO & CIO of Ark Asset managing director of Carlton Management Ltd. She has over twenty Communications PLC and was NICHOLAS LYONS years experience investing in the previously a non-executive director of J financial sector, including investment Nicholas Lyons was appointed Sainsbury PLC, Cookson Group PLC, BT trusts, and served as a director PLC and Derwent London PLC.
He worked in and Chair of US Small Companies investment banking for 21 years, Investment Trust.
She is currently retiring in 2003 from Lehman a director of a private foundation, Brothers as a Managing Director lectures in global business ethics at where he specialsied in advising Kings College London and is the financial institutions on mergers and author of Can Micro finance Work?
He is How to Improve its Ethical Balance and currently Senior Independent Director Effectiveness.
at Pension Insurance Corporation, Chairman of Price Forbes Holdings Limited and of Clipstone Logistics REIT plc.
He was previously Chairman DAVID WEBSTER of Miller Insurance Services LLP and a non-executive director of Catlin Group David Webster was appointed a Limited, Friends LIfe Group Limited and director in 2009.
His career started in of other private companies.
corporate finance at Samuel Montagu before becoming a founder and subsequently chairman of Safeway PLC from which he retired in 2004.
He is currently a non-executive director of Amadeus IT Holdings SA.
He has a wide range of other business interests including membership of the Appeals Committee of the Panel All the directors are independent and members of the audit and nomination on Takeovers and Mergers.
previously chairman of InterContinental Chairman of the audit committee and Hotels Group PLC and a non-executive Senior Independent Director.
director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 16 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 243596 TBR AR 01pp-31pp.
indd 16 23 02 2017 15:30 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REPORT OF DIRECTORS The directors present their report and accounts for the There is also a fee payable to Investec Asset Management year ended 31 December 2016.
Limited of 45,450 pa in respect of the provision of secretarial and administrative services, adjusted annually THE ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS in line with the Retail Price Index.
DIRECTIVE AIFMD IFMs performance under the contract and the contract Investec Fund Managers Limited IFM, an af liate of terms are reviewed at least annually.
This covers, inter Investec Asset Management Limited IAM, is the Companys alia, the performance of the Manager, its management alternative investment fund manager AIFM or Manager.
processes, investment style, resources and risk controls.
For the purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an alternative The Board endorses the investment approach adopted by investment fund AIF.
IFM has delegated responsibility for the Manager, recognising that while the contrarian style can the day to day management of the Companys portfolio to sometimes lead to periods of underperformance it usually IAM.
delivers superior investment returns over the longer term.
In addition, the portfolio has produced high and growing IFM is required to ensure that a depositary is appointed and dividend income to shareholders.
In the opinion of the accordingly IFM and the Company have appointed HSBC as directors the continued appointment of the Manager on the the depositary and custodian.
HSBC is responsible for the terms set out above is, therefore, in the best interests of custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its shareholders.
The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available GOING CONCERN to investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that The directors have reviewed the going concern basis of material changes to this information be disclosed in the accounting for the Company.
The Companys assets consist annual report of each AIF.
An Investor Information Document, substantially of equity shares in listed companies and in most which sets out information on the Companys investment circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
The strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate management, fees, con icts of interest and other shareholder because there are no material uncertainties related to events information is available on the Companys website at or conditions that may cast signi cant doubt about the ability www.
of the Company to continue as a going concern.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation There have been no material changes to this information that the Company has adequate resources to continue in requiring disclosure.
Any information requiring immediate operational existence for the foreseeable future, including disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the recourse to a 7.5 million overdraft facility with HSBC Bank.
London Stock Exchange through a primary information Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going provider.
As an authorised AIFM, IFM will make the requisite concern basis in preparing the accounts.
disclosures on remuneration levels and policies to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA at the appropriate time.
ORDINARY DIVIDENDS Interim dividends of 8.09p per ordinary share were paid on MANAGEMENT FEES 30 June 2016, 30 September 2016 and 30 December The Company has a management agreement with Investec 2016 2015: 7.9 3p in each case and the directors are Fund Managers Limited IFM for the provision of investment recommending a final dividend of 16.18p per ordinary share management services.
The agreement is subject to one years 2015: 15.87p, a total for the year of 40.45p 2 015: 39.66p.
notice of termination by either party.
Subject to shareholders approval, the final dividend will be paid on 31 March 2017 to shareholders on the register on IFM receives an investment management fee of 0.35% 1 0 March 2017. per annum, payable quarterly, based on the value of the investments including cash of the Company together with ISAs an additional fee of 125,000 pa, plus or minus 0.005% of The Company has conducted its investment policy so the value of the investments including cash of the Company as to remain a qualifying investment trust under the ISA above or below 750 million, calculated and payable regulations.
It is the intention of the Board to continue to quarterly.
Investments in funds managed by IFM are wholly satisfy these regulations.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 17 REPORT OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED SHARE CAPITAL There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was No new ordinary shares were issued during the year.
interested and which are or were signi cant in relation to the Companys business.
No director has a service contract with SECTION 992 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 the Company.
The following information is disclosed in accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company maintains insurance cover for its directors under a Directors & Of cers Liability policy, as permitted by Capital structure the Companies Act 2006.
Directors are also covered by the The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 44. indemnity provisions in the Companys Articles of Association.
Voting Rights in the Companys Shares SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS The voting rights at 31 December 2016 were: As at 31 December 2016 and 1 7 February 2017 the following were registered or had indicated an interest in 3% or more of Number of Voting rights Total the issued ordinary shares of the Company.
Share class shares issued per share voting rights Ordinary shares % of 25p each 66,872,765 1 66,872,765 Brewin Dolphin Ltd 8.7 As at 1 7 February 2017, the share capital of the Company and Alliance Trust Savings Ltd 7.6 total voting rights was 66,872,765.
There are no restrictions Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd 6.5 on the transfer of securities in the Company and there are no special rights attached to any of the shares.
Deadlines for Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 5.1 the exercise of voting rights and details of arrangements by Equiniti Financial Services 3.8 which someone other than the registered shareholder can exercise voting rights are provided in the Notes to the Notice AXA SA 3.1 of Meeting on page 51.
The Companys ordinary shares have a Premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR The directors are not aware of any relevant information of which To the extent that they exist, the revenue pro ts and capital the auditor is unaware and have taken all the steps that they of the Company including accumulated revenue and capital ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves reserves are available for distribution by way of dividends to aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a winding-up, after the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would be distributed to the shareholders pro rata to their AUDITOR holding of ordinary shares.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Change of control Meeting on 27 March 2017.
There are no agreements that may be altered or terminated on change of control of the Company.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company DIRECTORS to be held on 27 March 2017 is on page 49.
In addition to The directors of the Company who held of ce at the end the ordinary business the following matters are proposed of the year are detailed on page 1 6.
Nicholas Lyons was as special business.
appointed as an additional director on 23 January 2017.
No other person was a director during any part of the year.
Authority to allot shares and disapplication Details of directors bene cial shareholdings may be found in of pre-emption rights the Report on Directors Remuneration on page 20.
It is proposed that the directors be authorised to allot up to 1,671,819 of relevant securities in the Company equivalent All the directors will be retiring in compliance with the to 6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p each, representing 10.0% provisions of the AIC Code and, each being eligible, the of its ordinary shares in issue as at 17 February 2017.
In making these recommendations the Board has carefully reviewed the When shares are to be allotted for cash, the Companies composition of the Board as a whole and borne in mind the Act 2006 requires such new shares to be offered first to need for a proper balance of skills and experience.
The Board existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings does not believe that length of service of itself detracts from of ordinary shares.
However, in certain circumstances, it is the independence of a director, particularly in relation to an bene cial to allot shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to investment trust, and on that basis considers that all directors existing shareholders and the ordinary shareholders can by standing for re-election are independent.
It is con rmed that, special resolution waive their pre-emption rights.
Therefore, following formal evaluation, the performance of each director a special resolution will be proposed at the AGM which, if continues to be effective and each continues to demonstrate passed, will give the directors the power to allot for cash commitment to the role.
equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,671,819 equivalent to 6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p each or 10.0% of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 18 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 ST STR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO ORT RT GO GOVER VERN NANC ANCE E REPOR REPORT T F FIINANC financial IAL REPOR REPORT T SHAREHOL SHAREHOLDER DER INF INFO ORMA RMAT TION ION The directors intend to use this authority to issue new shares to prospective purchasers whenever they believe it may be advantageous to shareholders to do so.
Any such issues would only be made at prices greater than net asset value per share, as adjusted for the market value of the Companys debt, and would, therefore, increase the assets underlying each share.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
No issues of shares will be made which would alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Directors authority to purchase the Companys own shares The directors consider it desirable to give the Company the opportunity to buy back shares in circumstances where the shares may be bought for a price which is below the net asset value per share of the Company.
The purchase of ordinary shares is intended to reduce the discount at which ordinary shares trade in the market through the Company becoming a new source of demand for such shares.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority provide that the maximum price which can be paid by the Company is 5% above the average of the market value of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
Recommendation The Board considers the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its members as a whole.
Accordingly, the directors unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, as they intend to do so in respect of their own bene cial holdings, amounting to 126,159 ordinary shares.
By order of the Board of Directors John Reeve Chairman 1 7 February 2017 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 19 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Board presents the report on directors remuneration for FUTURE POLICY TABLE the year ended 31 December 2016 which has been prepared Purpose and link to strategy in accordance with Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006.
Fees payable to directors should be suf cient to attract and The report comprises a policy report, which is subject to a retain individuals of high calibre with suitable knowledge and triennial binding shareholder vote, or sooner if an alteration experience.
Those chairing the Board and key committees to the policy is proposed, and a remuneration policy should be paid higher fees than other directors in recognition of implementation report, which is subject to an annual advisory their more demanding roles.
Fees should re ect the time spent vote.
The remuneration policy was last approved at the AGM by directors on the Companys affairs and the responsibilities held on 24 March 2014 and is therefore required to be reborne by the directors.
submitted to shareholders for approval.
The remuneration policy is set out in the Future Policy Table on this page.
Maximum and minimum levels Remuneration consists of a xed fee each year, set in accordance The law requires the Companys auditor to audit certain parts with the stated policies, and any increase granted must be in line of the disclosures provided.
Where disclosures have been with the stated policies.
audited, they are indicated as such.
The auditors opinion is The Companys Articles of Association set a limit of 250,000 in included in their report on page 28. respect of the total remuneration that may be paid to directors The principles remain the same as for previous years.
There in any financial year.
have been no changes to remuneration policy during the The Board reviews the quantum of directors pay each year to period of this Report nor are there any proposals for change ensure this is in line with the level of remuneration for other in the foreseeable future.
investment trusts of a similar size.
When making recommendations for any changes in pay, the DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Board will consider wider factors such as the average rate of The Company does not have any executive directors and, in ation over the period since the previous review, and the level as permitted under the Listing Rules, has not, therefore, and any change in complexity of the directors responsibilities established a remuneration committee.
Remuneration of including additional time commitments as a result of increased non-executive directors is viewed as a decision of the Board, regulatory or corporate governance requirements.
subject to any shareholder approvals which may There is no compensation for loss of of ce.
REMUNERATION IMPLEMENTATION REPORT The level of directors fees is determined with reference to A single gure for the total remuneration of each a range of factors including the remuneration paid to the director is set out in the table below for the year ended directors of other investment trusts, comparable in terms 31 December 201 6.
These fees exclude employers national of both size and investment characteristics, and the rate insurance contributions and VAT where applicable: of in ation.
The Manager of the Company compiles such analysis as part of the management and secretarial services Total amount provided to the Company.
These data, together with 1 of fees consideration of any alteration in non-executive directors responsibilities, are used to review whether any change in 2016 2015 remuneration is necessary.
No other external advice is taken John Reeve 33,400 33,400 in considering such fees.
Arthur Copple 22,600 22,600 It is the Companys policy that no director shall be entitled to June fide Moller 22,600 22,600 any performance related remuneration, bene ts in kind, long term incentive schemes, share options, pensions or other Richard Jewson 25,500 25,500 retirement bene ts or compensation for loss of of ce.
None Martin Riley 5,650 of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
Lesley Sherratt 22,600 16,950 The Company has no employees and consequently no David Webster 22,600 22,600 consideration is required to be given to employment conditions elsewhere in setting directors pay.
Total 149,300 149,300 Consideration of Shareholders Views 1 Other columns have been omitted as no payments of any other type were made.
An ordinary resolution to approve the remuneration report The information in the above table has been audited.
The is put to shareholders at each AGM, and shareholders amounts paid by the Company to the directors were for have the opportunity to express their views and raise any services as non-executive directors.
queries in respect of remuneration policy at this meeting.
To date, no shareholders have commented in respect of remuneration policy.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 20 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Expenditure by the Company on remuneration Performance graph and distributions to shareholders The directors consider that the most appropriate measure of the Companys performance is its share price total return As the Company has no employees, the directors cannot compared with the total return on the FTSE All-Share Index.
show a table comparing remuneration paid to employees A graph illustrating this relative performance over an eight with distributions to shareholders.
year period is shown below.
Directors shareholdings Share price total return The directors shareholdings are detailed below: 300 31 December 2016 1 January 2016 280 John Reeve 60,959 57,613 260 Arthur Copple 32,643 27,924 240 June fide Moller 10, 231 9,305 220 Richard Jewson 10,275 9,760 200 Lesley Sherratt 7,500 180 David Webster 4,279 4,151 160 140 All the above interests are bene cial.
None of the directors had at any date any interest in either of the Companys 120 debenture stocks.
100 On 4 January 2017 Mr Reeve acquired an additional 80 386 ordinary shares as a result of a dividend reinvestment.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Temple Bar share price total return On 11 J anuary 2017 and 10 February 2017 Mr Reeve Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream FTSE All-Share Index total return acquired a further 78 and 78 ordinary shares respectively in the Company through his regular monthly saving in an ISA.
O n 4 January 2017 and 6 February 2017, Mr Jewson acquired a further 20 and 19 ordinary shares respectively in Annual statement the Company through his regular monthly savings in Temple The Board con rms that the above Remuneration Bar.
On 19 January 2017 and 9 February 2017 respectively, Implementation Report in respect of the year ended Mrs fide Moller acquired a further 39 and 38 ordinary shares in 31 December 2016 summarises: the Company through a regular monthly saving programme.
the major decisions on directors remuneration: No other changes in the interests shown above occurred between 31 December 201 7 and 1 7 February 2017. any signi cant changes relating to directors remuneration made during the year: and The portfolio manager also holds 58,255 ordinary shares in the context in which the changes occurred the Company.
and decisions have been taken.
Statement of Voting at General Meeting At the Companys last AGM held on 30 March 2016 By order of the Board of Directors shareholders approved the Directors Remuneration Report in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015.
99.4% of proxy votes were in favour of the resolution, 0.6% were against and 52,686 votes were withheld.
At the AGM held on 24 March 2014, a resolution for the John Reeve approval of the Remuneration Policy, as set out in the future Chairman policy table above, was approved by 99.1% of proxy votes, 1 7 February 2017 0.4% were against and 0.5% votes were withheld.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance is the process by which the board of directors of a company looks after shareholders interests and Operation of the Board by which it seeks to enhance shareholder value.
Shareholders The Board is ultimately responsible for framing and hold the directors responsible for the stewardship of a executing the Companys strategy and for closely companys affairs, delegating authority and responsibility monitoring risks.
There is a formal schedule of matters to to the directors to manage the company on their behalf and be speci cally approved by the Board and it has delegated holding them accountable for its performance.
investment management, within clearly fide ned parameters and dealing limits, to Investec Fund Managers Limited The Board considers the practice of good governance to IFM and the administration of the business to Investec be an integral part of the way it manages the Company Asset Management Limited IAM.
The Board reviews the and is committed to maintaining high standards of financial performance of the Company at Board meetings and sets reporting, transparency and business integrity.
the objectives for the Manager.
As Temple Bar is a UK-listed company the Boards principal The Corporate Company Secretary the Company Secretary governance reporting obligation is in relation to the UK is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board Corporate Governance Code the UK Code issued procedures are followed and for compliance with applicable by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September rules and regulations including the AIC Code.
However, it is recognised that investment companies or removal of the nominated representative of the Company have special circumstances which have an impact on their Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
An investment company typically has no employees and the roles of CEO, portfolio manager, The content and presentation of Board papers circulated administration, accounting and company secretarial tend to before each meeting contain suf cient information on the be outsourced to a third party.
The Association of Investment financial condition of the Company.
Key representatives of Companies has therefore drawn up its own set of guidelines IFM attend each Board meeting enabling directors to probe known as the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC on matters of concern or seek clari cation on certain issues.
Code issued in February 2013 and updated in 2015, which Biographies of those directors in of ce at the date of signing recognises the nature of investment companies by focusing of the financial statements are set out on page 16.
Nicholas on matters such as board independence and the review Lyons was appointed as a director on 23 January 2017.
There of management and other third party contracts.
The FRC were seven Board meetings, two audit committee meetings has endorsed the AIC Code and con rmed that companies and two nomination committee meetings held during the which report against the AIC Code will be meeting their year and the attendance by the directors was as follows: obligations in relation to the UK Corporate Governance Code and paragraph LR9.8.
6 of the FCAs Listing Rules.
The Board believes that reporting against the principles Number of meetings attended and recommendations of the AIC Code will provide better Audit Nomination information to shareholders.
Board Committee Committee The Company has complied with the recommendations John Reeve 7 2 2 of the AIC Code which incorporates the UK Corporate Arthur Copple 7 2 2 Governance Code, except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: June fide Moller 5 2 1 the role of the chief executive Richard Jewson 6 1 2 executive directors remuneration Lesley Sherratt 6 2 2 the need for an internal audit function David Webster 7 2 2 The Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of Temple Bar, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 22 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Audit committee and experience relevant to the direction of the Company.
Mr Jewson is the Senior Independent Director.
The audit committee is a formally constituted committee of the Board with fide ned terms of reference.
Its role Re-election of directors and responsibilities are set out in the Report of the Audit Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the Committee on page 25.
The Board is satis ed that members first AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, are of the audit committee have relevant and recent financial subject to retirement on an annual basis.
In addition, the experience to ful l their role effectively.
The auditor, who appointment of each director is reviewed by other members the Board has identi ed as being independent, is invited of the Board every year.
Directors are not, therefore, subject to attend the audit committee meeting at which the annual to automatic re-appointment.
Non-executive directors are accounts are considered and any other meetings that the not appointed for speci ed terms.
Because of the nature of committee deems necessary.
The committee is chaired by an investment trust the Board believes that the contribution Mr Jewson, the Senior Independent Director.
and independence of a director is not diminished by long Nomination committee service.
A nomination committee comprising all the directors has The Board has carefully considered the position of each been established to oversee a formal review procedure of the directors and believes it would be appropriate for governing the appointment of new directors and to them to be proposed for re-election.
Each of the directors evaluate the overall composition of the Board from time to continues to be effective and to display an undiminished time, taking into account the existing balance of skills and enthusiasm and commitment to the role.
This committee is chaired by Mr Reeve.
Diversity After the year end the Board appointed Nick Lyons as The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to an additional director.
The process leading up to this take this into consideration during the recruitment and appointment involved the identi cation and interview of appointment process.
Typically, the Board seeks to ensure potential candidates put forward by an external agency that there is a suitable balance between directors with alongside the evaluation of various other candidates either industrial commercial and traditional City backgrounds.
known personally to or recommended by individual board However, the Board is committed to appointing the most members.
Following an extensive review process it was appropriate candidate, regardless of gender or other forms decided to proceed with the appointment of Nick Lyons, of diversity, and therefore no targets have been set against as the candidate best quali ed to complement the existing which to report.
balance of skills and experience on the board.
He will stand for election at the AGM alongside all other board members Induction and training proposed for re-election in accordance with our policy.
New directors appointed to the Board are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular The committee is also responsible for assessing on an annual circumstances of the appointee.
Regular brie ngs are basis the individual performance of directors and for making provided during the year on industry and regulatory matters recommendations as to whether they should remain in of ce.
and the directors receive other relevant training as required.
Management engagement committee Individual directors may seek independent advice at the expense of the Company within certain limits.
As all the directors are fully independent of the management company, the Board as a whole ful ls the function of a Ongoing evaluation management engagement committee.
On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its Independence of the directors performance, together with that of the audit and nomination committees and the effectiveness and contribution of the Each of the directors is independent of any association with individual directors, including the Chairman, within the the Manager and has no other relationships or circumstances context of service on those bodies.
The review encompasses which might be perceived to interfere with the exercise an assessment of how cohesively these bodies work as a of independent judgement.
Three of the seven directors whole as well as the performance of the individuals within Mr Reeve, Mr Jewson and Mrs fide Moller have served on them.
In 2016 the Board also employed the services of Board the Board for more than nine years from the date of their Evaluation, an external evaluation agency, to carry out an first election, but given the nature of the Company as an external independent evaluation of its performance.
On the investment trust and the strongly independent mind set of basis of these reviews the Board has concluded that it has an the individuals involved, the Board is rmly of the view that appropriate balance of skills and is operating effectively.
all of the directors can be considered to be independent.
In arriving at this conclusion the Board makes a clear distinction between the activities of an investment trust and a conventional trading company.
An investment trust has no employees or executive directors, the most signi cant relationship being with the Manager.
In overseeing this relationship it is the view of the Board that long service aids the understanding a nd judgement of the directors.
The directors have a range of business and financial skills TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Shareholder communications The Board has also established a series of investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of Board and the Manager.
The principal medium by which the investments.
The safeguarding of assets is entrusted Company communicates with shareholders is through half to an independent reputable custodian with whom the yearly reports and annual reports.
The information contained holdings are regularly reconciled.
therein is supplemented by daily NAV announcements and by a monthly fact sheet available on the Companys website.
The effectiveness of the overall system of internal control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a system can The Board largely delegates responsibility for communication provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against with shareholders to the management company and, through material misstatement or loss.
The Board believes that there feedback, both from the Manager and the Companys is a robust framework of internal controls in place to meet stockbroker, expects to be able to develop an understanding the requirements of the AIC Code.
The Board receives a quarterly report from the Manager summarising any shareholder correspondence The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal together with any comments about Temple Bar on social control matters.
Based on the foregoing the Company has a media.
Members of the Board are willing to meet with continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing shareholders for the purpose of discussing matters in relation the risks it faces.
This process has been in place for the to the operation and prospects of the Company.
reporting period and to the date of this report.
The Board encourages investors to attend the AGM and welcomes questions and discussion on issues of concern or areas of uncertainty.
By order of the Board of Directors Following the formal AGM proceedings the p ortfolio manager makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the key investment issues that face the Company.
Accountability, internal controls and audit John Reeve The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all Chairman documents released by the Company, including the Annual 1 7 February 2017 Report, present a fair and accurate assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Board con rms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company in accordance with the FRCs document Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Controls and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The directors are responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to facilitate the control process the Board has requested the Manager to con rm annually that it has conducted the Companys affairs in compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations which apply to the Company and to report on the systems and procedures within IFM which are applicable to the management of Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting receives suf cient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
In addition, financial information is circulated to the directors on a monthly basis.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 24 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE I am pleased to present the Committees report to SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED REGARDING THE shareholders on the effectiveness of the external audit ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS process and how this has been assessed for the year The Committee also considered signi cant issues and areas ended 31 December 2016. of key audit risk in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, as outlined below.
The Committee reviewed the ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES external audit plan at an early stage and concluded that the The Company has established a separately chaired appropriate areas of audit risk relevant to the Company had Audit Committee the Committee whose duties include been identi ed and that suitable audit procedures had been considering and recommending to the Board for approval the put in place to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial contents of the half yearly and annual financial statements, statements as a whole would be free of material misstatements.
and providing an opinion as to whether the Annual Report, The table below sets out the key areas of risk identi ed and also taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, understandable and explains how these were addressed by the Committee.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Signi cant Issue How the issue was addressed The Committee also reviews the external auditors report Veri cation of the The Committee reviews reports from its thereon and is responsible for reviewing and forming an existence of the service providers on key controls over the opinion on the effectiveness of the external audit process assets in the portfolio assets of the Company.
Any signi cant and audit quality.
Other duties include reviewing the issues are reported by the Manager to the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and Committee.
ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and The valuation of the The Committee reviews detailed portfolio standards, as set out in more detail below.
The Terms of investment portfolio valuations on a regular basis throughout Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys the year and receives con rmation from website at www.
co. uk the Manager that the pricing basis is appropriate.
The audit includes a check The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The two of pricing back to source data to con rm planned meetings are held prior to the Board meetings that the correct valuation basis has to approve the half yearly and annual results.
been applied in accordance with the accounting policies adopted, as disclosed COMPOSITION in note 1 to the Financial Statements.
All the directors are members of the Committee, which Going concern Having considered the Companys is chaired by Mr Jewson.
The Board considers that the investment objective, risk management members of the Committee have suf cient recent and policies and cash ow projections relevant financial experience for the Committee to discharge the Committee is satis ed that the its function effectively.
The Chairman of the Company is a Company has adequate resources and member of the Committee to enable him to be kept fully an appropriate financial structure to informed of any issues which may arise.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
RESPONSIBILITIES AND REVIEW OF Compliance with Ongoing compliance with the THE EXTERNAL AUDIT Sections 1158 eligibility criteria is monitored on During the year the principal activities of the and 1159 of the a regular basis by the board.
Committee included: Corporation Tax Act 2010 considering and recommending to the Board for approval the contents of the half yearly and annual The veri cation of The Committee reviews income financial statements and reviewing the external investment income forecasts and receives explanations auditors report thereon: from the Manager for any variations or signi cant movements from previous reviewing the scope, execution, results, cost forecasts and prior year numbers.
effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditor: The provision of portfolio valuation, accounting and reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval administration services is delegated to the Companys the audit and non-audit fees payable to the external Manager, who sub-delegates fund accounting to a third party auditor and the terms of their engagement: service provider, and the provision of custody services is reviewing and approving the external auditors plan contracted to HSBC.
for the financial year, with a focus on the identi cation of areas of audit risk, and consideration of the appropriateness of the level of audit materiality adopted: reviewing the quality of the audit engagement partner and the audit team, and making a recommendation to the Board with respect to the re-appointment of the auditor: reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies: and ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and standards.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 25 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED AUDITOR AND AUDIT TENURE To form a conclusion with regard to the independence of the external auditor, the Committee considers whether the skills The Companys current auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has and experience of the auditor make them a suitable supplier acted in this role since 2003 pursuant to a competitive tender of any non-audit service and whether there is any threat to process which took place at that time.
There has not been a their objectivity and independence in the conduct of the subsequent tender process.
The appointment of the auditor audit resulting from the provision of such services.
On an is reviewed each year and the audit partner changes at least annual basis, Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of every five years in accordance with professional and regulatory their relationship with the Company and report to the Board, standards in order to protect independence and objectivity providing details of any other relationships with the Manager.
and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
The last five As part of this review, the Committee also receives information yearly audit rotation took place in 2012.
The Committee about policies and processes for maintaining independence is aware that EU legislation requires listed companies to and monitoring compliance with relevant requirements from rotate their auditor every 10 years.
Under the transitional the Companys auditor, including information on the rotation arrangements for rms where the tenure was between 11 of audit partners and staff, and details of any relationships and 20 years on the effective date under the new EU rules, between the audit rm and its staff and the Company, as there will be a grace period of nine years after the enactment well as an overall con rmation from the auditor of their of the EU legislation.
Accordingly, based upon the new independence and objectivity.
As a result of their review, legislation, Ernst & Young will not be able to act as auditor to the Committee has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP is the Company after June 2023 so the last financial year that independent of the Company and the Manager.
they could serve as auditor would end on 31 December 2022.
The Committee has not decided when to put the audit out to The Company con rms that it has complied with the tender but will keep this matter under review.
There are no September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order.
contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of auditor.
Other non-audit fees of 2, 300 excluding VAT paid CONCLUSIONS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL to Ernst & Young LLP relate to their services in the electronic REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ling of tax returns : due to this amount being negligible, The production and audit of the Companys Annual Report the Board does not consider this a threat to the auditor's and Financial Statements is a comprehensive process independence.
requiring input from a number of different contributors.
One of the key governance requirements of a Companys financial ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFICIENCY OF THE EXTERNAL statements is for the Report and Financial Statements to AUDIT PROCESS be fair, balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a To assess the effectiveness of the external audit, members of conclusion on this matter, the Board has requested that the the Committee work closely with the Manager to obtain a good Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual understanding of the progress and ef ciency of the audit.
Report and Financial Statements ful ls these requirements.
Feedback in relation to the audit process, and also of the As a result of the work performed, the Committee has effectiveness of the Manager in performing its role, is also concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended sought from relevant involved parties, notably the audit 31 December 2016, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced partner and team.
The external auditor is invited to attend and understandable and provides the information necessary the Committee meeting at which the annual accounts are for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, considered, where they have the opportunity to meet with business model and strategy.
The Committee has reported the Committee without representatives of the Manager on these findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions being present.
in this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 27.
The effectiveness of the Board and the Manager in the external audit process is assessed principally in relation to the timely identi cation and resolution of any process errors or control breaches that might impact the Companys NAVs and accounting records.
It is also assessed by reference to Richard Jewson how successfully any issues in respect of areas of accounting judgement are identi ed and resolved, the quality and Chairman timeliness of papers analysing these judgements, the Board Audit Committee and the Managers approach to the value of independent 1 7 February 2017 audit, the booking of any audit adjustments arising and the timely provision of draft public documents, for review by the auditor and the Committee.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 26 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors con rm that to the best of their knowledge: Report and the financial statements in accordance with the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t Company law requires the directors to prepare financial or loss of the Company: and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development directors have chosen to prepare the financial statements in and performance of the business and the position of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Company, together with a description of the principal as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the The UK Corporate Governance Code also requires Directors state of affairs of the Company and of the pro t or loss of to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a conclusion statements, the directors are required to: on this matter, the Board has requested that the Audit Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual select suitable accounting policies in accordance Report and Accounts ful ls these requirements.
The process with IAS8: Accounting Policies, Changes in by which the Committee has reached these conclusions is set Accounting Estimates and Errors, and then apply out in the Audit Committees report on pages 25 and 26.
As these consistently: a result, the Board has concluded that the Annual Report for present information, including accounting policies, the year ended 31 December 2016, taken as a whole, is fair, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, balanced and understandable and provides the information comparable and understandable information: necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys provide additional disclosures when compliance with the performance, business model and strategy.
speci c requirements in IFRS is insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and On behalf of the Board state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate John Reeve accounting records which are suf cient to show and explain Chairman the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable 1 7 February 2017 accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
T hey are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 27 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its pro t for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Temple Bar Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Financial Position, Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 2 2.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Incomplete or inaccurate revenue recognition.
Incorrect valuation and existence of the investment portfolio.
Materiality 8.8m which represents 1% of total net assets.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identi ed the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Incomplete or Inaccurate revenue We performed the following The results of our procedures identi ed no procedures: issues with the accuracy or completeness of recognition income receipts.
Obtained an understanding of as described on page 25 in the Report of the processes and controls for the We concurred with the accounting treatment Audit Committee and as per the accounting recognition of investment income at adopted for material special dividends.
policy set out on page 38 Investec Fund Managers Ltd Investec Based on the work performed, we had no As can be seen in note 4 in the notes to or the Manager and State Street matters to report.
the financial statements, the Company has Global Service s State Street or reported investment income of 34 million the Administrator by performing 2015: 31 million.
This includes special walkthrough procedures, reviewing dividends of 2.7m 2015: 4.6m.
the Administrators and the Managers internal control reports and discussing For special dividends the Company with the Manager the governance determines whether amounts should be structure and protocols for oversight of credited to the revenue or capital columns investment income recognition.
of the income statement based on the underlying substance of the transaction.
Agreed a sample of dividends received from the underlying financial records We focus on the recognition of revenue and to an independent pricing source and its presentation in the financial statements to bank statements as supporting because revenue return is a key area of focus documentation.
Tested all accrued dividends at the period end for occurrence and measurement.
To test the risks of management override within investment income we tested all material special dividends received during the period and assessed the appropriateness of the accounting treatment adopted.
Performed a review of revenue related journal entries focusing in particular on manual journals, journals posted around the year end date and raised in the processing and recording of special dividends.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 28 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Incorrect valuation and existence of the We performed the following The results of our procedures identi ed no procedures: material error in the valuation or existence of investment portfolio the investment portfolio assets.
Obtained an understanding of the as described on page 25 in the Report of the Administrator and the Managers Based on the work performed, we had no Audit Committee and as per the accounting processes and controls for the matters to report.
policy set out on page 39 valuation of investments by performing The investment portfolio at the year-end walkthrough procedures, reviewing comprised listed securities of 973m the Administrators and the Managers 2015: 856m.
internal control reports and discussing with the Manager the governance The valuation of the assets held in the structure and protocols for oversight of investment portfolio is the key driver of the investment valuations.
Companys net asset value and investment return.
Incorrect valuation and existence We agreed all investment holding of assets by the Company could have a prices to a relevant independent signi cant impact on portfolio valuation source.
and, therefore, the return generated for We have agreed the exchange rates shareholders.
used to translate the year end valuation of non-sterling investments to external sources.
We recalculated the value of investments in foreign currencies to verify the accuracy of the corresponding sterling balances.
We agreed all investment holdings in the portfolio to third party con rmations received from the Custodian and the Depositary.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Company.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk pro le, the organisation and effectiveness of controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Service Organisation Control SOC reporting when assessing the level of work to be performed.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identi ed misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to in uence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 8.8m million 2015: 7.6 million, which is 1% 2015: 1% of total net assets.
We believe that total net assets is the most important financial metric on which shareholders judge the performance of the Company.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 29 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2015: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 6.6m 2015: 5.7m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company we also applied a separate testing threshold of 1.5m 2015: 1.3m for the revenue column of the income statement, being 5% of the revenue pro t before taxation.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identi ed misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 440k 2015: 380k, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 27, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements : the Strategic Report and the Report of Directors have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 30 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and nonfinancial We have no Ireland reporting information in the annual report is: exceptions to report.
m aterially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identi ed any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy, and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment We have no 2006 reporting obtained in the course of the audit, we have identi ed no material misstatements in the exceptions to report.
Strategic Report o r Report of Directors.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Report of Directors Remuneration to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements exceptions to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 17, and longerterm viability, set out on page 12 : and the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or We have nothing Ireland reporting to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors con rmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identi cation of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
Ashley Coups Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London February 2017 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 6 31
