Effectiveness Board Activity The agenda for each Board meeting is split into four key areas: 1.
This provides a clear structure to ensure that Matters Reserved for the Board are grouped appropriately and ensures consistency across the pack of documents sent to the Board in advance of the meeting and the meetings themselves.
Across these four areas, the main focus of the Boards agenda is currently strategy, which reflects the fact that the Group is currently in a turnaround period.
In the future, the agenda is expected to shift to having a balance of short-term trading updates and more long-term issues such as people development, branding, marketing and business planning.
Set out below is a sample of some the issues which the Board considered during the year: The Board received reports from each of the The CEO provided updates to the Board during the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nominations and year on business performance, investor engagement, Remuneration Committees following each Committee business priorities and operations as well as regulatory meeting.
The Company Secretary also provided regular and corporate responsibility and colleague matters and reports on corporate and regulatory updates and also key customer metrics.
Reports were also provided to routine corporate approvals.
As mentioned on page 30 the Board by the CFO setting out progress against the the Group Delegated Authorities Schedule was reviewed Big 6 KPI measures and the three turnaround priorities.
this year and the Board spent time discussing the changes that were required.
Updates on litigation and investigations were also provided, including on the Grocery Code Adjudicators review.
Corporate Reporting Business Financial Review Results Updates were provided to the Board on tax strategy, the Groups treasury position and strategy The Board reviewed the Annual Report and Financial for the business in general.
In addition, updates were Statements for 2014 15 and the Interim Results Statement, including the going concern review.
provided from the Investor Relations team on the Discussions were also held on the approach to viability views of major shareholders and share price changes.
An update was given to the board on the results of the under the new Code requirements.
In addition, the 2015 UK General Election and the potential impact Board received reports from the external auditor as on the Group as well as potential policy changes by well as the results of an annual property valuation.
Discussions were also held on the Groups position the UK government and EU reforms.
Further updates with regards to dividends and the conditions that were also provided on consumer and market trends with discussions on competition issues and strategies would need to be achieved in order to return to a for navigating the challenges faced by the business.
position of making shareholder distributions.
A forward agenda for the Board is maintained, setting out items for consideration periodically in the future.
This provides context for the current meeting agenda, setting out when items will be tabled for consideration through the annual cycle of events.
38 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Directors induction and training Led by the Chairman, a comprehensive induction programme is tailored for each new Director prior to their appointment to the Board.
The programme is designed for each individual, taking account of their existing knowledge of the business, specific areas ofexpertise and proposed Committee appointments.
For Alison Platt, Simon Patterson and Lindsey Pownall, meetings have been arranged with the Chairman, CEO and Senior Independent Director, as well as senior members ofmanagement to ensure they gain a thorough overview and understanding of the key business channels.
Alison, Simon and Lindsey will also visit various stores, distribution centres and fulfilment centres during their first few months as Directors.
Each Director isprovided with a wealth of information via our online Board portal, including: history, values and Every Little Helps culture of Tesco: governance framework, including Matters Reserved for the Board, Group Delegated Authorities Schedule, Forward Agendas, minutes from previous Board and Committee meetings, outcomes from previous Board Effectiveness reviews, calendar with dates of Board meetings, strategy days and investor events: operational and management structure including succession plans across the Group: Group strategy including progress on the three turnaround priorities and the Big 6: position on corporate actions including the process and decisions made with respect to the sale of the Homeplus business in Korea: key relationships with stakeholders including employees, customers, suppliers andthe Supplier Code of Conduct: key relationships with investors including voting history and analyst opinions: consumer and industry trends: Group risk profile including key areas of focus for internal audit: remuneration policy and an overview of the consultation process that led to thedecision to close the UK defined benefit pension scheme in 2015 and launch anewdefined contribution pension scheme: and corporate responsibility activities including the Community Food Connection andBags of Help initiatives.
This year, Byron Grote was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
As part of Byrons induction to this role, meetings were arranged with key senior finance executives, the Chief Audit & Risk Officer as well as Tescos lead audit partner.
Members of the Board have access to all Board and Committee papers.
The Chairman regularly discusses training requirements with the Board and arranges meetings or information to be provided as appropriate.
As part of the ongoing development of Directors, key site visits are arranged during the year.
All Directors are supplied with quality information in an appropriate format.
They each have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are able to arrange for independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge it is necessary inorder to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
In addition, a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policy is maintained for all of our Directors and each Director has the benefit of a Deed of Indemnity.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 39 Corporate governance report continued John Allan Nominations Committee report Nominations Committee Dear Shareholder, Chairman This was a very busy year for the Nominations Committee with three key issues under consideration: appointment of new Non-executive Directors: longer term succession planning: and our Board evaluation cycle.
Nominations Committee attendance At the first Committee meeting in the 2015 16 financial year, the Committee agreed Meetings toappoint Byron Grote as a new member subject to formal Board and Remuneration held during directors Meetings Committee approval, which was received in December 2015.
Director tenure attended John Allan 5 5 Due to the level of discussion and consideration required for the appointment of new Deanna Oppenheimer 5 5 Board members, additional meetings were scheduled in order to allow sufficient time Richard Cousins 5 5 fora robust process of review and scrutiny of the potential candidates.
Given the level ofchange that has taken place over the past 18 months, it was determined that the Byron Grote 1 1 addition of three new Non-executive Directors would be appropriate and the Committee invested substantial time both during and outside formal Committee meetings in order Nominations Committee responsibilities to thoroughly explore the available options.
The responsibilities of the Nominations Committeeinclude: With the appointment this year of three new Non-executive Directors, we are confident review of the Boards structure, size that we have a strong Board to take the Group forward beyond the current turnaround andcomposition: period.
Having said that, the Committee will continue to refresh and review succession identification, nomination and review of plans.
The Committee will also keep the timing of further Board effectiveness evaluations candidates for appointment to the Board: under consideration and assess whether going forward, internal or external reviews ensuring an effectiveness review is conducted annually of the Board, Committees and would be most appropriate.
Directors: and review of Board succession over the longer John Allan term in order to maintain an appropriate Chair of Nominations Committee balance of skills and experience and to ensure progressive refresh of the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are available at www.
The Senior Independent Nominations Committee activities Director chairs all Committee meetings where Following the departure of two Non-executive Directors after the 2015 AGM, the matters relating to the Chairman are discussed.
Committee were concerned to assess the current composition of the Board and identify whether additional skills and competencies required representation on the Board.
After careful thought, it was agreed that the Board would benefit from appointing three new Non-executive Directors.
Before selecting Lygon Group as an external search agency, consideration was given to the use of several different UK agencies with global reach toreflect the international nature of Tescos business.
Lygon Group are independent ofTesco and haveno connection to the Group.... the Committee is very Although much of the Committees focus this year was on the appointment of Alison Platt, Simon Patterson and Lindsey Pownall, consideration was also given to the composition pleased to have secured andrequirements for the Board further into the future.
The Committee was mindful of the Davies Reports 2011 recommendation to have 25% female Board membership new Non-executive by 2015, increased in October 2015 to 33% by 2020.
However, the priority was to Directors with the calibre recruit Directors who would offer the right skills and complement the rest of the Board.
Significant time was therefore given to debating the areas of expertise required from and relevant skills and the new appointments with a focus on the needs of the business in the current digital experience of Alison, age.
Consideration was also given to which Committees would benefit from additional members and the relevant skills required for these roles.
Following initial meetings with either John Allan or another Committee member, shortlisted candidates were met by the rest of the Committee outside formal scheduled meetings.
Each member of the Committee was able to meet the potential Directors face to face with the opportunity to probe them on specific points.
Following these introductory meetings, discussion was held at each subsequent Committee meeting on each individual to explore their suitability as a candidate.
In addition to the skills and experience of the individual, consideration was given to the significant external appointments currently held by each candidate and the associated time commitments of these roles.
The Committee also discussed whether they were a good cultural fit for Tesco as well as the anticipated views of external stakeholders.
40 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Having completed this process, the Committee is very pleased to have secured new Non-executive Directors with the calibre and relevant skills and experience of Alison, Simon and Lindsey.
Between them, they bring a wealth of customer service, IT and supplier relationship experience with which they will contribute positively to the work ofthe Board.
Full biographies of each Director can befound on page 33.
The Committee also discussed the Board effectiveness process during the year, including the selection of an external evaluator further information on the Board evaluation can befound below.
In addition, an evaluation of the Chairmans performance during the year led by Richard Cousins as Senior Independent Director was discussed without the Chairman being present.
Performance reviews of all Directors including the CEO and CFO were also undertaken.
Succession plans for each of these roles were also reviewed.
Further information about our focus on diversity can be found under Diversity at Tesco on page 36.
Board evaluation This year, the Board agreed to arrange for an external effectiveness evaluation followingthe changes that had taken place on the Board.
The Nominations Committee recommended the appointment of Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation to carryout this work.
Ffion Hague and Independent Board Evaluation each have no other connections with Tesco and were therefore considered independent in accordance with the Code.
Board evaluation process and recommendations The Chairman provided Ffion Hagues team with a comprehensive brief in September 2015.
The evaluation team attended Board and Committee meetings in December 2015 and February 2016.
In December 2015 and January 2016, detailed interviews were conducted with every Board member.
All participants were interviewed for 1.5hours byFfion Hague according to a set agenda, tailored for the Tesco Board.
Inaddition, theteam interviewed other regular attendees and contributors.
An initial report was compiled based on the meeting observations and interviews.
Draftconclusions were discussed with the Chairman and subsequently discussed with the whole Board at its meeting in February 2016 with Ffion Hague present.
The conclusions of that discussion are recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
Following the Board meeting, Ffion Hague gave feedback to the Committee Chairs ontheperformance of each Committee and to the Senior Independent Director on theperformance of the Chairman.
In addition, the Chairman received a report with feedbackon individual Directors.
The evaluation process concluded that although the current Board is unusually newcompared to peer groups, there is already a very positive culture.
Accelerating thedevelopment of a strong culture will place the Board in the best position to address thechallenges ahead of which Board members are acutely aware.
Increasing opportunities for the Board to meet informally whether through site visits in the UK oroverseas will contribute to this as well as consolidating links between the Board andthe business.
Among the recommendations set out in the report were to: consider the development of a statement of values and purpose for the Board: consider ways to increase the time Board members spend in stores and on sites otherthan the head office or London office location: consider ways of strengthening links between the PLC and subsidiary boards e. g. theBoard of Tesco Bank in order to underpin the information flow to the Board: and schedule private sessions for the Non-executive Directors at the start of Board meetings to enhance decision-making and help induct new Board members.
The Board is considering all of the recommendations of the Board evaluation report.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 41
