Notes to the Parent Company financial statements Note 1 Authorisation of financial statements and Impairment of investments The Company has determined its investment in each entity as a separate statement of compliance with FRS 101 cash-generating unit for impairment testing.
Where there are indicators of impairment, the Company performs an impairment test.
Recoverable The Parent Company financial statements for the year ended 27 February 2016 amounts for cash-generating units are based on the higher of value in use were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 April 2016 and the balance sheet and fair value less costs of disposal.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow was signed on the Boards behalf by Alan Stewart and Dave Lewis.
projections generally over five years using data from the Companys latest internal forecasts, and extrapolated beyond five years using estimated These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting long-term growth rates.
These calculations require the use of estimates as Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The Company meets the set out in Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements of Tesco PLC.
Fair definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100, Application of Financial Reporting value is determined by independent, professional valuer where appropriate.
Requirements as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Foreign currencies The Companys financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, its functional Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at currency, generally rounded to the nearest million.
the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out in Note 2. are retranslated to the functional currency at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for certain financial instruments and share-based payments that have been measured at fair value.
Share-based payments The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant date using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo model.
The resulting cost is Note 2 Accounting policies charged to the Income Statement over the vesting period.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
Where Basis of preparation of financial statements the Company awards shares or options to employees of subsidiary entities, The Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance this is treated as a capital contribution.
with Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
FRS 101 sets out a reduced Financial instruments disclosure framework for a qualifying entity as defined in the standard which Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Companys addresses the financial reporting requirements and disclosure exemptions in the Balance Sheet when the Company becomes party to the contractual individual financial statements of qualifying entities that otherwise apply the provisions of the instrument.
recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of EU-adopted IFRS.
Receivables These are the first financial statements of the Company prepared in Receivables are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently at accordance with FRS 101.
The Companys date of transition to FRS 101 amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision is 22 February 2014.
The Company has notified its shareholders in writing for impairment.
about, and they do not object to, the use of the disclosure exemptions used by the Company in these financial statements.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the FRS 101 sets out amendments to EU-adopted IFRS that are necessary to substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument achieve compliance with the Act and related Regulations.
The prior year is any contract that gives a residual interest in the assets of the Company after financial statements were re-stated for material adjustments on adoption deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are of FRS 101 in the current year.
For more information see Note 16. recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 27 February 2016 prior Interest-bearing borrowings financial year 53 weeks to 28 February 2015.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any differences disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to business between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Company Income combinations, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and related Payables party transactions.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the Payables are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently at amortised consolidated financial statements of Tesco PLC.
cost using the effective interest rate method.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared on a going Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting concern basis as set out in Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to of Tesco PLC.
foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operating, financing and investing activities.
The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under instruments for trading purpose: however if derivatives do not qualify for Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented an Income hedge accounting they are accounted for as such.
Statement or a Statement of Comprehensive Income for the Company alone.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies is set out below.
on re-measurement are immediately recognised in the Company Income Statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of Short-term investments any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship Short-term investments are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently and the items being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the at amortised cost.
All income from these investments is included in the Income Company is required to document from inception, the relationship between Statement as interest receivable and similar income.
the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures The Company is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at cost less, where of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, appropriate, provisions for impairment.
which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is performed at each reporting date to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one year from the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
144 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Note 2 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Fair value hedging Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance hedge the Companys exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Company Income to be recovered.
Statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets against current Cash flow hedging taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Companys exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
The effective element of any gain or loss from re-measuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income.
The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognised in the Company Income Statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the Company Income Statement.
The classification of the effective portion when recognised in the Company Income Statement is the same as the classification of the hedged transaction.
Any element of the re-measurement criteria of the derivative instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge is recognised immediately in the Company Income Statement within finance income or costs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or if a voluntary fide-designation takes place or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in the Company Statement of Changes in Equity until the forecasted transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the Company Income Statement.
If a forecasted hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in the Company Statement of Changes in Equity is reclassified to the Company Income Statement.
Pensions The Company participates in defined benefit pension schemes and cannot identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schemes.
Accordingly, as permitted by IAS 19 Employee Benefits, the Company has accounted for the schemes as defined contribution schemes, and the charge for the period is based upon the cash contributions payable.
The Company also participates in a defined contribution scheme open to all UK employees.
Payments to this scheme are recognised as an expense as they fall due.
Taxation The tax expense included in the Company Income Statement consists of current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax expense is recognised in the Company Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the Company Statement of Comprehensive Income or directly in the Company Statement of Changes in Equity, in which case it is recognised in the Company Statement of Comprehensive Income or directly in the Company Statement of Changes in Equity, respectively.
Deferred tax is provided using the Balance Sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Company Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity or Other Comprehensive Income, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity, or Other Comprehensive Income, respectively.
145 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
