Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 4.
Relations with our social and environmental stakeholders John Allan Corporate Responsibility Committee report Corporate Responsibility Dear Shareholder, Committee Chairman At Tesco, we are seeking to take a leading position on corporate responsibility matters within our industry.
Even through our period of turnaround, we have recognised the importance of corporate responsibility to rebuilding trust and transparency with a wide spectrum of our stakeholders including customers.
The Committee has played a key role in reviewing and challenging the corporate responsibility agenda of theGroup and has received updates on a range of issues, more information on which isset out below under Corporate Responsibility Committee attendance Corporate Responsibility Committee activities.
Meetings Following the departure oftwo members, the Committee is now smaller.
However, held during Directors Meetings both Deanna Oppenheimer and Mikael Olsson have provided robust challenge to the Director tenure attended proposals tabled, drawing on theircontrasting experiences from banking and retail.
The John Allan 2 2 addition ofLindsey Pownall as a member will bring an additional perspective given her Deanna Oppenheimer 2 2 knowledge of food production, marketing and supply chains.
Mikael Olsson 2 2 As we have strengthened our corporate responsibility position, the Committee has recognised that we were at an ideal point to reassess our approach to corporate Corporate Responsibility Committee responsibilities responsibility whilst maintaining the existing projects already under way.
The responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee include: We will therefore be undertaking a review of the Committee delegations from the approving the Groups corporate and social PLCBoard and also the Committee composition and terms of reference as well as obligations as a responsible citizen and overseeing ourrelationship with the corporate responsibility advisory committee.
We will also itsconduct in the context of those obligations: seektomaximise the internal talent that we have in our Corporate Responsibility team.
approving a strategy for discharging the Groups corporate and social responsibilities in such a way These actions will serve to place Tesco in the best position to make the most of our as to command respect and confidence: opportunities to make a significant impact on corporate responsibility issues.
identifying and monitoring those external developments that are likely to have a significant John Allan influence on the Groups reputation and or its Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman ability to conduct its business appropriately as a good citizen and review how best to protect that reputation or that ability: Corporate Responsibility Committee activities overseeing the creation of appropriate policies and supporting measures: The Committee recognises the huge opportunity that Tesco has to make a big difference monitoring the Groups engagement with external on a national and international level and how even modest action on our part can have a stakeholders and other interested parties: and significant impact on our customers, our communities and our environment.
As a result, ensuring that appropriate communications while the Committee were keen for a range of projects to be pursued, they determined policies are in place and working effectively that initiatives should be identified where even small changes would make a large impact tobuild and protect the Groups reputation for awide spectrum of stakeholders.
The terms of reference for the Corporate Responsibility This year, we have seen progress on a range of projects: Committee were reviewed during the year and are available at www.
our Eat Happy Farm to Fork project reached a key milestone in November 2015 with 1million children having participated in our education trail initiative aimed at raising awareness about the process of food production and making healthy eating choices: following the governments introduction of a levy on plastic bags, 11.5m has been We recognise raised from the Bags of Help scheme where proceeds from sales of carrier bags the importance of arereinvested into local projects to develop under-utilised outdoor areas: and perhaps the project that the Committee is most proud of is the Community Food corporate responsibility Connection, aimed at reducing food waste.
More details can be found below.
to rebuilding trust Community Food Connection partnership with FareShare FoodCloud andtransparency.
Building trusted partnerships has been a focus for the Committee this year and an opportunity was identified to work with two organisations with an initiative to tackle food waste.
This project is being run through a partnership with UK charity FareShare, utilising the technology platform developed by FoodCloud, an Irish social enterprise.
The platform allows communication where surplus levels of food have been identified at stores and provides for the worthwhile distribution of this food throughcarefully vetted and responsible local charities and community groups.
A successful trial at12large-format stores with ambient food was completed this year.
We are now embarking on an expansion to cover multiple store sizes and include chilled food, all due to be in place by the end of 2017.
One key challenge with expanding the work of these two organisations has been increasing the scale ofdistribution.
Using our knowledge and experience in this area, Tesco has invested time and resources into developing the increased infrastructure required.
The Committee is proud that this infrastructure will be an open platform.
This will allow other food retailers including our competitors to work with FareShare FoodCloud in the future.
This will ensure that the initial investment by Tesco will be used not only to reduce Tescos food waste but to impact the amount of food wasted on a national scale, across numerous food retailers, benefitting thousands of charities.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 43
