Relations with our investors Shareholder engagement The Board is committed to conducting constructive dialogue with shareholders to enable clear communication of the Companys objectives and to understand what is important toshareholders.
Debt investors Institutional shareholders Our treasury team holds biannual formal review During the year, numerous activities were undertaken to engage with our institutional meetings with all of our relationship banks and shareholders: maintains regular contact with them.
the Chairman, CEO and CFO held regular meetings throughout the year with institutional shareholders and updated the Board on the outcome of those meetings: Our treasury team held calls with the three credit roundtable events and investor roadshows were organised and conferences attended rating agencies following the results announcements and the CFO and Group Treasury Director met with inthe UK, Europe and North America: each of the ratings agencies during the year.
institutional shareholders were invited to attend the Companys full-year and half-year results presentations.
The presentation slides and a webcast of the full-year and half-year Following the full and half year results, the CFO and results presentations were made available at www.
com along with transcripts Group Treasury Director held conference calls with of all the results presentations and trading statement conference calls: fixed income investors.
the Chairman and Remuneration Committee Chairman held meetings with major shareholders todiscuss governance and strategy: we also engaged Socially Responsible Investors by holding calls to discuss various issues and responding to queries: and a survey of a cross-section of shareholders was undertaken during the year in order toassess shareholder perception of the Company.
The outcome of shareholder interactions are reported to the Board by the Investor Relations team in order to ensure that all Non-executive Directors develop an understanding of the view of major shareholders.
All Non-executive Directors are able to attend scheduled meetings with major shareholders.
Retail shareholders Corporate website Our website www.
tescoplc provides information to retail shareholders on understanding the business, results and financial performance and shareholder meetings.
Video recordings of the CEO and CFO commenting on results statements were uploaded to ourwebsite during the year, along with the results presentations and transcripts of analysts calls.
Shareholder Meetings Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM was held on Friday 26 June 2015 at The QEII Centre, in Westminster, London.
At the AGM, all shareholders were given an opportunity to question the Board on the business being proposed.
All Directors attended the AGM and were available to answer questions.
Voting on all resolutions was by way of a poll, which allowed shareholders to vote by proxy if they could not attend the AGM.
Shareholders were given the option to vote for or against the resolutions or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form and results made it clear that a vote withheld was not a vote in law and would not be counted.
The results of voting at the AGM were published on our website at www.
Shareholder Meetings General Meeting A General Meeting GM was held on Wednesday 30 September 2015 at Park Plaza Riverbank in London to approve the sale of Homeplus, Tescos retail business in the Republic of Korea.
In accordance with the resolution passed by shareholders at the AGM, the GM was called on 14 clear days notice.
The Board considered that the shorter notice period was merited by the time-sensitive nature of the transaction and was in the best interest of shareholders as a whole, taking into account the circumstances and business of the GM.
Voting was by way of a poll and shareholders were able to vote by proxy if they could notattend the GM.
Shareholders were given the opportunity to ask questions about thetransaction.
The results of voting at the GM were published on our website at www.
The AGM for this year will be held on Thursday 23 June 2016 at the ExCel Centre in London.
Full details will be included in the Notice of Meeting sent to all shareholders.
42 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
