Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial calendar Financial year end 2015 16 27 February 2016 Annual General Meeting 1Q interim management statement 23 June 2016 Half-year end 2016 17 27 August 2016 Interim Results 5 October 2016 Financial year-end 2016 17 25 February 2017 Please note that these dates are provisional and subject to change, with the exception of the financial year-end and half-year-end.
Glossary Capital expenditure Capex Market capitalisation The additions to property, plant and equipment, investment property and The total value of all Tesco shares calculated as total number of shares intangible assets excluding assets acquired under business combinations.
multiplied by closing share price at year-end.
Capital employed MTN Net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets of the disposal MTN refers to Medium Term Note.
groups and non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Net debt Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before Net debt excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes that of the exceptional items discontinued operations.
Net debt comprises bank and other borrowings, Profit after tax before exceptional items attributable to owners of the parent finance lease payables, net derivative financial instruments, joint venture divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during loans and other receivables and net interest receivables payables, offset the financial year adjusted for the effects of potentially dilutive options.
by cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investments.
The dilutive effect is calculated on the full exercise of all potentially dilutive ordinary share options granted by the Group, including performance-based Net Promoter Score NPS options which the Group considers to have been earned.
This is a loyalty measure based on a single question requiring a score between 0-10.
The NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before detractors scoring 0-6 from the percentage of promoters scoring 9-10. exceptional items and net pension finance costs This generates a figure between -100 and 100 which is the NPS.
Profit after tax before exceptional items and net pension finance costs attributable to owners of the parent divided by the weighted average number Operating margin of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year adjusted for the effects Operating margin is based on operating profit before exceptional items of potentially dilutive options.
The dilutive effect is calculated on the full and on revenue.
exercise of all potentially dilutive ordinary share options granted by the Group, including performance-based options which the Group considers Operating profit before exceptional items to have been earned.
This is the headline measure of the Groups performance, and is based on operating profit before the impact of exceptional items.
Enterprise Value This is calculated as Market capitalisation plus Net debt.
Pension deficit, IAS 19 basis post tax This is post-employment benefit obligations net of the related deferred tax.
Exceptional items Exceptional items relate to certain costs or incomes that derive from events Profit before tax before exceptional items and net pension or transactions that fall within the normal activities of the Group but which, finance costs individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, are excluded from the Groups This measure excludes exceptional items and the net finance costs of the non-GAAP performance measures by virtue of their size and nature in order defined benefit pension deficit as the costs are impacted by corporate bond to better reflect managements view of the performance of the Group.
yields, which can fluctuate significantly.
The Group exercises judgement in assessing whether items should be Retail cash flow classified as exceptional.
This assessment covers both the nature of the Cash generated from used in operations for retail activities.
item, cause of occurrence and the scale of impact of that item on reported performance.
Reversals of previous exceptional items are assessed based Return on capital employed ROCE on the same criteria.
Return divided by the average of opening and closing capital employed.
FTE Return FTE refers to full-time equivalents.
Profit before exceptional items and interest, after tax applied at effective rate of tax.
Free cash flow Free cash flow is net cash generated from used in operating activities less Revenue exc.
fuel capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, investment property This is the headline measure of revenue for the Group.
It excludes the impact and intangible assets.
of sales, predominantly fuel sales, made at petrol filling stations, due to the volatilities associated with movements in fuel prices.
Growth in sales The YoY% year-on-year movement in revenue exc.
fuel for continuing RPI operations excluding fuel for 52 weeks at constant foreign exchange rate.
RPI refers to Retail Price Index.
Like-for-like Total indebtedness Like-for-like is the growth in sales from stores that have been open for at Net debt plus IAS 19 deficit in the pension schemes net of associated least ayear at a constant foreign exchange rate and includes online sales.
deferred tax plus the present value of future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases.
LPI LPI refers to Limited Price Inflation.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 167
