Notes to the Group financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies General information Provision of services Tesco PLC the Company is a public limited company incorporated Revenue from the provision of services is recognised when the service and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 is provided and the revenue can be measured reliably, based on the terms Registration number 445790.
The address of the registered office is of the contract.
Tesco House, Shire Park, Kestrel Way, Welwyn Garden City, AL7 1GA, UK.
Where the Group acts as an agent selling goods or services, only the The main activities of the Company and its subsidiaries together, the commission income is included within revenue.
Group are those of retailing and retail banking.
Financial services Basis of preparation Revenue consists of interest, fees and income from the provision of insurance.
The consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and endorsed by the European Union EU, and those parts of the Companies Act receivables is determined using the effective interest rate method.
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated Group financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally rounded to Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts for certain financial instruments, share-based payments, customer loyalty on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
programmes and net pension liabilities that have been measured at fair value.
Fees in respect of services credit card interchange fees, late payment and The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, ATM revenue are recognised as the right to consideration accrues through a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate the provision of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred as the service Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in is rendered.
Further detail is contained within the going concern statement included in the Directors report on page 73.
The Group generates commission from the sale and service of motor and home insurance policies underwritten by Tesco Underwriting Limited, or in The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently a minority of cases by a third-party underwriter.
This is based on commission to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
rates, which are independent of the profitability of underlying insurance policies.
Similar commission income is also generated from the sale of white Basis of consolidation label insurance products underwritten by other third-party providers.
The consolidated Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate Parent Company Tesco PLC, all entities Clubcard, loyalty and other initiatives controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share The cost of Clubcard and loyalty initiatives is part of the fair value of the of its interests in joint ventures and associates.
consideration received and is deferred and subsequently recognised over the period that the awards are redeemed.
The deferral is treated as a deduction The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2016 from revenue.
prior financial year 53 weeks ended 28 February 2015.
For the UK and the Republic of Ireland UK & ROI, the results are for the 52 weeks ended The fair value of the points awarded is determined with reference to the fair 27 February 2016 prior financial year 53 weeks ended 28 February 2015. value to the customer and considers factors such as redemption via Clubcard For all other operations, the results are for the calendar year ended 29 deals versus money-off-in-store and redemption rate.
February 2016 prior calendar year ended 28 February 2015.
Rental income Subsidiaries Rental income is recognised in the period in which it is earned, in accordance Subsidiaries are consolidated in the Groups financial statements from the with the terms of the lease.
date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Commercial income Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and Consistent with standard industry practice, the Group has agreements with expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing suppliers whereby volume-related allowances, promotional and marketing the consolidated financial statements.
allowances and various other fees and discounts are received in connection with the purchase of goods for resale from those suppliers.
Most of the Joint ventures and associates income received from suppliers relates to adjustments to a core cost price The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements under of a product, and as such is considered part of the purchase price for that IFRS 11 Joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Sometimes receipt of the income is conditional on the Group This assessment required the exercise of judgement as set out in Note 13. performing specified actions or satisfying certain performance conditions associated with the purchase of the product.
These include achieving agreed The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is included in purchases or sales volume targets and providing promotional or marketing the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Other Comprehensive materials and activities or promotional product positioning.
Whilst there Income using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures is no standard definition, these amounts receivable from suppliers in and associates are carried in the Group Balance Sheet at cost plus postconnection with the purchase of goods for resale are generally termed acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity, less commercial income.
The carrying values of investments in joint ventures and associates include acquired goodwill.
Commercial income is recognised when earned by the Group, which occurs when all obligations conditional for earning income have been discharged, If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds and the income can be measured reliably based on the terms of the contract.
its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not recognise The income is recognised as a credit within cost of sales.
Where the income further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments earned relates to inventories which are held by the Group at period ends, on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
the income is included within the cost of those inventories, and recognised in cost of sales upon sale of those inventories.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Amounts due relating to commercial income are recognised within other receivables, except in cases where the Group currently has a legally enforceable Revenue right of set-off and intends to offset amounts due from suppliers against Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable for amounts owed to those suppliers, in which case only the net amount receivable the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
Accrued commercial income is recognised within accrued income when commercial income earned has not been invoiced at Sale of goods the balance sheet date.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have transferred to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue is recorded net of returns, discounts offers and value added taxes.
90 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Note 1 Accounting policies continued Impairment of non-financial assets Finance income Finance income, excluding income arising from financial services, Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the is recognised in the period to which it relates using the effective recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit to which the goodwill interest rate method.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal, and value in use.
When the recoverable amount of the cashFinance costs generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of recognised.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Group qualifying assets are capitalised.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Group Income Statement in finance For all other non-financial assets including intangible assets and property, costs, excluding those arising from financial services, in the period in which plant and equipment the Group performs impairment testing where there they occur.
For Tesco Bank, finance cost on financial liabilities is determined are indicators of impairment.
If such an indicator exists, the recoverable using the effective interest rate method and is recognised in cost of sales.
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that Business combinations and goodwill are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable The Group accounts for all business combinations by applying the acquisition amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs On acquisition, the assets including intangible assets, liabilities and of disposal.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit contingent liabilities of an acquired entity are measured at their fair value.
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An Non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the consideration Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount transferred over the net fair value of the Groups share of the net assets, of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture of the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does or associate and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no If the consideration is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net impairment loss had been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity i. e. a in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately discount on acquisition, the difference is credited to the Group Income as a credit to the Group Income Statement.
Statement in the period of acquisition.
Investment property At the acquisition date of a subsidiary, goodwill acquired is recognised as Investment property assets are carried at cost less accumulated an asset and is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
The depreciation benefit from the business combinations synergies and to the lowest level policies for investment property are consistent with those described for at which management monitors the goodwill.
Goodwill arising on the owner-occupied property.
acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within the carrying Short-term and other investments value of the investment.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the Short-term and other investments in the Group Balance Sheet comprise profit or loss on disposal.
receivables, loan receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
Where the Group obtains control of a joint venture or associate, the Receivables and loan receivables are recognised at amortised cost.
Groups previously-held interests in the acquired entity is remeasured Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value.
to its acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Refer to the financial instruments accounting policy for further detail.
Intangible assets Inventories Intangible assets, such as software and pharmacy licences, are measured Inventories comprise goods and development properties held for resale.
initially at acquisition cost or costs incurred to develop the asset.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell Development expenditure incurred on an individual project is capitalised using the weighted average cost basis.
Directly attributable costs and only if specific criteria are met including that the asset created will probably incomes including applicable commercial income are included in the cost generate future economic benefits.
Intangible assets acquired in a business of inventories.
combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Cash and cash equivalents Following initial recognition, intangible assets with finite useful lives are Cash and cash equivalents in the Group Balance Sheet consist of cash at carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment bank, in hand, demand deposits with banks, loans and advances to banks, losses.
They are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful certificates of deposits and other receivables together with short-term lives, at 10%25% of cost per annum.
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Property, plant and equipment Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
Property, plant and when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis to its residual value over its transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The following depreciation rates are applied for the Group: freehold and leasehold buildings with greater than 40 years unexpired Discontinued operations at 2.5% of cost: In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued leasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired are depreciated operations, the net results of the Korean and Chinese operations are by equal annual instalments over the unexpired period of the lease: and presented within discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement fixtures and fittings, office equipment and motor vehicles at rates for which the comparatives have been restated and the assets and liabilities varying from 9% to 50%, with predominantly all assets depreciated of these operations are presented separately in the Group Balance Sheet.
Refer to Note 7 for further details.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful Leases lives on the same basis as owned assets or, when shorter, over the term of Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease the relevant lease.
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Refer to Note 33 for additional disclosures on judgements made relating to operating leases including those arising from sale and leasebacks.
91 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued The Group as a lessor Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that at the amount of the Groups net investment in the leases.
Finance lease income taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of differences can be utilised.
return on the Groups net investment in the lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient The Group as a lessee taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their recovered.
fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when there is included in the Group Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease is a legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets against current payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the Group Income Foreign currencies Statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at Group Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies Sale and leaseback are retranslated to the functional currency at the rates prevailing on the A sale and leaseback transaction is one where the Group sells an asset balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Group Income Statement.
and immediately re-acquires the use of the asset by entering into a lease with the buyer.
The non-monetary assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Pounds Sterling The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Group Balance Sheet: the substance of the transaction by applying the lease classification profits and losses are translated at average exchange rates for the relevant principles described above whether or not the sale was made at the accounting periods.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in the assets fair value and the relationship with the buyer, which is based Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and are included in the Groups on levels of control and influence the buyer may be an associate, joint translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income venture or an unrelated party.
or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
For sale and finance leasebacks, any profit from the sale is deferred and Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating leasebacks, generally entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss from the at the closing rate.
sale is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Financial instruments Post-employment obligations Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group Balance For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
value using the projected unit credit method whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the Group Income Statement: service costs are spread systematically over value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate the expected service lives of employees and financing costs are recognised method, less provision for impairment.
in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Investments Investments are recognised at trade date.
Investments are classified as Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense as either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are recognised at fair value.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, until Share-based payments the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant date the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo model.
The resulting cost is charged income is included in the Group Income Statement for the period.
Interest to the Group Income Statement over the vesting period.
The value of the calculated using the effective interest rate method is recognised in the Group charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
Dividends on an available-for-sale equity instrument are recognised in the Group Income Statement when the entitys right to receive Taxation payment is established.
The tax expense included in the Group Income Statement consists of current and deferred tax.
Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax expense is recognised in the Group Income Statement except losses.
Income from these financial assets is calculated on an effective yield to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the Group Statement basis and is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
of Comprehensive Income or directly in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, in which case it is recognised in the Group Statement of Impairment of loans and advances to customers Comprehensive Income or directly in the Group Statement of Changes At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its loans and advances to determine whether there is any indication that those in Equity, respectively.
assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used group of financial assets classified as loans and advances has been incurred, for taxation purposes.
the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets discounted at period when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on the tax rates the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition.
Impairment that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Group Income Statement, except significant and collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
In when it relates to items charged or credited directly to the Group Statement making collective assessments of impairment, financial assets are grouped of changes in Equity or the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, into portfolios on the basis of similar risk characteristics.
Future cash flows in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity, or other from these portfolios are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash comprehensive income, respectively.
flows and historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk 92 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Note 1 Accounting policies continued characteristics.
Historical loss experience is adjusted, on the basis of current Cash flow hedging observable data, to reflect the effects of current conditions not affecting the Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when period of historical experience.
they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, Impairment losses are recognised in the Group Income Statement and the or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
The effective element of any carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets is reduced gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly by establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If in a subsequent period in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from other comprehensive loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once an impairment loss has been income and recognised in the Group Income Statement in the same period recognised on a financial asset or group of financial assets, interest income or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the Group Income is recognised on the carrying amount using the rate of interest at which Statement.
The classification of the effective portion when recognised in estimated future cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment.
the Group Income Statement is the same as the classification of the hedged transaction.
Any element of the remeasurement of the derivative instrument Loan impairment provisions are established on a portfolio basis taking into that does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge is recognised immediately account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit scores and in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs.
defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant factors in establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or if a voluntary fide-designation takes The portfolios include credit card receivables and other personal advances.
place or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any The future credit quality of these portfolios is subject to uncertainties cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from reported retained in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity until the forecast loan impairment provisions.
These uncertainties include the economic transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the Group Income environment, notably interest rates and their effect on customer spending, Statement.
If a forecast hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity is reclassified to the Group Income Statement.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, Net investment hedging net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestDerivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between when they hedge the Groups net investment in an overseas operation.
The proceeds and redemption value being recognised in the Group Income effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from remeasuring the Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
derivative instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Group Income Trade payables Statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair are included in the Group Income Statement when the foreign operation value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective is disposed of.
Treatment of agreements to acquire non-controlling interests Equity instruments The Group has entered into a number of agreements to purchase the Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds remaining shares of subsidiaries with non-controlling interests.
received, net of direct issue costs.
The net present value of the expected future payments are shown as a Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting financial liability.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to reassessed with any changes recognised in the Group Income Statement foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity risks arising from operating, within finance income or costs.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes: however, if derivatives do not Offsetting financial instruments qualify for hedge accounting they are accounted for as such.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a current legally enforceable right to offset the Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
remeasurement are immediately recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant Provisions gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax discount rate that to document from inception the relationship between the item being hedged reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the and the hedging instrument.
risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
The Group is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, Provisions for onerous leases are recognised when the Group believes that which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
the unavoidable costs of meeting or exiting the lease obligations exceed the This effectiveness testing is performed at each reporting period to assess economic benefits expected to be received under the lease.
whether the hedge remains highly effective.
Use of assumptions and estimates Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one year The preparation of the consolidated Group financial statements requires from the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, Fair value hedging income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group Income Statement ongoing basis.
together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Critical estimates and assumptions that are applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements include: Depreciation and amortisation The Group exercises judgement to determine useful lives and residual values of intangibles: property, plant and equipment: and investment property.
The assets are depreciated down to their residual values over their estimated useful lives.
93 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued Impairment Provisions relating to Tesco Bank a Impairment of goodwill The Group has provisions for potential customer redress which it handles The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
inaccordance with provisions of the regulatory policy statement PS 10 12.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating units are based on the higher of value in use and fair value less cost of disposal.
These calculations In November 2015, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA issued a require the use of estimates as set out in Note 10.
Consultation Paper CP15 39 rules and guidance in payment protection insurance complaints.
This paper proposes: b Impairment of assets a deadline, to be confirmed, in 2018, by which customers would need The Group has determined each store as a separate cash-generating unit to make payment protection insurance complaints: and for impairment testing.
Where there are indicators of impairment, the Group new rules and guidance on the handling of PPI complaints in light of performs an impairment test.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating the Supreme Courts decision in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance units are based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs of Limited Plevin.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow projections generally over five years using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, and The final FCA rules, and the implications of the Plevin decision, remain extrapolated beyond five years using estimated long-term growth rates.
Although a significant degree of uncertainty also remains with These calculations require the use of estimates as set out in Note 11.
Fair regard to the ultimate cost of settling PPI complaints, in particular the volume value is determined with the assistance of independent, professional valuers of complaints arising from customers ahead of any deadline to be confirmed where appropriate.
by the FCA, the provision balance represents managements best estimate at the reporting date of that cost.
c Impairment of loans and advances to customers and banks The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise The Group also holds a provision in respect of customer redress relating incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans and to the historic sale of certain cardholder protection products to credit receivables and carried at amortised cost.
These calculations require the use card customers.
The level of provision held is based on managements of estimates as set out in the accounting policy note for impairment of loans best estimate at the reporting date, relating to the number and value of and advances to customers.
cases for which compensation may be paid under an industry-wide scheme of arrangement that closed on 18 March 2016.
Managements assumption in Commercial income assessing provision adequacy is that a small number of ex gratia settlements Accounting for the amount and timing of recognition of commercial income will continue throughout the next financial year.
as defined on page 90 may require the exercise of judgement.
The key estimates and judgements made in the recognition of commercial income The Group holds a further provision in respect of customer redress relating are as follows: to instances where certain requirements of the CCA for post-contract documentation were not fully complied with.
In arriving at the provision volume-related allowances relate to amounts receivable by the Group required, the Group has considered the legal and regulatory position with for achieving agreed purchase or sales targets within a set period.
Where respect to these matters and has sought legal advice which it took into volume-related allowances span different accounting periods, the amount account when making its judgement.
The provision represents managements of income recognised in each period is estimated based on the probability best estimate at the reporting date of the cost of concluding the redress that the Group will meet contractual target volumes based on historical programme for loan and credit card customers, and in making the estimate and forecast performance: and management have exercised judgement as to both the timescale for completing promotional, marketing and other allowances cover amounts receivable the redress campaign and the final scope of any amounts payable.
by the Group to support the promotion, marketing and advertising of specific items including promotional pricing discounts, in-store displays, Inventories margin protection and cost reimbursements.
There is limited judgement An inventory provision is booked for cases where the realisable value from sale or estimation involved in recognising income for these allowances.
The of the inventory is estimated to be lower than the inventory carrying value.
Group assesses its performance against the obligations conditional on The inventory provision is estimated taking into account various factors, earning the income, with the income recognised either over time as the including prevailing sales prices of inventory item, the seasonality of the obligations are met, or recognised at the point when all obligations are items sales profile and losses associated with slow-moving inventory items.
met, dependent on the contractual requirements.
Post-employment benefit obligations Refer to Note 15, Note 16 and Note 19 for additional income statement and The present value of the post-employment benefit obligations depends on balance sheet disclosure.
a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the net cost income Provisions for pensions include the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions Provisions have been made for property contracts, dilapidations, will impact the carrying amount of post-employment benefit obligations.
Key restructuring, post-employment benefits and customer redress.
These assumptions for post-employment benefit obligations are disclosed in Note 26. provisions are estimates and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
The difference between expectations Classification of mall properties and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such The Group exercises judgement in determining the appropriate classification determination is made.
of shopping malls as investment properties or property, plant and equipment.
Factors considered in making this determination include the level of services Property provisions provided to tenants, who manages the mall and any shared facilities, the Property provisions comprise onerous lease provisions, including leases proportion of sublet space to own-use space and the variability of earnings on unprofitable stores and vacant properties, and other onerous contracts from the property.
These provisions are based on the least net cost of fulfilling or exiting the contract.
Operating segments The Groups reportable segments are in line with its management reporting The calculation of the value in use of the leased property to the Group structure.
Retail operations in different countries are deemed to share similar is based on the same assumptions for discount rates, growth rates and economic characteristics, products, customers and supply chain operations, expected change in margins as those for Group owned properties, as and have therefore been aggregated to the Retail UK and ROI segment and discussed in detail in Note 11.
The calculations also assume that the Group the Retail International segment.
Tesco Bank operates in a different industry can sublet properties at market rents.
For some leases, termination of the and reports separately.
lease at the break clause requires the Group to either purchase the property or buy out the equity ownership of the property at fair value.
No value is attributed to the purchase conditions since they are at fair value.
It is also assumed that the Group is indifferent to purchasing the properties.
94 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Note 1 Accounting policies continued Standards issued but not yet effective Free cash flow As of the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Free cash flow is net cash generated from used in operating activities less standards were in issue but not yet effective and have not yet been adopted capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, investment property by the EU.
The Group has not applied these standards in the preparation and intangible assets.
of the financial statements, and has not adopted any new or amended standards early: Net debt Net debt excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes that of the IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective for periods commencing on discontinued operations.
Net debt comprises bank and other borrowings, or after 1 January 2018 subject to endorsement by the EU.
IFRS 9 is a finance lease payables, net derivative financial instruments, joint venture replacement for IAS 39 Financial Instruments and covers three distinct loans and other receivables and net interest receivables payables, offset areas.
Phase 1 contains new requirements for the classification and by cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.
measurement of financial assets and liabilities.
Phase 2 relates to the impairment of financial assets and requires the calculation of impairment Operating margin on an expected loss basis rather than the current incurred loss basis.
Phase Operating margin is based on operating profit before exceptional items and 3 relates to less stringent requirements for general hedge accounting.
adoption of IFRS 9 is likely to have a significant impact on the Group in future periods, specifically in relation to the impairment charge recognised Total indebtedness on financial asset balances.
The full impact of this and the other phases of Net debt plus the IAS 19 deficit in the pension schemes net of associated IFRS 9 on the Group is still being assessed.
deferred tax plus the present value of future minimum rentals payable under IFRS 15, Revenues from Contracts with Customers is effective for periods non-cancellable operating leases.
commencing 1 January 2018 subject to endorsement by the EU.
IFRS 15 introduces a five-step approach to the timing of revenue recognition based on performance obligations in customer contracts.
IFRS 15 may have an impact on recognition and related disclosures.
The full impact of future adoption is still being assessed: and IFRS 16, Leases is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 subject to endorsement by the EU.
IFRS 16 provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise right of use assets and lease liabilities for all applicable leases.
The full impact of the future adoption is currently under review.
Use of non-GAAP measures The Directors have adopted new measures of performance, namely revenue exc.
fuel, operating profit before exceptional items and profit before tax before exceptional items adjusted for net pension finance costs.
These measures replace the previous measures of sales including VAT excluding IFRIC 13, trading profit and underlying profit.
The Directors believe that these non-GAAP measures provide additional useful information to shareholders on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group.
These measures are used for performance analysis.
The non-GAAP measures are not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other companies non-GAAP measures.
These measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements.
The tax impact on non-GAAP measures is included within the Group Income Statement.
fuel This is the headline measure of revenue for the Group.
It excludes the impact of sales, predominantly fuel sales, made at petrol filling stations, due to the volatilities associated with movements in fuel prices.
Operating profit before exceptional items This is the headline measure of the Groups performance, and is based on operating profit before the impact of exceptional items.
Exceptional items Exceptional items relate to certain costs or incomes that derive from events or transactions that fall within the normal activities of the Group but which, individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, are excluded from the Groups non-GAAP performance measures by virtue of their size and nature in order to better reflect managements view of the performance of the Group.
The Group exercises judgement in assessing whether items should be classified as exceptional.
This assessment covers both the nature of the item, cause of occurrence and the scale of impact of that item on reported performance.
Reversals of previous exceptional items are assessed based on the same criteria.
Profit before tax before exceptional items and net pension finance costs This measure excludes exceptional items and the net finance costs of the defined benefit pension deficit as the costs are impacted by corporate bond yields which can fluctuate significantly.
95 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
