Corporate governance report John Allan 1.
Leadership Non-executive Chairman Chairmans introduction During the past year, there has been a renewed focus on corporate governance at Tesco and the Board has spent a significant proportion of its time examining and strengthening our processes during this turnaround period for the Group.
Having a solid governance framework is key to rebuilding trust and transparency.
I am therefore pleased to confirm that the Company was fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code this year.
A central pillar of our governance framework is our Schedule of Group Delegated Authorities In this section as it sets out who is authorised to take decisions on which matters.
The Board reviewed this This corporate governance report is key schedule during the year, scrutinising the authority granted to different individuals across intended to provide shareholders with the business.
We are pleased to have created a more comprehensive document that better aclear and comprehensive view of reflects our structure and operations and that has contributed to a culture of improved theGroups governance arrangements adherence to Group policies.
This has been both atop-down and bottom-up exercise to andhow it has operated during the year.
ensure that the right people are making the right decisions at Tesco.
We have structured the report as follows toreflect the structure of the UK Corporate We have also taken additional action to promote a positive culture and tackle unfavourable Governance Code: business practices.
Our new Code of Business Conduct was relaunched in March 2015, topromote responsible and ethical behaviours at all levels of our business.
We have also p. 30 Leadership fundamentally changed the way wework with our suppliers in order to further build trusted p. 38 Effectiveness relationships with these key stakeholders for our business.
The report earlier this year p. 42 Relations with our investors fromthe Grocery Code Adjudicator GCA examining Tescos compliance with the GCA p. 43 Relations with our social and environmental Code ofPractice set out conclusions about our historic business practices that coincided stakeholders with theresults of our own independent investigations.
We are encouraged that our latest p. 44 Accountability Supplier Viewpoint measure of how suppliers view their relationship with Tesco recognises p. 48 Remuneration the positive impact of the changes we have made.
The results show a significant improvement year-on-year, increasing from 51% to 68% in the UK and from 58% to 70% for the Group as a whole.
As previously disclosed, the commercial income issue identified in September Compliance with the UK Corporate 2014 resulted in a Serious Fraud Office regulatory inquiry.
The inquiry is ongoing, and we GovernanceCode continue to co-operate fully with it.
The UK Corporate Governance Code Code sets out principles and specific provisions on how acompany should be directed and controlled to Our initiatives contribute to our aim of improving trust and transparency by ensuring that achieve standards of good corporate governance.
all colleagues understand their role and duties and by creating a culture where individuals feel empowered to speak up and voice concerns.
The 2014 version of the Code applies to the Company for the year ended 27 February 2016.
Succession planning was a key priority for the Board even before the end of the previous Acopy of the Code is available at www.
financial year when a number of Directors retired.
This year, the Nominations Committee The Board considers that the Company scheduled additional meetings in order to progress the selection of three new Non-executive complied infull with the Code during the year.
Conscious that following changes to our Board composition, female representation The following sections provide an explanation among our Directors had dropped below the 2014 AGM level of 30%, we were keen to attract of how it has applied the principles in the Code high-calibre candidates who could provide balance to our Board.
We are delighted with the and good governance principles of accountability, transparency, probity and focus on the sustainable capabilities of our chosen candidates and are pleased that we now have 27% female success oftheCompany over the longer term.
representation at Board level, which exceeds the 25% level recommended by Lord Davies in 2011.
In addition, we continue to seek to improve opportunities for talented women to progress throughout the Company and particularly to the ranks of senior and executive management.
We recognise that providing opportunities for all of our colleagues to develop provides access to a broader talent pool that will support our strategic focus on regaining competitiveness.
Having a solid Further information on the appointment process for our new Non-executive Directors can be foundon page 40 and details of diversity at Tesco are set out on page 36. governance framework The following pages set out our governance processes at Tesco and explain how we have is key to rebuilding trust achieved some of the changes we have made.
We continue to strive towards excellent and transparency.
governance at Tesco and to rebuild trust and transparency across our business.
John Allan Non-executive Chairman 30 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Governance framework The Tesco PLC Board and Executive Committee operate within a wider governance framework at Tesco.
This ensures that decisions are taken at the right level of the business by the people best placed to take them.
Our framework provides clear direction on decision making without creating burdensome processes that could impede progress.
We retain the agility to get on with running our business whilst maintaining high standards of governance that support our aim of rebuilding trust and transparency.
Having delegated the detailed operation of the business to the CEO and CFO, the Board holds them to account for .
In order to do this effectively, the Board operates through a number ofCommittees, each made up entirely of members of the Board.
Each Committee meetsseparately to the Board during the year, providing time to focus in depth on the particular key matters of audit, remuneration, nominations and corporate responsibility.
The governance framework at Tesco provides clear parameters of delegation and responsibilities from the Tesco PLC Board down through the Group as illustrated below: Tesco PLC Board Tesco PLC Board Chairman: SID: NEDs: CEO CFO: The Tesco PLC Board has responsibility for Lead the Board: Sounding board for Effective challenge Represent thelong-term success of the Group but the Promote high Chairman: and scrutiny of management day-to-day management is delegated to standards of corporate Intermediary for executive proposals: on the Board and DaveLewis as CEO and Alan Stewart as CFO.
governance: other NEDs: Review of strategic attend Committee Ensure the effectiveness Available to investors.
Dave has an Executive Committee to support of the Board.
him in the day-to-day operation of the Group, all members of which report directly to him.
Alan Stewart as CFO has a key role onthe Through their positions on Committees, the Chairman, SID and NEDs Executive Committee and has certain financial have a key role in: responsibilities delegated to him bythe Board.
agreeing the remuneration of Executive Directors: succession planning for the Board: ensuring internal controls are robust and the external audit is properly The Chairman, CEO, CFO, Senior Independent undertaken: and Director SID and Non-executive Directors reviewing the Groups corporate responsibility activities.
NEDs each haveclearly delineated roles intheoperation ofthe Board, detailsof which can be found atwww.
Delegation of Delegation of Set out on the following pages isinformation operation from operation from Board on each member ofthe Tesco PLC Board and Board to Committees to CEO and CFO Executive Committee, including details of their skills and experience.
The Board considers that there is an appropriate Board Committees balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board and its Committees and that all Directors are Audit Nominations CEO able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Corporate Remuneration Executive Committee Responsibility Disclosure Delegation to Group functions Product Legal Finance People Tesco Customer Bank Channels To ensure that decisions are taken at the appropriate level within this framework, aschedule of Matters Reserved for the Board is maintained together with a Group Delegated Authorities Schedule.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 31 Corporate governance report continued Board of Directors John Allan Non-executive Chairman Dave Lewis Group Chief Executive Alan Stewart Chief Financial Officer John was appointed to the Board as Non-executive Dave was appointed to the Board as Group Chief Alan Stewart was appointed to the Board as Chief Chairman on 1 March 2015.
Age: 51 Financial Officer on 23 September 2014.
Age: 56 Career Johns early career was with Lever Bros Career Dave completed a BA in Business Studies Career A qualified accountant, Alan started his andBristol-Myers in a variety of marketing roles.
in1987 and went on to complete the Advanced career in investment banking with HSBC.
He Having held a number of executive positions in Management programme at Harvard Business School.
became CFO at Thomas Cook Holdings in 1998 different organisations, John joined the Board of and was appointed UK CEO in 2001.
From there Dave joined Unilever in 1987 and worked in a Deutsche Post when it acquired Exel in 2005 and hemoved to WHSmith as Group CFO.
In 2008, variety of different roles over nearly three decades, managed the integration of the two businesses.
hewas appointed CFO at AWAS, a leading aircraft which took him across Europe, Asia and the Americas.
John held the post of CFO from 2007 to 2009 leasing business before moving to Marks & Spencer withDeutsche Post.
Skills and competencies During his career, in 2010 totake up the role of CFO.
Dave has been responsible for a number of business John became Chairman of Dixons Retail PLC Skills and competencies Alan brings extensive turnarounds.
He has experience across many sectors inSeptember 2009 and held this role during a corporate finance and accounting experience in both in the UK and overseas, and has significant comprehensive turnaround programme during industries as varied as retail, travel and banking.
experience in brand marketing, customer which a friendly merger of equals was completed He has held a number of senior roles and has management and general management roles.
with Carphone Warehouse in August 2014 to form significant listed company experience at Board level.
External appointments Dave is currently External appointments Alan is currently a a Non-executive Director of Sky PLC, and Skills and competencies John has substantial Non-executive Director of Diageo plc, a member a Director and a member of the Governance experience in marketing, buying and retail of the CIMA Advisory Board and Chairman of Committee of the Consumer Goods Forum.
operations in addition to substantial executive thePensions Committee at The 100 Group.
Heisalso Chair of Champions 12.3, a UN leadership experience both in the UK and overseas.
programme formed of a voluntary coalition External appointments John is currently of30leaders across the globe, coming together Chairman of Barratt Developments PLC and toincrease the momentum to achieve the UN Non-executive Director of Worldpay Group PLC.
Richard Cousins Senior Independent Director Deanna Oppenheimer Non-executive Director Byron Grote Non-executive Director Richard Cousins was appointed as Non-executive Deanna was appointed to the Board as Byron Grote joined the Board as a Non-executive Director on 1 November 2014 and became the Non-executive Director on 1 March 2012.
Age: 58 Director with effect from 1 May 2015.
Age: 68 Senior Independent Director on 7 April 2015.
Age: 57 Career Deanna held various senior roles at Barclays, Career Byron spent nine years at Standard Oil Career Richard worked for BPB PLC for 15 years including Vice Chair of Global Retail Banking and ofOhio prior to it being acquired by BP PLC in 1987. and was Group Chief Executive from 2000 to 2005.
Chief Executive of Europe Retail and Business From 1988 to 2000, he worked across BP in a variety Richard was a Non-executive Director of Reckitt Banking.
She has also served as a Non-executive of commercial, operational and executive roles and Benckiser Group PLC from 2009 to 2014 and of Director of Catellus and Plum Creek Timber.
was appointed CFO of BP PLC in 2002, a role that he HBOS PLC and Bank of Scotland from 2007 to 2009. held until 2011.
Byron then served as BPs Executive Skills and competencies Deanna has strong Vice President, Corporate Business Activities.
Skills and competencies Richard brings valuable banking and retail experience.
She also has UK and international corporate expertise to the expertise in brand management.
Skills and competencies Byron brings extensive Board.
He has experience in operational research, executive and Non-executive financial and strategic External appointments Deanna is the founder strategic planning and has held a number of key experience to the Board.
of CameoWorks LLC a financial services advisory management roles.
firm and a Non-executive Director at the AXA External appointments Byron is currently a External appointments Richard has been the Group.
She isaNon-executive Director of Tesco Non-executive Director on the Boards of Anglo Group CEO of Compass Group PLC since 2006 Bank and aNon-executive Director and Chair of American PLC, Standard Chartered PLC and Akzo and is also a member of the Advisory Board of the Risk Committee of Worldpay Group PLC.
Nobel NV, and was previously a Non-executive Lancaster University Business School.
He is also a member of theEuropean Audit Committee Leadership Network and an emeritus member of the Cornell Johnson School Advisory Council at Cornell University.
32 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Mikael Olsson Non-executive Director Mark Armour Non-executive Director Alison Platt Non-executive Director Mikael joined the Board as a Non-executive Mark joined the Board as a Non-executive Director Alison joined the Board as a Non-executive Director on 1 November 2014.
Age: 53 Career Mikael was CEO and President of the Career Mark was CFO of Reed Elsevier Group PLC Career Alison is the Chief Executive of Countrywide IKEAGroup from 2009 until 2013.
During his time now RELX Group PLC from 1996 until 2012 and PLC and was previously Managing Director at at IKEA, he held a wide range of roles across the ofits two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC Bupa, responsible for International Development business and was a member oftheExecutive andReed Elsevier NV.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier Markets.
She has held a range of senior posts Management Group of IKEAfrom 1995 in 1995, Mark was a Partner at Price Waterhouse including ChiefOperating Officer of the UK private until 2013. inLondon.
Mark is a fellow of the Institute of hospitals business at Bupa and a number of senior Chartered Accountants.
Skills and competencies With close to 35 years in leading roles at the worlds largest home furnishings Skills and competencies Mark brings significant She was previously chair of Opportunity Now, retailer, Mikael brings valuable retail and value chain financial and international experience to the Board, which seeks to accelerate change for women experience as well as knowledge of sustainability, gained from his long career as a CFO for a major in theworkplace and was also a Non-executive people and strategy in an international global business.
He also has considerable experience Director of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office environment.
of digital business transition, which is relevant for between 2005 and 2010. our progress on multi-channel initiatives.
External appointments Mikael has been a Skills and competencies Alison has a wealth of Non-executive Director of Volvo Cars Group External appointments Mark is a Non-executive relevant experience of the property sector and since 2013 and Vice Chairman of the Board since Director of the Financial Reporting Council and a customer service delivery.
She also has significant November 2013.
Mikael is also Non-executive Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit business-to-business and international commercial Director of Ikano S. A. Lindengruppen AB and Committee of SABMiller PLC.
The Schiphol Group and a Board member of External appointments Alison is a Non-executive the Global Child Forum.
Director of Cable & Wireless Communications PLC.
Simon Patterson Non-executive Director Lindsey Pownall Non-executive Director Committee membership at 12 April 2016 Simon joined the Board as a Non-executive Lindsey joined the Board as a Non-executive Nominations Committee Director on 1 April 2016.
Age: 54 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Career Simon is a Managing Director of Silver Career Lindsey Pownall was, until 31 December Corporate Responsibility Committee LakePartners, a leading global technology 2015, Chief Executive of Samworth Brothers, investment firm, having joined the firm in 2005. theleading UK supplier of premium quality chilled Prior to joining Silver Lake, he was a member of andambient foods.
She joined Samworths as a Stuart Chambers and Ken Hanna retired thefounding management team of the logistics Commercial Manager over 20 years ago and was as Non-executive Directors on 26 June 2015. software company GF-X acquired by Descartes promoted to Sales Director of a key division in 1997. and worked in various management roles at the Lindsey was then promoted in 1999 to Managing Patrick Cescau retired as a Non-executive Director Financial Times.
He has previously served on the Director of Samworths largest chilled food on 7 April 2015.
Boards of Skype, MultiPlan and Gerson Lehrman.
business, manufacturing sandwiches for the high street, before joining the Samworth Board in 2001.
Skills and competencies Simon has significant Gareth Bullock retired as a Non-executive Director management experience and has held various Skills and competencies Lindsey has significant on 5 March 2015. leadership roles in established and start-up experience in food, grocery and retail brand digitalmedia and software businesses.
development as well as a wealth of experience Sir Richard Broadbent retired as Chairman on in supply leadership and strategic development.
External appointments Simon is currently a Board member of Dell Inc. and Intelsat S. A. and a External appointments None.
Trustee of the Natural History Museum in London.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 33 Corporate governance report continued Executive Committee The Executive Committee is composed of individuals with proven track records in their areaof expertise and commitment to the teams that they lead.
Dave Lewis Group Chief Executive Dave was appointed to the Board as Group Chief Executive on 1September 2014.
His full biography appears on p. 32.
Alan Stewart Chief Financial Officer Alan was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 23September 2014.
Matt Davies UK & ROI CEO Matt was appointed to the Executive Committee asUK & ROI CEO on 11 May 2015.
As UK & ROI CEO, Matt is responsible for all of Tescos businesses in these two key countries.
Matt began his career at Arthur Anderson where hequalified as a Chartered Accountant in 1995.
Hethen moved in-house, holding senior finance positions in a number of companies before being appointed as CEO of Pets At Home Group PLC in 2004.
Matt held this position for eight years, after which hemoved to Halfords Group PLC, where he becameCEO, a role he held until 2015.
Matt served as a Non-executive Director at Dunelm Group PLC from 2012 to 2015.
Trevor Masters International CEO Trevor joined the Executive Committee in 2007.
As International CEO, Trevor is responsible for Tescos businesses in Asia, Central Europe and Turkey.
Trevor joined Tesco in 1979, starting his Tesco career as a Store Manager and later becoming aStore Director.
Trevor held the role of Operations Director for Extra format stores in the UK during a period which saw the expansion of the Extra estate from 9 to 200 stores.
He has also served as CEO Central Europe and CEO Asia.
34 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Alison Horner Chief People Officer Alison joined the Executive Committee on 1March 2011.
As Chief People Officer, Alison is responsible for setting the overall agenda for and developing people management programmes at Tesco including reward and employee relations.
Alison joined Tesco in 1999 as a Personnel Manager and was later promoted to Personnel Director for Tescos UK operations.
Alison is a Non-executive Director of Carillion PLC and a member of the Manchester Business School Advisory Board.
Benny Higgins CEO, Tesco Bank and Group Strategy Director Benny joined the Executive Committee on 28 January 2013.
As CEO of Tesco Bank, Benny is responsible for our Bank and as Group Strategy Director he has responsibility for the development of our strategic options.
Benny began his career in 1983 qualifying as an actuary.
He has since held senior positions at the Royal Bank of Scotland and has been Chief Executive of Tesco Bank since 2008.
Benny was appointed as Group Strategy Director in January 2015.
Benny holds positions with a number of external financial and treasury bodies.
Adrian Morris Group General Counsel Adrian joined the Executive Committee on 6September 2012.
As Group General Counsel, Adrian is responsible for the legal, company secretarial and compliance functions across Tesco globally.
Adrian joined Tesco in September 2012 as Group General Counsel.
Prior to Tesco, Adrian worked at BP PLC as Associate General Counsel for Refining and Marketing and prior to that at Centrica PLC, initially as European Group General Counsel and then as General Counsel for British Gas.
Jason Tarry Chief Product Officer Jason joined the Executive Committee on 1January 2015.
As Chief Product Officer, Jason is responsible foreverything related to the design, procurement and delivery of all products to Tesco channels.
In addition, he is responsible, together with the Chief Customer Officer, for the customer promotional plan.
Jason joined Tesco in October 1990 on the graduate recruitment programme.
He has held a number of positions in both food and non-food divisions.
Jason was appointed CEO of Group Clothing in 2012, which included UK & ROI store and online operations as well as taking F&F to Tescos Asia business and further afield via franchise partnerships.
Robin Terrell Chief Customer Officer Robin joined the Executive Committee on 25February 2013.
As Chief Customer Officer, Robin is responsible for ensuring that Tesco responds effectively to the needs and interests of our customers.
From 1999, Robin worked at Amazon, ultimately asVP & Managing Director, with responsibility forAmazons UK and French businesses.
Robin has alsoheld senior e-commerce and multi-channel roles at Figleaves.
com, John Lewis and House of Fraser.
Since joining Tesco in February 2013, he held the position of Group Multi-channel Director prior to being appointed as the Chief Customer Officer.
Robin is a Non-executive Director at Karen Millen.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 35 Corporate governance report continued Diversity at Tesco As set out on pages 32-35, each member of the Board and Executive Committee offer coreskillsand experience that are relevant to the successful operation of the Group.
Whilstrelevance ofskills is key, a balance between the skills represented is sought throughthe work of theNominations Committee to ensure that there is an appropriate mix ofmembers with diverse backgrounds.
This contributes to minimising the risk of group-think as different viewpoints on key issues support work to regain commercial 1.
Gender split at Board level competitiveness through promoting a healthy culture of challenge and scrutiny.
Diversity, therefore, is recognised at Tesco as being more than a question of gender although initiatives exist throughout the Group to provide greater support to women as they progress through the management pipeline.
This includes mentoring and development programmes and circle networks to allow women of different levels of seniority to connect across the business.
An illustration of our gender split at different levels of the business are set out onthe left charts no.
Although each of our Directors has a wide range of skills and experience, we have 2.
Gender split at executive level set outon the left an illustration of the key areas of expertise represented on the Board During the year, two female members chart no.
In addition, we include information on the period each Non-executive Director stepped downfrom the Executive has servedon the Board chart no.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed for an initial three-year term but they are all subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting each year.
Provided each Director is re-elected by shareholders every year, their appointment term may be extended to a second three-year term.
Details of each Non-executive Directors term of appointment is set out in their letter of appointment, which are all available forinspection on request.
Length of tenure is a key factor for the Board in determining whether a Non-executive Director is regarded as independent.
Taking into account all relevant factors as set out in the Code, all of our Non-executive Directors are considered 3.
Gender split at all employee level tobe independent.
This is apart from the Chairman who, in accordance with the Code, isnot considered independent on an ongoing basis although he was considered to be Male independent on appointment.
Female Full years Considered Date of in role at independent Name of Non-executive Director appointment 2016 AGM by the Board Richard Cousins 1 November 2014 1 Deanna Oppenheimer 1 March 2012 4 Mark Armour 2 September 2013 2 Byron Grote 1 May 2015 1 Mikael Olsson 1 November 2014 1 Alison Platt 1 April 2016 1 Simon Patterson 1 April 2016 1 4.
Board members expertise Lindsey Pownall 1 April 2016 1 Financial 3 Retail 5 Strategy 6 Marketing 2 Technology 2 5.
Tenure of Non-executive Directors 1 year 1-3 years 3 years 36 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Matters Reserved for the Board The schedule of Matters Reserved available at www.
com ensures that the Board retains overall control of the Groups affairs and among other things includes approval of: the Companys strategic and operating plans: annual and interim financial statements: major acquisitions and disposals: and Group governance policies.
Group Delegated Authorities Schedule The Group Delegated Authorities Schedule sets out who within the business has authority to take decisions based on the nature of the decision and the value associated with it.
TheGroup Delegated Authorities Schedule was reviewed during 2015 and a revised setwas approved by the Board in February 2016.
The Schedule was amended to reflect the changes that have occurred in the business over the past year and the internal restructuring that has taken place.
Greater detail has been added, including a consolidation with the matters reserved for the Board and the Executive Committee, and specific delegations to Board Committees as well as delegations tofunctions.
This provides one clear document where all relevant delegations and matters reserved are set out together.
Directors attendance at Board meetings The Nominations Committee assesses the external commitments of Board members to ensure that they each have sufficient time and energy to devote to their role with Tesco.
The Board is currently satisfied that the number of appointments held by each Director in addition to their position with Tesco is appropriate to allow them to fulfil their obligations to the Group.
This is reflected in the attendance by Directors at Board meetings from the end of the last financial year to the date of this report: Number of Meetings external held during corporate directors Meetings appointments Board Meeting Attendance tenure attended held John Allan 9 9 2 Dave Lewis 9 9 1 Alan Stewart 9 9 1 Richard Cousins 9 9 1 Deanna Oppenheimer 9 9 4 Mark Armour 9 9 3 Byron Grote 8 8 3 Mikael Olsson 9 9 5 Alison Platt 1 1 1 Simon Patterson 1 1 2 Lindsey Pownall 1 1 0 The Chairman met with the Non-executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present, during the financial year.
Among the issues discussed at these meetings were strategy, Board composition, performance of the Group, and management performance.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 37
