Notes to the Group financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies General information Provision of services Tesco PLC the Company is a public limited company incorporated Revenue from the provision of services is recognised when the service and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 is provided and the revenue can be measured reliably, based on the terms Registration number 445790.
The address of the registered office is of the contract.
Tesco House, Shire Park, Kestrel Way, Welwyn Garden City, AL7 1GA, UK.
Where the Group acts as an agent selling goods or services, only the The main activities of the Company and its subsidiaries together, the commission income is included within revenue.
Group are those of retailing and retail banking.
Financial services Basis of preparation Revenue consists of interest, fees and income from the provision of insurance.
The consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and endorsed by the European Union EU, and those parts of the Companies Act receivables is determined using the effective interest rate method.
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated Group financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally rounded to Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts for certain financial instruments, share-based payments, customer loyalty on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
programmes and net pension liabilities that have been measured at fair value.
Fees in respect of services credit card interchange fees, late payment and The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, ATM revenue are recognised as the right to consideration accrues through a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate the provision of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred as the service Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in is rendered.
Further detail is contained within the going concern statement included in the Directors report on page 73.
The Group generates commission from the sale and service of motor and home insurance policies underwritten by Tesco Underwriting Limited, or in The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently a minority of cases by a third-party underwriter.
This is based on commission to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
rates, which are independent of the profitability of underlying insurance policies.
Similar commission income is also generated from the sale of white Basis of consolidation label insurance products underwritten by other third-party providers.
The consolidated Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate Parent Company Tesco PLC, all entities Clubcard, loyalty and other initiatives controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share The cost of Clubcard and loyalty initiatives is part of the fair value of the of its interests in joint ventures and associates.
consideration received and is deferred and subsequently recognised over the period that the awards are redeemed.
The deferral is treated as a deduction The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2016 from revenue.
prior financial year 53 weeks ended 28 February 2015.
For the UK and the Republic of Ireland UK & ROI, the results are for the 52 weeks ended The fair value of the points awarded is determined with reference to the fair 27 February 2016 prior financial year 53 weeks ended 28 February 2015. value to the customer and considers factors such as redemption via Clubcard For all other operations, the results are for the calendar year ended 29 deals versus money-off-in-store and redemption rate.
February 2016 prior calendar year ended 28 February 2015.
Rental income Subsidiaries Rental income is recognised in the period in which it is earned, in accordance Subsidiaries are consolidated in the Groups financial statements from the with the terms of the lease.
date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Commercial income Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and Consistent with standard industry practice, the Group has agreements with expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing suppliers whereby volume-related allowances, promotional and marketing the consolidated financial statements.
allowances and various other fees and discounts are received in connection with the purchase of goods for resale from those suppliers.
Most of the Joint ventures and associates income received from suppliers relates to adjustments to a core cost price The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements under of a product, and as such is considered part of the purchase price for that IFRS 11 Joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Sometimes receipt of the income is conditional on the Group This assessment required the exercise of judgement as set out in Note 13. performing specified actions or satisfying certain performance conditions associated with the purchase of the product.
These include achieving agreed The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is included in purchases or sales volume targets and providing promotional or marketing the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Other Comprehensive materials and activities or promotional product positioning.
Whilst there Income using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures is no standard definition, these amounts receivable from suppliers in and associates are carried in the Group Balance Sheet at cost plus postconnection with the purchase of goods for resale are generally termed acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity, less commercial income.
The carrying values of investments in joint ventures and associates include acquired goodwill.
Commercial income is recognised when earned by the Group, which occurs when all obligations conditional for earning income have been discharged, If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds and the income can be measured reliably based on the terms of the contract.
its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not recognise The income is recognised as a credit within cost of sales.
Where the income further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments earned relates to inventories which are held by the Group at period ends, on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
the income is included within the cost of those inventories, and recognised in cost of sales upon sale of those inventories.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Amounts due relating to commercial income are recognised within other receivables, except in cases where the Group currently has a legally enforceable Revenue right of set-off and intends to offset amounts due from suppliers against Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable for amounts owed to those suppliers, in which case only the net amount receivable the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
Accrued commercial income is recognised within accrued income when commercial income earned has not been invoiced at Sale of goods the balance sheet date.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have transferred to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue is recorded net of returns, discounts offers and value added taxes.
90 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
