Accountability Byron Grote Audit Committee report Audit Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder, During my first year as Audit Committee Chairman, the Committee has continued toplay a key role within the Tesco PLC governance framework to support the Board inmatters relating to internal control, risk management and financial reporting.
During this turnaround period for the Group, the remit of the Audit Committee Audit Committee members hasbeen expanded to reflect its greater focus on the following areas: In addition to Committee Chairman Byron Grote, there are three other Committee members: Mark development of the Groups risk management and internal controls framework: Armour, Richard Cousins and Simon Patterson.
enhancement of internal controls and risk management processes: Each are independent Non-executive Directors review of the processes by which Tesco evaluates and reports its principal risks andthe Board is satisfied that a majority of members anduncertainties: of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
Paul Moore review of the Groups technology, data security, treasury and tax risks and is appointed as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
policies:and Other individuals, including the Chairman, CEO, assessment and reporting of the Groups viability in view of new Code requirements.
CFO, Head of Internal Audit and representatives ofDeloitte may also attend at the invitation of Another significant part of the Committees work this year has been the oversight of theCommittee.
aformal tender process for the Companys statutory audit contract and the subsequent Audit Committee attendance transition of audit services to Deloitte LLP Deloitte following their appointment by shareholders as the Companys new statutory auditor at the Companys 2015 Annual Meetings General Meeting.
held during Directors Meetings Director tenure attended The Committee conducted a review of the Groups compliance with the Groceries Byron Grote 6 6 Supply Code of Practice during the year.
It has also overseen the important development Mark Armour 8 7 of the Groups finance transformation programme and discussed the enhancement of Richard Cousins 8 8 IT controls as recommended by our external auditor.
Simon Patterson 1 1 Since the end of the 2015 16 financial year, Simon Patterson joined the Board with Patrick Cescau 1 0 effect from 1 April 2016 and also became a member of the Audit Committee.
Ken Hanna 2 2 Byron Grote Audit Committee responsibilities Chairman, Audit Committee The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: monitoring of the Groups financial reporting processes: consideration of the appointment of the external Audit Committee Meetings auditor, their reports to the Committee and their The Audit Committee met on eight occasions since the end of the last financial year with independence, including an assessment of their each meeting having a distinct agenda to reflect the annual financial reporting cycle of appropriateness to conduct any non-audit work: the Group.
The Committee has aforward-looking planner, which is designed to ensure review of the financial statements and announcements relating to the financial that the Committee discharges itsresponsibilities in full during the year.
This planner performance of the Company: is regularly reviewed and developed to meet the changing needs of the Group.
review and monitoring of the internal controls and risk management processes of the Group, including key financial, operational and Audit Committee meeting timeline compliance controls, and their effectiveness: 27 March 20 April 23 July 1 October 1 December 15 February 24 March 6 April review of the internal audit programme andensuring that the Internal Audit function 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 isadequately resourced and has appropriate Mark Armour missed one Audit Committee meeting this year due to a family bereavement.
standing within the Company: One Audit Committee meeting was held shortly before Patrick Cescaus departure from the Company.
discussion with the external auditor as to thenature and scope of the external audit: review of and challenge where necessary theactions and judgements of management, inrelation to the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board: review of the Companys arrangements by which employees and contractors may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties infinancial reporting or other matters: consideration of managements response to any major external or internal audit recommendations: and review of the Companys plans for businesscontinuity.
The Audit Committee terms of reference, whichwere updated in March 2015 and again in April 2016, can be found at www.
44 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Key activities A summary of some of the key matters considered at each meeting during the year is set out below: Meeting Key matters considered March 2015 Financial Results 2014 15 Internal control effectiveness Committee terms of reference GSCOP compliance programme April 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 15, including fair, balanced and understandable review Internal audit plan Review of commercial income and IT controls Audit tender process July 2015 External audit Deloitte audit plan and transition update Non-audit fees policy Internal audit update October 2015 Interim Results Statement, including going concern review Development of Viability Statement External audit Deloitte interim report Deloitte non-audit services Internal audit update December 2015 Finance year-end considerations and viability statement Treasury policy Technology risk Internal audit charter Internal audit update External audit Deloitte update to planning report Risk management update February 2016 Risk and viability Treasury funding plan Tax risk External audit Deloitte early warning report Financial Statements 2015 16 March 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Risk and control roadmap Viability statement and going concern review Group compliance update, including GSCOP compliance Internal audit plan and budget for 2016 17 External audit Deloitte update report April 2016 Tesco Bank update Update on whistleblowing process Preliminary Results announcement summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 16, including fair, balanced and understandable review Tax transparency paper Report from the Disclosure Committee, including fair, balanced and understandable review External audit Deloitte year-end final report Deloitte non-audit services During the year, the Committee has overseen the development of the Groups ongoing finance transformation programme.
A significant project has been undertaken by the Internal Audit and Group Finance teams in consultation with KPMG to redesign, simplify and test theeffectiveness of the Groups key financial controls.
The Committee continues to focus on commercial income and stock controls and receives regular updates from Internal Audit on the work that is being undertaken to review and strengthen the Groups processes in these areas.
In addition, this year the Committee reviewed the Groups risks relating to technology, treasury and tax and reported on its findings to theBoard.
In relation to the financial statements, the Committee reviewed and recommended approval of the half-yearly results and annualfinancial statements, considered impairment reviews and going concern status, discussed the viability statement, reviewed corporategovernance disclosures and monitored the statutory audit.
In response to correspondence with the FRC in relation to the 2015 accounts, the Group has made several disclosure enhancements in this years annual report.
The Committee also received update reports from the Tesco Bank AuditCommittee, Deloitte, the Disclosure Committee and the Group Compliance Committee.
Internal Audit also provided regular updates, including findings from its internal audit programme.
The Committee has also considered the Groups principal risks, whistleblowing arrangements and updates on compliance with theGroceries Supply Code of Practice.
Reports from the Internal Audit function and external auditor are received at each meeting.
One key item that our external auditor reported onthis year as an area for development was IT controls and a remediation plan is being developed by the Technology team to address the matters raised.
In addition, the Committee holds private meetings with the Internal Audit function and with the external auditor.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 45 Corporate governance report continued Significant financial statement reporting issues The Committee considered a number of significant issues in the year taking into account in all instances the views of the Companys external auditor.
The issues and how they were addressed by the Committee are detailed below: Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Going concern The Committee reviewed managements assessment of going concern with consideration of forecast cash flows, including sensitivity basisfor the to trading and expenditure plans and potential mitigating actions.
The Committee also considered the availability of financing facilities financialstatements to the Group and capital and liquidity plans of Tesco Bank.
Based on this, the Committee confirmed that the application ofthe going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Fixed asset The Committee reviewed and challenged managements impairment testing of property and technology assets and estimate of impairment onerous lease provisions.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of key assumptions and methodologies for both value and onerous in use models and fair value measurements.
This included challenging cash flows, growth rates and discount rates and the use of lease provisions independent third party valuations.
The Group has recognised a 263m charge for impaired PPE assets, together with an onerous lease provision of 150m in the year and a 169m charge for Software.
See Note 11 to the financial statements for fixed assets impairment, and Note 24 for property provisions.
Goodwill impairment The Committee reviewed managements process for testing goodwill for potential impairment and ensuring appropriate sensitivity disclosure.
This included challenging the key assumptions: principally cash flow forecasts, growth rates and discount rates.
The Group has recognised a goodwill impairment of 18m.
See Note 10 to the financial statements.
Valuation of The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the valuation of the Groups China associate, Gain Land, covering the Chinaassociate methodology and assumptions used by management, including latest market information and the use of independent valuation experts, in determining the fair value of the investment.
This included review of Gain Lands projected cash flows, growth rates and discount rates used, and the external market indicators to include in the valuation.
The carrying value was supported by the valuation.
See Note 13 to the financial statements.
Inventory The Committee reviewed managements judgements in assessing the required level of inventories provisioning and concluded that the method of estimating the carrying value of inventory remains appropriate, and that the level of provisioning is appropriate.
Tesco Bank The Committee reviewed managements judgements made in relation to Tesco Banks provisions for customer redress, insurance judgemental matters reserves and credit loss provisions, covering the estimated provision based on legal advice, estimates of the number and value of cases, and expected outcomes.
The Committee considered the reviews by the Banks own Audit Committee and Board to develop adetailed understanding of the matters.
See Note 22 and Note 24 to the financial statements.
Pensions The Committee reviewed and challenged the estimates used by management in valuing pension liabilities, principally the discount rate used.
This included review of the actuarial valuation report.
The Committee also reviewed managements assessment of the accounting treatment resulting from the closure of the defined benefit scheme.
This includes the valuation of the actuarial credit on closure andthe one-off costs.
See Note 4 and Note 26 to the financial statements.
Business combinations The Committee considered the key judgements made by management in accounting for a number of property transactions and the and disposals disposal of the Homeplus business in Korea, including property fair values for the former and the uncertainty in relation to tax payable to the authorities for the latter.
See Note 7 and Note 30 to the financial statements.
Contingent liabilities The Committee further considered managements assessment of the status of the ongoing regulatory investigations and litigation relating to the prior period.
The Committee concurred with managements assessment that due to the stage of these matters and the uncertainties regarding the outcomes, no provision was required, and disclosure as contingent liabilities at year-end was appropriate.
See Note 31 to the financial statements.
Recognition of The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the controls that exist over the recognition on commercial income, and the commercial income assessment of those controls by internal audit.
Challenge from the Committee focused on managements determination of the point of recognition of income.
See Notes 15, 16 and 19 of the financial statements.
Exceptional items The Committee considered the presentation of the Group financial statements and, in particular, the appropriateness of the presentation of exceptional items.
The Committee reviewed the nature of items identified and concurred with management that the treatment was even-handed, consistent across years and appropriately presented movements on items which have an effect over a number of years.
Consideration was also given to the quality of earnings within underlying results.
See Note 4 to the financial statements.
Effectiveness review Fair, balanced and understandable statement An external effectiveness review of the Audit Committee was carried out this year by The Committee advised the Board on whether Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation.
Further detail on the process that was the Annual Report and Financial Statements, undertaken can be found on page 41. taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the necessary Internal and external audit information to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Internal audit Group Audit & Advisory GAA The Committee concluded that the GAA is an independent assurance function within Tesco as a service to the Board and all disclosures, and the processes and controls levels of management.
Its remit is to provide independent and objective advice to facilitate, underlying their production, were appropriate influence and help the organisation to achieve its priorities.
It helps the organisation accomplish and recommended to the Board that the its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and improving Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
theeffectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
GAAs responsibilities include supporting management in the assessment and mitigation ofrisks, as well as reporting on the effectiveness of the systems of internal control as operated by management.
Management are responsible for establishing and maintaining anappropriate system of risk identification and internal control, and for the prevention and detection of irregularities and fraud.
GAA facilitate the Groups risk management processes with the Audit Committee and Board.
46 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Internal control Auditor transition process Following a formal tender process, Deloitte The Board monitors the key elements of the Companys internal control framework were appointed as our auditor at the 2015 throughout the year and has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk AGM.
We have therefore complied withthe management and internal controls.
To support the Board in this years annual assessment, requirements of The Statutory AuditServices areport was prepared by GAA which described the arrangements that the Board had put for Large Companies Market Investigation inplace for internal control and risk management systems, and summarised the key issues Order 2014.
Since then, the AuditCommittee has overseen the transition of the external audit ornon-compliance arising from those processes.
The internal control framework is intended work to Deloitte through a number of activities: to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only workshops and meetings were held provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mistatement or loss.
betweenDeloitte and key management and executives, including individuals outside of The Group has commenced a number of key transformation programmes in the year.
the finance function e. g. buyers, property Thesewill drive improvement and consistency in our processes across our control environment.
so that the new auditor could rapidly develop an understanding of Tescos In particular, there are clear plans in place to enhance IT controls and our controls around controls and processes as well as historical information security.
To further strengthen our control environment we are building a matters, in particular key areas of judgement.
methodical process to drive greater alignment and integration of risk, controls, assurance and further meetings were held to discuss the oversight across the business.
The key elements of the Companys risk management process audit scope and approach that Deloitte used are set out on the left.
to create a detailed audit plan, which was presented to the Audit Committee in July 2015 and updated in November 2015.
External audit Deloitte completed a review of the interim Following a formal tender process, Deloitte were appointed as the Companys new statutory results and carried out some advanced audit auditor at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Company intends to put the external audit procedures on the period 10 results and out to tender every 10 years in the future.
As Deloitte were appointed during the 2015 16 provided preliminary findings on the key financial year, a full effectiveness review will be conducted later in 2016 following completion financial reporting judgements to the Audit Committee in February 2016. of its first full audit cycle.
The Committee considers the effectiveness of the auditor on an a number of site visits were completed across ongoing basis during the year.
Deloitte contribute a further independent perspective on the UK & ROI and International operations, certain aspects of the Companys financial control systems arising from its work, and report including 75 stores visited in the UK for the both to the Board and the Audit Committee.
purpose of either inventory count or store control assessments, seven distribution The process for approving all non-audit work provided by our auditor is overseen by the centres inthe UK and audit partner attendance at each of the international Committee in order to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the auditor.
Prior businesses during the course of the year.
toapproval, consideration is given to whether it is in the interests of the Company that the services are purchased from Deloitte rather than another supplier.
Where Deloitte have been In addition, the Company has worked closely chosen, this is as a result of their detailed knowledge of our business and understanding of with Deloitte to consider key accounting our industry as well as demonstrating that they have the necessary expertise and capability matters as they arose throughout the year.
to undertake the work cost effectively.
In advance of new EU regulations, the non-audit fees and independence of our auditor Key elements of the risk management process The risk management process facilitates aresubject to ongoing review in light ofthe70% cap that will apply.
A new non-audit services theidentification of risks through workshops policy was approved this year, reducingthreshold limits to require any proposed non-audit andinterviews with business leaders.
A risk work with fees over 100,000 tobe approved by the Audit Committee Chairman and all that can seriously affect the performance, non-audit fees to be reported to the Audit Committee.
future prospects or reputation of the Group istermed a principal risk and they are aligned to the Groups priorities.
Risks are maintained During the year, Deloitte received 6.5m in fees for work relating to the auditservices in Group or business unit risk registers.
they provide to the Group, including audit-related assurance work.
Non-audit related work undertaken by Deloitte amounted to fees of 10m this year, which amounts to 61% of the Risks are assessed to determine the potential total fees paid to them.
Fees paid to Deloitte are set out in Note 3 of the financial statements, impact and likelihood of occurrence, after taking but details of significant non-audit work undertaken are set out below: into account key controls and mitigating factors.
Additional mitigating actions are identified and agreed with relevant business owners.
Nature ofservice Safeguards to preserve independence Level of fees Risks are managed at the Group or within the Retail Advisory team separate to the audit team.
Decision-making accountability remained 4,625k business unit on an ongoing basis with follow-up consultancy with management.
by GAA throughout the year.
At the Group level each principal risk has an Executive Owner.
Forensic Advisory team separate to the audit team.
Careful consideration given to scope of 2,288k services services to ensure potential self-advocacy management threats were mitigated.
The CEO has overall accountability for the control and management of risk.
The Board has overall Tax advisory All tax teams separate to the audit team.
All tax services will be transitioned toanew 1,144k responsibility for risk management.
The principal compliance provider prior to the new EU Regulations coming into force.
risks are detailed on page 25, showing the risk Pension Advisory team separate to the audit team.
Careful consideration given to scopeof 612k movement and examples of relevant key advisory services to ensure potential management threat to independence wasmitigated.
The level of non-audit fees in the financial year 2015 16 reflects the transition to Deloitte asexternal auditor during the year and completion of certain key activities that were inprogress.
Steps are being taken to reduce the level of non-audit fees significantly in the financial year 2016 17.
Deloitte previously acted as advisors to the Group on remuneration, until new advisors were appointed following the selection of Deloitte as external auditor.
Thefigures above therefore include 133k of remuneration advisory fees incurred prior tothetransition of these services to our new providers.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 47
