Notes to the Parent Company financial statements Note 1 Authorisation of financial statements and Impairment of investments The Company has determined its investment in each entity as a separate statement of compliance with FRS 101 cash-generating unit for impairment testing.
Where there are indicators of impairment, the Company performs an impairment test.
Recoverable The Parent Company financial statements for the year ended 27 February 2016 amounts for cash-generating units are based on the higher of value in use were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 April 2016 and the balance sheet and fair value less costs of disposal.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow was signed on the Boards behalf by Alan Stewart and Dave Lewis.
projections generally over five years using data from the Companys latest internal forecasts, and extrapolated beyond five years using estimated These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting long-term growth rates.
These calculations require the use of estimates as Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The Company meets the set out in Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements of Tesco PLC.
Fair definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100, Application of Financial Reporting value is determined by independent, professional valuer where appropriate.
Requirements as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Foreign currencies The Companys financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, its functional Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at currency, generally rounded to the nearest million.
the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out in Note 2. are retranslated to the functional currency at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for certain financial instruments and share-based payments that have been measured at fair value.
Share-based payments The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant date using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo model.
The resulting cost is Note 2 Accounting policies charged to the Income Statement over the vesting period.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
Where Basis of preparation of financial statements the Company awards shares or options to employees of subsidiary entities, The Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance this is treated as a capital contribution.
with Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
FRS 101 sets out a reduced Financial instruments disclosure framework for a qualifying entity as defined in the standard which Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Companys addresses the financial reporting requirements and disclosure exemptions in the Balance Sheet when the Company becomes party to the contractual individual financial statements of qualifying entities that otherwise apply the provisions of the instrument.
recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of EU-adopted IFRS.
Receivables These are the first financial statements of the Company prepared in Receivables are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently at accordance with FRS 101.
The Companys date of transition to FRS 101 amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision is 22 February 2014.
The Company has notified its shareholders in writing for impairment.
about, and they do not object to, the use of the disclosure exemptions used by the Company in these financial statements.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the FRS 101 sets out amendments to EU-adopted IFRS that are necessary to substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument achieve compliance with the Act and related Regulations.
The prior year is any contract that gives a residual interest in the assets of the Company after financial statements were re-stated for material adjustments on adoption deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are of FRS 101 in the current year.
For more information see Note 16. recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 27 February 2016 prior Interest-bearing borrowings financial year 53 weeks to 28 February 2015.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any differences disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to business between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Company Income combinations, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and related Payables party transactions.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the Payables are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently at amortised consolidated financial statements of Tesco PLC.
cost using the effective interest rate method.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared on a going Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting concern basis as set out in Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to of Tesco PLC.
foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operating, financing and investing activities.
The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under instruments for trading purpose: however if derivatives do not qualify for Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented an Income hedge accounting they are accounted for as such.
Statement or a Statement of Comprehensive Income for the Company alone.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies is set out below.
on re-measurement are immediately recognised in the Company Income Statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of Short-term investments any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship Short-term investments are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently and the items being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the at amortised cost.
All income from these investments is included in the Income Company is required to document from inception, the relationship between Statement as interest receivable and similar income.
the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures The Company is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at cost less, where of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, appropriate, provisions for impairment.
which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is performed at each reporting date to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one year from the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
144 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
