SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc Alliance Trust Savings Market Purchases Alliance Trust provide and administer a range of selfselect The shares of TR Property Investment Trust plc are listed investment plans, including tax-advantaged ISAs and SIPPs and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Investors may Self-Invested Pension Plans and also Investment Plans purchase shares through their stockbroker, bank or other and First Steps, an Investment Plan for Children.
information Alliance Trust can be contacted on 01382 573 737, or visit www.
Holding shares in Certificated Form Investors may hold their investment in certificated form.
Investors in TR Property through the ATS Investment Plan Our registrars, Computershare operate a dealing service and ISA receive all shareholder communications.
A voting which enables investors to buy and sell shares quickly instruction form is provided to facilitate voting at general and easily online without a broker or the need to open meetings of the Company.
Alternatively the Investor Centre allows investors to manage portfolios quickly and securely, F&C Asset Management Limited F&C update details and view balances without annual charges.
F&C offer a number of Private Investor Plans, Investment Further details are available by contacting Computershare Trust and Junior ISAs and Childrens Investment Plans.
Investments can be made as lump sums or through regular savings.
For more information see inside the back TR Property Investment Trust plc now offers shareholders cover.
F&C can be contacted on 0800 136 420, or visit the opportunity to purchase further shares in the www.
company through the Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP through the registrar, Computershare.
Please remember that the value of your investments and Shareholders can obtain further information on the DRIP any income from them may go down as well as up.
Past through their secure website www.
co. uk, performance is not a guide to future performance.
Please may not get back the amount that you invest.
If you are note that to gain access to your details or register for the in any doubt as to the suitability of a plan or any DRIP on the Computershare site you will need the holder investment available within a plan, please take reference number stated on the top left hand corner of professional advice.
Saving Schemes and ISAs transferred from Saving Schemes, ISAs and other plans BNP Paribas A number of banks and wealth management organisations In 2012 BNP Paribas closed down the part of their business provide Savings Schemes and ISAs through which UK that operated Savings Schemes and ISAs.
Investors were clients can invest in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
given the choice of transferring their schemes to Alliance Trust Savings ATS or to a provider of their own choice, ISA and savings scheme providers do charge dealing and or to close their accounts and sell the holdings.
other fees for operating the accounts, and investors should read the Terms and Conditions provided by these If investors did not respond to the letters from BNP companies and ensure that the charges best suit their Paribas, their accounts were transferred to ATS.
Most schemes carry annual charges but these vary between provider and product.
Any questions regarding accounts transferred to ATS Where dealing charges apply, in some cases these are should be directed to ATS on 01382 573 737. applied as a percentage of funds invested and others as a flat charge.
The optimum way to hold the shares will be different for each investor depending upon the frequency and size of investments to be made.
Details are given below of two providers offering shares in TR Property Investment Trust, but there are many other options.
TR Property Investment Trust 97 Investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc continued Share Fraud and boiler room scams Shareholders in a number of Investment Trusts have been approached as part of a share fraud where they are informed of an opportunity to sell their shares as the company is subject to a takeover bid.
This is not true and is an attempt to defraud shareholders.
The share fraud also seeks payment of a commission by shareholders to the parties carrying out the fraud.
Shareholders should remain alert to this type of scam and treat with suspicion any contact by telephone offering an attractive investment opportunity, such as a premium price for your shares, or an attempt to convince you that payment is required in order to release a settlement for your shares.
These frauds may also offer to sell your shares in companies which have little or no value or may offer you bonus shares.
These so called boiler room scams can also involve an attempt to obtain your personal and or banking information with which to commit identity fraud.
The caller may be friendly and reassuring or they may take a more urgent tone, encouraging you to act quickly otherwise you could lose money or miss out on a deal.
If you have been contacted by an unauthorised firm regarding your shares the FCA would like to hear from you.
You can report an unauthorised firm using the FCA helpline on 0800 111 6768 or by visiting their website, which also has other useful information, at www.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Please be advised that the Board or the Manager would never make unsolicited telephone calls of such a nature to shareholders.
98 TR Property Investment Trust SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
