Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 have been prepared on a going concern basis, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union and as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP, Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts, to the extent that it is consistent with IFRS.
The Group and Company financial statements are expressed in Sterling, which is their functional and presentational currency.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires the exercise of judgement, both in application of accounting policies, which are set out below, and in the selection of assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
Such judgements are discussed further in section f of this note.
a Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries to 31 March 2016.
All the subsidiaries of the Company have been consolidated in these financial statements.
In accordance with IFRS10 the Company has been designated as an investment entity on the basis that: It obtains funds from investors and provides those investors with investment management services: It commits to its investors that its business purpose is to invest solely for returns from capital appreciation and investment income: and It measures and evaluates performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
Each of the subsidiaries of the Company was established for the sole purpose of operating or supporting the investment operations of the Company including raising additional financing, and is not itself an investment entity.
IFRS 10 sets out that in the case of controlled entities that support the investment activity of the investment entity, those entities should be consolidated rather than presented as investments at fair value.
Accordingly the Company has consolidated the results and financial positions of those subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Company obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising therefrom, are eliminated.
This is consistent with the presentation in previous years.
b Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Where the Group has elected to receive these dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Differences between the value of shares received and the cash dividend foregone are recognised in the capital returns of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The fixed returns on debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on each such security.
Interest receivable from cash and short term deposits is accrued to the end of the year.
Stock lending income is recognised on an accruals basis.
c Expenses All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
An analysis of retained earnings broken down into revenue and capital items is given in note 16.
In arriving at this breakdown, expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment: Expenses are presented as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated: One quar ter of the base management fee is charged to revenue, with three quarters allocated to capital return to reflect the Boards expectations of long term investment returns.
All performance fees are charged to capital return: 64 TR Property Investment Trust FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
