Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2 and 3: Accounts, Resolution 12: Disapplication of statutory Directors Remuneration Report and pre-emption rights Dividend This resolution would give the directors the authority to allot shares or sell any shares which the Company elects These are the resolutions which deal with the to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them to presentation of the audited accounts, the approval of the existing shareholders in proportion to their existing Directors Remuneration Report and the declaration of the shareholdings.
The vote to approve the remuneration report is advisory only and will not require the Company This authority would be limited to allotments or sales in to alter any arrangements detailed in the report should connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders the resolution not be passed.
of other equity securities if required by the rights of those shares or as the board otherwise considers necessary, or Resolutions 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8: Re-election of otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of directors 3,968,762.
This aggregate nominal amount represents 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company as These resolutions deal with the re-election of Simon at 9 June 2016, the latest practicable date prior to Marrison, David Watson, Hugh Seaborn, Suzie Procter and publication of this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate John Glen.
In accordance with the UK Corporate nominal amount, the directors confirm their intention to Governance Code, all directors will retire on an annual follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups basis and have confirmed that they will offer themselves Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of for re-election.
authorities within a rolling 3-year period where the A performance evaluation has been completed and your Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should Board has determined that each of the directors not take place without prior consultation with continues to be effective and demonstrates their shareholders.
The authority will expire at the earlier of close of business on 26 October 2017 and the conclusion of the annual Resolutions 9 and 10: Auditors general meeting of the Company held in 2017.
These deal with the appointment of the auditors, KPMG LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to determine Resolution 13: Authority to make Market their remuneration.
Purchases of the Companys Ordinary shares Resolution 11: Allotment of share capital At the AGM held on 21 July 2015, a special resolution Our Board considers it appropriate that an authority be was proposed and passed, giving the directors authority, granted to allot shares in the capital of the Company up until the conclusion of the AGM in 2016, to make market to a maximum nominal amount of 26,193,830 purchases of the Companys own issued shares up to a representing approximately 33% of the Companys maximum of 14.99% of the issued share capital.
issued share capital as at 9 June 2016, being the latest practical date prior to publication.
As at the date of this Your Board is proposing that they should be given notice the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
renewed authority to purchase Ordinary shares in the market.
Your Board believes that to make such purchases The directors have no present intention of exercising this in the market at appropriate times and prices is a suitable authority and would only expect to use the authority if method of enhancing shareholder value.
The Company shares could be issued at, or at a premium to, the NAV would, within guidelines set from time to time by the per share.
Board, make either a single purchase or a series of This authority will expire at the earlier of close of business purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with on 26 October 2017 and the conclusion of the annual the aim of maximising the benefits to shareholders.
general meeting of the Company to be held in 2017.
92 TR Property Investment Trust NOTICE OF AGM NOTICE OF AGM Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing Recommendation Net Asset Value per share, this will enhance the Net Asset Your Board believes that the resolutions contained in this Value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests intended that purchases would only be made at prices of the Company and shareholders as a whole and below Net Asset Value.
Your Board considers that it will be recommends that you vote in favour of them as your most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to Directors intend to do in respect of their beneficial be able to make such purchases as and when it considers shareholdings.
the timing to be favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 enable companies in the United Kingdom to hold in treasury any of their own shares they have purchased with a view to possible resale at a future date, rather than cancelling them.
If the Company does re-purchase any of its shares, the directors do not currently intend to hold any of the shares re-purchased in treasury.
The shares so re-purchased will continue to be cancelled.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share.
It shall not be more than the higher of: i 1 05% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy shares concerned: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary share being the nominal value.
The Listing Rules also limit a listed company to purchases of shares representing up to 15% of its issued share capital in the market pursuant to a general authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its authority to make such purchases to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the AGM: this is equivalent to 47,593,396 Ordinary shares of 25p each nominal value 11,898,348 at 13 June 2016, the date of the Notice of the AGM.
The authority will last until the AGM of the Company to be held in 2017.
