FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Related party transactions disclosures Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Company for each of the relevant categories specified in IAS 24: Related Party Disclosures is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 and 49.
Directors transactions Transactions in shares by directors are considered to be a related party transaction due to the nature of their role as directors.
Movements in directors shareholdings are disclosed within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 49.
Dividends totalling 6,000 2015: 7,000 were paid in the year in respect of shares held by the Companys directors.
Investment Managers fees During the year ended 31 March 2016 Thames River Capital charged management fees totalling 4,917,000 2015: 4,979,000 to the Group in the normal course of business.
The balance of management fees outstanding at 31 March 2016 was 75,000 2015: 186,000.
In addition a performance fee of 3,354,000 was outstanding at 31 March 2016 2015: 7,745,000.
23 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD In accordance with the AIFMD, information in relation to the Companys leverage and remuneration of the Companys AIFM, F&C Investment Business Limited, is required to be made available to investors.
Detailed regulatory disclosures including those on the AIFMs remuneration policy and costs are available on the F&C website or from F&C on request.
Leverage Under the AIFM Directive, it is necessary for AIFs to disclose their leverage in accordance with prescribed calculations.
Although leverage is often used as another term for gearing, under the AIFMD it leverage is specifically defined.
Two types of leverage calculations are defined: the gross and commitment methods.
These methods summarily express leverage as a ratio of the exposure of the AIF against its net asset value.
Exposure typically includes debt, the value of any physical properties subject to mortgage, nonsterling currency, equity or currency hedging at absolute national values even those held purely for risk reduction purposes, such as forward foreign exchange contracts held for currency hedging and derivative exposure converted into the equivalent underlying positions.
The commitment method nets off derivative instruments, while the gross method aggregates them.
The table below sets out the current maximum permitted limit and the actual level of leverage for the Company as at 31 March 2016: Leverage exposure Gross method Commitment method Maximum permitted limit 200% 200% Actual 133% 134% The leverage limits are set by the AIFM and approved by the Board and are in line with the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
This should not be confused with the gearing set out in the Financial Highlights which is calculated under the traditional method set out by the Association of Investment Companies.
The AIFM is also required to comply with the gearing parameters set by the Board in relation to borrowings.
