Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Other shareholder information FINANCIAL DIARY SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS Ex-dividend date 13 April 2017 Company Website Record date 18 April 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual and Interim Reports, results announcements and presentations are available on the Investor Trading statement 27 April 2017 Relations section of our website at www.
Annual General Meeting 24 May 2017 The website also carries a range of information about the Group and its principal brands, products and services which can be Payment of final dividend 26 May 2017 accessed via the Our Businesses section.
Announcement of 2017 interim results 2 August 2017 Annual Report Trading statement 19 October 2017 The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 is published Announcement of 2017 annual results 28 February 2018 on our website at www.
co. uk investor-relations and a hard copy has been posted to shareholders who have These are provisonal dates.
The Travis Perkins financial calendar can be found online requested it in paper copy format.
All other shareholders have under the Investor Relations section of our website: www.
co. uk been notified of its availability on the website, either in writing or ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM by email.
The AGM will be held on 24 May 2017 at 12.00 noon A paper copy is available by writing to the Company Secretary atNorthampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, atthe Companys registered office: Lodge Way House, LodgeWay, WeedonRoad, Northampton NN5 5BG.
The notice and proxy Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG or you can email your card for the meeting is enclosed with this report.
A hot luncheon request to cosec@travisperkins.
will be served following the AGM.
Electronic Shareholder Communications REGISTRARS The Company prefers that you receive your shareholder communications electronically.
This is a much faster, For Information about shareholdings, dividends and to  and cost effective way to communicate report changes to personal details please contact the with you.
If you have received a hard copy of this report, or Companysregistrars: notification of its availability by post and would like to receive fully Capita Asset Services, electronic communication, please register your preference on the The Registry, shareholder portal at www.
com and follow 34 Beckenham Road, the instructions.
If you have any Beckenham, queries please telephone Capita Asset Services on the number Kent, provided opposite.
BR3 4TU SHAREHOLDER SERVICES Email: shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk The Companys registrars, Capita Asset Services Capita, Telephone: 0371 664 0300 provide a number of other services that, as a shareholder, Calls will be charged at the standard geographic rate and will mightbe useful to you: vary by provider.
Calls from outside the United Kingdom will be Duplicate Share Register Accounts charged at the applicable international rate: lines are open 9am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may be that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on Please inform Capita if there are any changes to your address, our register of members.
If that is not your intention you may bank details or any other account information.
You can view and wish to consider merging the accounts into one single entry.
manage your shareholder account online via the shareholder Pleasecontact Capita who will be pleased to help you.
You will need to register to use this service and to do so you will require your unique Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP investor code IVC, which can be found on your share certificate, This is a scheme which allows you to use your dividends proxy card or dividend confirmation.
to buy further shares in Travis Perkins.
For any shareholders It is more secure to have your dividends paid directly who wish to reinvest dividend payments in the Company, a into your bank account than by cheque.
If you do not already facility is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd in conjunction with have your dividends paid directly into your account and would Capita Asset Services.
Full details are available from Capita on like to do so, you can do this on the shareholder portal at 0371664 0381 calls are charged at the standard geographic www.
com or you can contact Capita and rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom they will send you the relevant form to complete.
will be charged at the applicable international rate : lines are open from 9am to 5.30pm Monday Friday.
com 186 Shareholder Information Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Shareholder Information Alternatively, you can sign up for this service on the shareholder SHARE FRAUD WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS portal or visit www.
com by clicking on In recent years, share fraud has been increasing, with reinvest your dividends and following the on screen instructions.
shareholders receiving unsolicited correspondence concerning Please note that this facility is only available to shareholders with investment matters.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure an address in the UK or EEA.
The value of shares and income tactics to lure investors into scams: offering to sell shares that from them can fall as well as rise and you may not recover the turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at full amount of money you invested.
an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
Sometimes these individuals imply that they represent Travis Perkins, but Overseas Shareholders in fact they have no connection with the Company and have no Capita has partnered with Deutsche Bank to provide you with authority to claim or imply that they are.
a service that will convert your sterling dividends into your If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the Financial local currency at a competitive rate.
You can choose to receive Conduct Authority using the share fraud reporting form at payment directly into your local bank account, or alternatively, www.
uk scams, where you can also find out more about you can be sent a currency draft.
You can sign up for this service on the share portal by clicking on manage your account and Change your dividend details and following the on screen instructions or by contacting the Customer Support Centre.
Further details are available from Capita Asset Services: by telephone: 0371 664 0300 calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 9am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
SHARE DEALING SERVICES There are two share dealing services that you may wish to use to buy or sell shares in Travis Perkins but alternatively there are many other options that you could use : Capita offers an on-line and telephone share dealing service which is available by logging on to www.
com or telephoning 0371 664 0445 calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate: lines are open 8am to 4.30pm, Monday - Friday.
These services are only available to private shareholders resident in the EEA, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.
Further details including costs are available at www.
com 187 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc, Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton.
com The paper and board used in the production of this publication are all FSC accredited.
The printing process used in the production of this publication was carbon neutral and used vegetable based inks.
