Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 95 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 1.
General information b Basis of consolidation TP ICAP plc formerly Tullett Prebon plc is a company incorporated in The Groups Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the England and Wales under the Companies Act.
The address of the Financial Statements of the Company and entities controlled by registered office is given on page 143.
The nature of the Groups the Company made up to 31 December each year.
Under IFRS 10 operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Consolidated Financial Statements, control is achieved where the Report on pages 78 to 80 and in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 40.
Company exercises power over anentity, is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the 2.
Basis of preparation ability to use its power to affect the returns from the entity.
a Basis of accounting The Groups consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the IFRSs adopted by the European Union and comply with Article 4 effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, of the EU IAS Regulation.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies The Financial Statements are presented in Pounds sterling because used into line with those used by the Group.
All inter-company that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated the Group operates and are rounded to the nearest hundred on consolidation.
thousand expressed as millions to one decimal place m, except where otherwise indicated.
The significant accounting policies are Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately set out in Note 3. from the Groups equity therein.
Those interests of non-controlling shareholders that are present ownership interests entitling their The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical holders to a proportionate share of net assets upon liquidation cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments may initially be measured at fair value or at the non-controlling held at fair values at the end of each reporting period, as explained interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees in the accounting policies.
Historical cost is generally based identifiable net assets.
Other non-controlling interests are initially on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods measured at fair value.
The choice of measurement is made on an and services.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that is attributed to non-controlling interests even if thisresults in the price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation non-controlling interest having a deficit balance.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a if market participants would take those characteristics into account loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Fair amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests value for measurement and or disclosure purposes in these are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the Consolidated Financial Statements is determined on such a basis, subsidiaries.
Any differences between the amount by which the except for share-based payment transactions that are within the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but and attributed to the owners of the Company.
are not fair value, such as net realisable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of For financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are the fair value of theconsideration received and the fair value of any categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which inputs retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets, to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance including goodwill, less liabilities of the subsidiary and any nonof the inputs to the fairvalue measurement in its entirety, which are controlling interests.
Amounts previously recognised in other described as follows: comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or Level 1 inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets liabilities are disposed of.
The fair value of any investment retained for identical assets or liabilities: in the former subsidiary at the date when control was lost is regarded Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting within Level1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement directly i. e. asprices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
com 96 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 2.
Basis of preparation continued e Adoption of new and revised Standards c Presentation of the Income Statement The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation of its been adopted in the current year although their adoption has not Consolidated Income Statement.
The columnar format enables the had any significant impact on the Financial Statements: Group to continue its practice of aiding the understanding of its Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements results by presenting its underlying profit.
This is the profit measure regarding disclosures: used to calculate underlying EPS Note 11 and is considered to be Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 Cycle : the most appropriate as it better reflects the Groups underlying Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 regarding the clarification earnings.
Underlying profit is reconciled to profit before tax on the of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation: and face of the Consolidated Income Statement, which also includes Amendments to IFRS 11 regarding the accounting for acquisition acquisition, disposal and integration costs and exceptional items.
of interests in Joint Operations.
The column acquisition, disposal and integration costs includes: any At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the gains, losses or other associated costs on the full or partial disposal following EU endorsed Standards and Interpretations were in issue of investments, associates, joint ventures or subsidiaries and costs but not yet effective.
The Group has not applied these Standards associated with a business combination that do not constitute or Interpretations in the preparation of these Financial Statements: fees relating to the arrangement of financing: amortisation or impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation: any IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: and remeasurement after initial recognition of contingent consideration IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
which has been classified as a liability: and any gains or losses on the revaluation of previous interests.
The column may also include items The adoption of IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and such as gains or losses on the settlement of pre-existing relationships disclosures offinancial instruments but it is not practicable to provide with acquired businesses and the remeasurement of liabilities that a complete estimate of its effect until a detailed review has been are above the value of indemnification.
Acquisition related completed prior to implementation.
The adoption of IFRS 15 may integration costs include costs associated with exit or disposal have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures.
activities, which do not meet the criteria of discontinued operations, including costs for employee and lease terminations, or other exit The following Standards and Interpretations have not been endorsed activities.
Additionally, these costs include expenses directly related bytheEU and have not been applied in the preparation of these to integrating and reorganising acquired businesses and include FinancialStatements: items such as employee retention costs, recruiting costs, certain moving costs, certain duplicative costs during integration and asset IFRS 16 Leases: impairments.
Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes regarding the recognition ofdeferred tax assets for unrealised losses: Items which are of a non-routine nature and material, when Amendments to IAS 7 Cash flow statements regarding disclosures: considering both size and nature, are disclosed separately to Clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts give a clearer presentation of the Groups results.
These are with Customers: shown as exceptional items on the face of the Consolidated Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payment transactions Income Statement.
regarding the classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions: d Going concern Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle : and The Directors have, at the time of approving the Financial IFRIC Interpretation 22 relating to foreign currency transactions Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate and advance consideration.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of The adoption of IFRS 16 will change how leases are recognised and accounting in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further detail is will impact the Groups reported assets, liabilities, income statement contained in the going concern section and viability statement and cash flows.
Furthermore, extensive disclosures will be required included in the Directors Report on pages 78 to 80. by IFRS 16.
It is not practicable to provide a complete estimate of its effect until a detailed review has been completed prior to implementation.
The Directors do not expect the adoption of the other Standards and Interpretations will have a material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group in future periods.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 97 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups a Income recognition previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to Revenue, which excludes sales taxes, includes brokerage including fair value at the acquisition date and any resulting gain or loss commissions, fees earned and subscriptions for information sales.
is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in Fee income is recognised when the related services are completed the acquiree prior to the acquisition that have previously been and the income is considered receivable.
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate ifthat interest Revenue comprises: was disposed of.
i Name Passing brokerage, where counterparties to a transaction The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities settle directly with each other.
Revenue for the service of that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are matching buyers and sellers of financial instruments is stated net recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: of sales taxes, rebates and discounts and is recognised in full on trade date: deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised and measured ii Matched Principal brokerage revenue, being the net proceeds in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes: from a commitment to simultaneously buy and sell financial liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements instruments with counterparties, is recognised on trade date: are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 19 iii Executing Broker brokerage, where the Group executes Employee Benefits: transactions on certain regulated exchanges and then gives-up acquiree share-based payment awards replaced by Group the trade to the relevant client, or its clearing member.
Revenue awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based for the service of matching buyers and sellers of financial Payments: and instruments is stated net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts assets or disposal groups that are classified for sale are measured and is recognised in full on trade date: and in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and iv Fees earned from the sales of price information from financial Discontinued Operations.
and commodity markets to third parties is recognised on an If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by accruals basis to match the provision of the service.
the end of the reporting period in which the business combination Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the occurs, provisional amounts are reported.
Those provisional amounts principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups or liabilities recognised, to reflect the facts and circumstances that right to receive the payment is established.
existed as at the acquisition date.
b Business combinations Non-controlling interests in the acquired entity are initially measured Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of c Investment in associates exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control exercise significant influence.
Significant influence is the power to of the acquiree.
Acquisition costs are recognised inprofit or loss participate in the financial and operating decisions of the investee as incurred.
but is not control or joint control over these policies.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration in these Financial Statements using the equity method of arrangement, measured atits acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent accounting except when classified as held for sale.
Investments changes in such fair values areadjusted against the cost of the in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments.
by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual to the date the Group obtains complete information about the facts investments.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is interest in those associates are recognised only to the extent that subject to a maximum of one year.
All subsequent changes in the fair the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made value of contingent consideration classified as an asset ora liability payments on behalf of the associate.
are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the not recognised.
fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any discount in the cost of acquisition below the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the year of acquisition.
com 98 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the c Investment in associates continued attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, ofthe profit or loss on disposal.
profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest f Intangible assets in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of Software and software development costs impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups provision is made for impairment.
software development is recognised at cost only if all of the following conditions aremet: d Interests in joint arrangements A joint arrangement is a contractual arrangement whereby the an asset is created that can be identified: Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that it is probable that the asset created will generate future is subject to joint control.
economic benefits: and the development costs of the asset can be measured reliably.
Joint ventures are joint arrangements which involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each party has rights Where the above conditions are not met, costs are expensed to the net assets of the arrangement.
The Group reports its as incurred.
interests in joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at Acquired separately or from a business combination cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and of the net assets of the joint venture, less any impairment in the intangible assets acquired in a business acquisition are capitalised value of individual investments.
Lossesof the joint venture in at fair value at the date of acquisition.
The useful lives of these excess of the Groups interest in those joint ventures are recognised intangible assets are assessed tobe either finite or indefinite.
only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive Amortisation charged on assets with a finiteuseful life is taken obligations or made payments under the terms of thejoint venture.
to the income statement through administrative expenses.
e Goodwill Other than software development costs, intangible assets created Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the within thebusiness are not capitalised and expenditure is charged to cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the income statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or associate atthe date of acquisition.
Goodwill is Intangible assets are amortised over their finite useful lives generally initially recognised at cost and is subsequently measured at cost on astraight-line basis, as follows: less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS hasbeen Software: retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts at that date.
Purchased or developed up to 5 years Software licences over the period of the licence Goodwill recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment loss is recognised as an expense Acquisition intangibles: immediately and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of Brand Trademarks up to 5 years impairment testing goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups Customer relationships 2 to 20 years cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of Other intangibles over the period of the contract the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the may not berecoverable.
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income asset in the unit.
statement when the asset is derecognised.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture is included within the carrying value of the associate or the joint venture.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented separately in the balance sheet.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 99 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued i Broker contract payments g Property, plant and equipment Payments made to brokers under employment contracts which are Freehold land is stated at cost.
Buildings, furniture, fixtures, in advance of the expected economic benefit due to the Group are equipment and motor vehicles are stated at cost less accumulated accounted for as prepayments and included within trade and other depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Payments made in advance are subject to repayment conditions during the contract period and the prepayment is Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates amortised over the shorter of the contract term and the period calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value based the payment remains recoverable.
Amounts that are irrecoverable, on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition, of each asset on a or become irrecoverable, are written off immediately.
straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Payments made in arrears are accrued and are included within trade Furniture, fixtures, equipment and other payables.
and motor vehicles 3 to 10 years Short and long leasehold j Financial assets and financial liabilities land and buildings period of the lease Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Freehold land infinite Groups balance sheet when the Group has become a party Freehold buildings 50 years to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected Financial instruments are derecognised when all derecognition useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the criteria ofIAS39 are met and the Group no longer controls the term of the relevant lease.
contractual rights thatcomprise the financial instrument.
This is normally the case when the instrument is sold, or all of the cash flows The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is attributable to the instrument are passed through to an independent determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the third party.
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Financial assets are classified on initial recognition as available-forh Impairment of tangible and intangible assets sale, loans and receivables or at fair value through profit or loss excluding goodwill FVTPL.
Financial liabilities are classified on initial recognition as At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts either atfair value through profit or loss FVTPL or as other of its tangible and intangible assets with finite lives to determine financial liabilities.
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an Available-for-sale impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount Certain of the Groups investments are classified as available-for-sale of the asset is estimated in order todetermine the extent of the financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows at fairvalue and changes therein, other than impairment losses and that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the foreign exchange gains and losses on available-for-sale monetary recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset items, are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for For equity financial assets, where the fair value cannot be reliably impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the measured, the assets are held at cost less any provision for asset maybe impaired.
These assets are generally expected to be held for the Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less any cost to sell long term and are included in non-current assets.
Assets such as and valuein use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash holdings in exchanges, cash related instruments and long term equity flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount investments that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures are rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value classified as available-for-sale.
When an investment is derecognised, of money and the risks specific to the asset.
the cumulative gain or loss in other comprehensive income is transferred to profit or loss.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is Loans and receivables estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial instruments that of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable have fixed or determinable payments that are not listed in an active amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an expense market.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased is recognised using the effective interest rate, except for short term to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount Settlement balances, trade receivables, loans and other receivables that would have been determined had no impairment loss been are classified as loans and receivables.
recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
com 100 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 Fair value hedges 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated j Financial assets and financial liabilities continued and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss The Group acts as an intermediary between its customers for immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the collateralised stock lending transactions.
Such trades are complete hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The changes only when both the collateral and stock for each side of the in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the changes in transaction are returned.
The gross amounts of collateral due to and the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised receivable are disclosed in the balance sheet as deposits paid for in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
securities borrowed and deposits received for securities loaned.
Fair value through profit or loss Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the Financial assets and liabilities can be designated at fair value hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, through profit or loss where they meet specific criteria set out in IAS terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or where The adjustment to thecarrying amount of the hedged item arising assets orliabilities are held for trading.
Subsequent changes in fair from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
value are recognised directly in the income statement.
Net investment hedges Other financial liabilities The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially are designated and qualify as net investment hedges is recognised in measured at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are subsequently the hedging and translation reserve in other comprehensive income.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
immediately in profit or loss, and is included in financial income or financial expense respectively.
Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet Gains and losses deferred in the hedging and translation reserve date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence are recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial m Settlement balances recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of Certain Group companies engage in Matched Principal brokerage the investment have been impacted.
Impairment is recognised in the whereby securities are bought from one counterparty and income statement.
simultaneously sold to another counterparty.
Settlement of such k Derivative financial instruments transactions typically takes place within a few business days of Derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency contracts the transaction date according to the relevant market rules and and interest rate swaps, are entered into by the Group in order conventions.
The amounts due from and payable to counterparties to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency in respect of as yet unsettled Matched Principal transactions are fluctuations or as simultaneous back-to-back transactions with shown gross, except where a netting agreement, which is legally counterparties.
The Group does not use derivative financial enforceable at all times, exists and the asset and liability are either instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a n Derivative financial instrument balances arising from derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured business activities to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or The Group undertakes Matched Principal broking involving loss is recognised immediately unless the derivative is designated simultaneous back-to-back derivative transactions with and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing counterparties.
These transactions are classified as financial of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the instruments at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL and are hedge relationship.
shown gross, except where a netting agreement, which is legally enforceable at all times, exists and the asset and liability are either A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current settled net or simultaneously.
liability if theremaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within o Cash and cash equivalents 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits which may be current liabilities.
Cash equivalents comprise short term highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than three months l Hedge accounting from the date of acquisition.
For the purposes of the Consolidated Derivatives designated as hedges are either fair value hedges Cash Flow Statement, cashand cash equivalents consist of cash or hedges ofnet investments in foreign operations.
and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 101 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Exchange differences arising are classified as other comprehensive o Cash and cash equivalents continued income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such The Group holds money, and occasionally financial instruments, translation differences are recognised as income oras expense in on behalf of customers client monies in accordance with local the year in which the operation is disposed of.
Income and expense regulatory rules.
Since the Group is not beneficially entitled to these items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, unless amounts, they are excluded from the Consolidated Balance Sheet exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that year, in which case along with the corresponding liabilities to customers.
the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Restricted funds comprise cash held with a central counterparty s Taxation clearing house CCP, or a financial institution providing the Group The tax expense represents the sum of current tax payable with access to a CCP, and funds set aside for regulatory purposes, but arising in the year, movements in deferred tax and movements excluding client money.
The funds represent cash for which the Group in tax provisions.
The tax expense includes any interest and does not have immediate and direct access or for which regulatory penalties payable.
requirements restrict the use of the cash.
The current tax payable arising in the year is based on taxable profit p Interest bearing loans and borrowings for theyear using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, enacted bythe balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax being the consideration received net of issue costs associated payable in respect ofprior years.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are method in respect of temporary differences arising between measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the Financial Amortised cost is calculated taking into account any issue costs and Statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the any discounts or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets derecognised, as well as through the amortisation process.
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences q Provisions may be utilised.
Temporary differences are not recognised if they Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation, arise from goodwill or from initial recognition of other assets and legal or constructive, as a result of a past event where it is probable liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the tax profit nor that this will result in an outflow of economic benefits that can be the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, which has been notified except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the to affected parties.
temporary difference and itisprobable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
r Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply prepared inthe currency of the primary economic environment in when theasset or liability is settled or when the asset is realised.
which it operates, itsfunctional currency.
For the purpose of the Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial position except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to other of each Group company are expressed in Pounds sterling, which is comprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is the functional currency of the Company and the presentation also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.
t Leases In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are substantially allthe risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the recorded atthe rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair transactions.
Gains and losses arising from the settlement of these value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the transactions, and from the retranslation of monetary assets and minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability currency at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date, are recognised so as to achieve a constant rate of interest onthe remaining balance in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
denominated in currencies other than the functional currency thatare measured at historical cost or fair value are translated Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction or at the date estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and For the purpose of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
com 102 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued y Accounting estimates and judgements u Retirement benefit costs In the application of the Groups accounting policies, the Directors Defined contributions made to employees personal pension are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about plans are charged to the income statement as and when incurred.
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing the assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors benefits isdetermined using the projected unit credit method.
that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from Actuarial gains andlosses are recognised in full in the year in which these estimates.
They are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in other comprehensive income.
Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period an Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the estimate is revised.
Significant judgement and estimates are benefits have already vested, and is otherwise amortised on a necessary in relation to the following matters: straight-line basis overthe average period until the amended Identification and measurement of intangible assets arising benefits become vested.
on consolidation Accounting for business combinations requires the excess of the The amount recognised in the balance sheet represents the net of purchase price of acquisitions to be allocated to the identifiable the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for assets and liabilities of the acquired entity.
The Group makes actuarial gains and losses and past service cost, and the fair value of judgements and estimates in relation to the fair value allocation of plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the the purchase price and in selecting valuation techniques and setting unrecognised actuarial losses and past service cost, plus the present valuation assumptions to determine the acquisition date fair values value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to of the intangible assets that arise on consolidation and to estimate the plan.
the useful lives of these assets.
Note 30 provides details of the v Share-based payments acquisitions undertaken during the year.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a units to which these assets have been allocated.
The value in use straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups calculation requires estimation of future cash flows expected to arise estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
for the cash-generating unit, the selection of suitable discount rates and the estimation of future growth rates.
Note 13 describes the The fair value of share options issued is determined using assumptions used together with an analysis of the sensitivity to appropriate valuation models.
The expected life used in the models reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural Provisions considerations.
Provisions are established by the Group based on managements assessment of relevant information and advice available at The estimated fair value of shares granted is based on the share price the time of preparing the Financial Statements.
Outcomes are at grant date, reduced where shares do not qualify for dividends uncertain and dependent on future events.
Where outcomes differ during the vesting period.
Market-based performance conditions from managements expectations, differences from the amount for equity-settled payments are reflected in the initial fair value initially provided will impact profit or loss in the period the of the award.
Note 24 and Note 33 provide details of the Groups provisions and contingent liabilities.
w Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value Retirement benefit asset of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
An equity instrument The Groups retirement benefit asset is the net of its defined benefit is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the schemes assets and the related defined benefit obligation.
The Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
defined benefit obligation represents the schemes future liabilities, which are estimated using actuarial and other financial assumptions, x Treasury shares discounted to a current value using a discount rate set by reference Where share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount to market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The value of the of theconsideration paid, including directly attributable costs, net defined benefit obligation is sensitive to changes in the actuarial, of any tax effects, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
When financial and discount rate assumptions, changes towhich would treasury shares are sold or re-issued subsequently, the amount be reflected in other comprehensive income in the period the received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting change occurs.
Note 35 describes the assumptions used together surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to or from with an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 103 4.
Segmental analysis Products and services from which reportable segments derive their revenues The Group is organised by geographic reporting segments which are used for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segmental performance by Group management.
These are the Groups reportable segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Each geographic reportable segment derives revenue from Energy & Commodities, Interest Rate Derivatives, Fixed Income, Treasury Products, Equities, and Information Sales and Risk Management Services.
Information regarding the Groups operating segments is reported below: Analysis by geographical segment 2016 2015 m m Revenue EMEA 480.9 455.3 Americas 279.6 234.5 Asia Pacific 131.0 106.2 891.5 796.0 Operating profit EMEA 97.7 81.2 Americas 18.2 14.9 Asia Pacific 15.6 11.8 Underlying operating profit 131.5 107.9 Acquisition, disposal and integration costs Note 6 56.6 24.7 Exceptional items Note 6 1.6 38.7 Reported operating profit 73.3 121.9 Finance income 5.3 4.1 Finance costs 21.8 20.3 Profit before tax 56.8 105.7 Taxation 17.1 25.0 Profit after tax 39.7 80.7 Share of results of associates and joint ventures 4.0 2.6 Profit for the year 43.7 83.3 There are no inter-segment sales included in segment revenue.
TP ICAP plc is domiciled in the UK.
Revenue attributable to the UK amounted to 422.4m 2015: 399.7m and the total revenue from other countries was 469.1m 2015: 396.3m.
com 104 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 4.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 105 4.
Segmental analysis continued Analysis by product group 2016 2015 m m Revenue Energy & Commodities 245.3 204.3 Interest Rate Derivatives 143.6 135.3 Fixed Income 183.0 171.2 Treasury Products 194.1 185.0 Equities 57.3 46.3 Information Sales and Risk Management Services 68.2 53.9 891.5 796.0 5.
Other operating income Other operating income represents receipts such as rental income, royalties, insurance proceeds, settlements from competitors, business relocation grants and pension scheme settlement gain Note 35.
Costs associated with such items are included in administrative expenses.
Profit for the year The profit for the year has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2016 2015 m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 15 8.0 7.7 Amortisation of intangible assets Note 14 8.4 7.3 Amortisation of acquisition related intangible assets Note 13 1.4 1.2 Staff costs Note 7 589.4 546.4 Net foreign exchange gains losses 2.1 0.1 Auditors remuneration for audit services see below 3.6 2.3 Acquisition, disposal and integration costs comprise: 2016 2015 m m ICAP acquisition costs 16.8 12.1 ICAP integration costs 19.3 Other acquisition costs 0.3 0.5 Acquisition related share-based payment charge 16.3 10.5 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation 1.4 1.2 Loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings and associates 0.3 0.6 Adjustments to acquisition consideration Note 30 b 2.2 0.2 56.6 24.7 Finance costs Note 9 6.6 2.0 63.2 26.7 Taxation 5.3 3.0 57.9 23.7 www.
com 106 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 6.
Profit for the year continued ICAP integration costs incurred in the year can be analysed as follows: 2016 2015 m m Employee related costs 7.3 Premises and equipment 0.5 Other administrative costs 11.5 19.3 Exceptional items comprise: 2016 2015 m m Pension scheme settlement gain Note 35 3.6 Net credit relating to major legal actions 64.4 Charge relating to cost improvement programmes 5.2 25.7 1.6 38.7 Taxation 0.3 10.5 1.9 28.2 The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2016 2015 000 000 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 1,362 393 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation 2,234 1,882 Total audit fees 3,596 2,275 Audit related assurance services 283 237 Taxation compliance services 129 103 Other taxation advisory services 34 28 1 Corporate finance services 899 1,703 Other services 44 21 Total non-audit fees 1,389 2,092 Audit fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates in respect of associated pension schemes 18 13 Note: 1 Corporate finance services relate primarily to the acquisition of ICAP, 200,000 2015: 1,220,000 relating to due diligence services and 600,000 2015: 463,000 as reporting accountants.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 107 7.
Staff costs The average monthly number of full time equivalent employees and Directors of the Group was: 2016 2015 No.
EMEA 1,267 1,261 Americas 838 848 Asia Pacific 599 585 2,704 2,694 The aggregate employment costs of staff and Directors were: 2016 2015 m m Wages, salaries, bonuses and incentive payments 518.9 486.7 Social security costs 42.6 40.6 Defined contribution pension costs Note 35 c 7.2 7.1 Acquisition related share-based payment expense 16.3 10.5 Other share-based compensation expense 4.4 1.5 589.4 546.4 8.
Finance income 2016 2015 m m Interest receivable and similar income 2.1 1.8 Deemed interest arising on the defined benefit pension scheme surplus Note 35 b 3.2 2.3 5.3 4.1 9.
Finance costs Acquisition Underlying related Total m m m 2016 Interest and fees payable on bank facilities 3.9 3.3 7.2 Interest payable on Sterling Notes July 2016 5.1 5.1 Interest payable on Sterling Notes June 2019 4.2 4.2 Other interest payable 0.5 0.5 Amortisation of debt issue and bank facility costs 1.2 3.0 4.2 Total borrowing costs 14.9 6.3 21.2 Unwind of discounted liabilities Note 30 b 0.3 0.3 0.6 15.2 6.6 21.8 2015 Interest and fees payable on bank facilities 1.6 0.6 2.2 Interest payable on Sterling Notes July 2016 9.9 9.9 Interest payable on Sterling Notes June 2019 4.2 4.2 Other interest payable 0.4 0.4 Amortisation of debt issue and bank facility costs 1.8 1.1 2.9 Total borrowing costs 17.9 1.7 19.6 Unwind of discounted liabilities Note 30 b 0.4 0.3 0.7 18.3 2.0 20.3 Acquisition related items include 6.0m of fees and interest relating to the acquisition of ICAP that were incurred on facilities arranged in contemplation of the transaction, costs of 0.3m incurred on a planned refinancing of the Groups 141.1m Sterling Notes that was cancelled due to the acquisition, and 0.3m relating to unwinding the discount on PVM deferred consideration.
com 108 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 10.
Taxation 2016 2015 m m Current tax UK corporation tax 11.0 22.7 Overseas tax 5.5 4.2 Prior year UK corporation tax 0.3 0.4 Prior year overseas tax 0.4 1.6 16.4 24.9 Deferred tax Note 20 Current year 1.0 0.2 Prior year 0.3 0.1 0.7 0.1 Tax charge for the year 17.1 25.0 The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit in the income statement as follows: 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 56.8 105.7 Tax based on the UK corporation tax rate of 20% 2015: 20.25% 11.4 21.4 Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible 9.5 5.0 Tax effect of non-taxable income 0.1 0.4 Unrecognised timing differences 8.5 1.7 Prior year adjustments 0.4 2.1 Impact of overseas tax rates 4.8 3.0 Other 0.4 0.2 Tax charge for the year 17.1 25.0 The UK corporation tax rate for 2016 is 20% 2015: 20.25%, reflecting three months at 21% and nine months at 20%.
In addition to the income statement charge, the following current and deferred tax items have been included in other comprehensive income and equity: Recognised in other comprehensive Recognised income in equity Total m m m 2016 Current tax charge relating to: Exchange movement on net investment loans Deferred tax charge relating to: Increase in the defined benefit pension scheme surplus 2.0 2.0 Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments Tax charge on items taken directly to other comprehensive income and equity 2.0 2.0 2015 Current tax charge relating to: Exchange movement on net investment loans 0.4 0.4 Deferred tax charge relating to: Increase in the defined benefit pension scheme surplus 8.6 8.6 Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 0.1 0.1 Tax charge on items taken directly to other comprehensive income and equity 9.1 9.1 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 109 11.
Earnings per share 2016 2015 Basic underlying 42.5p 32.2p Diluted underlying 41.0p 31.5p Basic earnings per share 17.8p 34.0p Diluted earnings per share 17.2p 33.3p The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following number of shares: 2016 2015 No.
m 1 Basic weighted average shares 242.3 243.6 Contingently issuable shares 9.1 5.1 1 Diluted weighted average shares 251.4 248.7 Note: 1 The 310,314,296 shares issued to acquire ICAP at the end of December 2016 have a nil weighting when calculating the weighted average number of shares for 2016 because the shares were issued at the end of the year and none of the earnings related to the newly issued shares.
The earnings used in the calculation of underlying, basic and diluted earnings per share are set out below: 2016 2015 m m Earnings for the year 43.7 83.3 Non-controlling interests 0.5 0.4 Earnings 43.2 82.9 Acquisition, disposal and acquisition costs Note 6 63.2 26.7 Exceptional items Note 6 1.6 38.7 Tax on exceptional and acquisition related items 5.0 7.5 Underlying earnings 103.0 78.4 12.
Dividends 2016 2015 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 5.6p per share 13.5 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 11.25p per share 27.2 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 5.6p per share 13.6 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 11.25p per share 27.4 40.7 41.0 In respect of the current year, the Directors declared a second interim dividend of 11.25p per share amounting to 27.2m which was paid on 13 January 2017 to all shareholders that were on the Register of Members on 23 December 2016.
This dividend has not been included asaliability in these Financial Statements.
The trustees of the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 have waived their rights to dividends.
com 110 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 13.
Intangible assets arising on consolidation Goodwill Other Total m m m At 1 January 2016 347.5 9.9 357.4 Recognised on acquisitions ICAP 687.0 639.0 1,326.0 Recognised on acquisitions other 2.9 2.9 Amortisation of acquisition related intangibles 1.4 1.4 Effect of movements in exchange rates 26.5 1.7 28.2 At 31 December 2016 1,063.9 649.2 1,713.1 At 1 January 2015 327.1 9.5 336.6 Recognised on acquisitions 14.5 1.1 15.6 Amortisation of acquisition related intangibles 1.2 1.2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 5.9 0.5 6.4 At 31 December 2015 347.5 9.9 357.4 Other intangible assets at 31 December 2016 represent customer relationships, 610.0m 2015: 8.5m, business brands and trade marks, 28.2m 2015: 1.4m, and other intangibles, 11.0m 2015: nil that arise through business combinations.
Customer relationships are being amortised over 20 years.
Goodwill arising through business combinations has been allocated to individual cash-generating units CGUs for impairment testing as follows: 2016 2015 m m CGU EMEA 195.1 195.1 North America 93.5 75.9 Brazil 3.5 2.3 Asia Pacific 19.3 19.3 PVM 65.5 54.9 Goodwill allocated to CGUs 376.9 347.5 Unallocated goodwill 687.0 1,063.9 347.5 The provisional amount of goodwill arising on the acquisition of ICAP Note 30 has not been allocated to CGUs due to the proximity of the acquisition to the year end.
As permitted by IAS 36 Impairment of assets, allocation to relevant CGUs will be completed before the end of 2017.
As the goodwill has not been allocated to relevant CGUs it has not been assessed for impairment in the current period.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount of each CGU.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is the higher of its value in use VIU or its net realisable value NRV.
As at 31 December 2016 VIU has been used to estimate recoverable amounts for all CGUs except for Brazil where the recoverable amount has been based on that CGUs NRV.
For all CGUs, the estimate of the recoverable amount was higher than the carrying value.
The key assumptions for the VIU calculations are those regarding expected cash flows arising in future periods, regional growth rates and the discount rates.
Future cash flow projections are based on the most recent financial budgets considered by the Board which are used to project cash flows for the next five years.
After this period a steady state cash flow is used to derive a terminal value for the CGU.
Goodwill has an indefinite life and this is reflected in the calculation of the CGUs terminal value.
Estimated average growth rates, based on each regions constituent country growth rates as published by the World Bank, are used to estimate cash flows after the budgeted period.
Discount rates used are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital and are a function of the Groups cost of equity, derived using a Capital Asset Pricing Model CAPM, and the Groups cost of debt.
The cost of equity estimate depended on inputs in the CAPM reflecting a number of variables including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
These inputs are based on external assessment of economic variables together with managements judgement.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 111 13.
Intangible assets arising on consolidation continued The VIU calculations used annual growth rates of 2% for EMEA 2015: 2%, 2.5% for North America 2015: 2.5%, 3% for Asia Pacific 2015: 3% and 2% for PVM 2015: 2%.
Terminal values for each CGU assumed no further growth reflecting longer term forecasting constraints.
Resultant cash flows for EMEA, North America, Asia Pacific and PVM have been discounted at a pre-tax discount rate of 10.5% 2015: 10.5% with 12.5% for North America.
These calculations have been subject to stress tests reflecting reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
All VIU calculations are insensitive to reasonably possible changes in the discount rate and are most sensitive to lower growth rate assumptions which reduce expected cash flows.
With zero growth all CGUs recoverable amounts were still higher than their carrying value.
At this level the recoverable amount for EMEA exceeded its carrying value by 203m, which reduces to nil if annual growth rates fall to negative 4% over the projected cash flow period, North America exceeded its carrying value by 145m, which reduces to nil if annual growth rates fall to negative 4% over the projected cash flow period, and Asia exceeded its carrying value by 106m, which reduces to nil if annual growth rates fall to negative 6% over the projected cash flow period.
The impact on future cash flows resulting from falling growth rates does not reflect any management actions that would be taken under such circumstances.
Other intangible assets Purchased Developed software software Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 9.2 49.5 58.7 Additions 0.5 14.2 14.7 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP 2.4 38.8 41.2 Acquired with acquisitions other 0.3 0.3 Amounts derecognised 2.7 2.2 4.9 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1.9 2.8 4.7 At 31 December 2016 11.6 103.1 114.7 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2016 6.2 30.4 36.6 Charge for the year 1.6 6.8 8.4 Amounts derecognised 2.7 2.2 4.9 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.9 3.6 4.5 At 31 December 2016 6.0 38.6 44.6 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 5.6 64.5 70.1 Cost At 1 January 2015 7.4 41.8 49.2 Additions 1.9 7.4 9.3 Amounts derecognised 0.6 0.3 0.9 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.5 0.6 1.1 At 31 December 2015 9.2 49.5 58.7 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2015 5.5 23.6 29.1 Charge for the year 1.1 6.2 7.3 Amounts derecognised 0.6 0.2 0.8 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.2 0.8 1.0 At 31 December 2015 6.2 30.4 36.6 Carrying amount At 31 December 2015 3.0 19.1 22.1 www.
com 112 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 15.
Property, plant and equipment Land, buildings and Furniture, fixtures, leasehold equipment and improvements motor vehicles Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 28.3 56.0 84.3 Additions 0.5 2.3 2.8 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP 6.0 4.6 10.6 Disposals 0.1 1.8 1.9 Effect of movements in exchange rates 3.4 6.5 9.9 At 31 December 2016 38.1 67.6 105.7 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2016 15.2 41.7 56.9 Charge for the year 2.1 5.9 8.0 Disposals 0.1 1.8 1.9 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1.7 5.4 7.1 At 31 December 2016 18.9 51.2 70.1 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 19.2 16.4 35.6 Cost At 1 January 2015 25.4 53.9 79.3 Additions 2.3 2.3 4.6 Acquired with acquisitions 0.5 0.2 0.7 Disposals 0.4 1.2 1.6 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.5 0.8 1.3 At 31 December 2015 28.3 56.0 84.3 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2015 13.2 36.7 49.9 Charge for the year 1.9 5.8 7.7 Disposals 0.1 1.3 1.4 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.2 0.5 0.7 At 31 December 2015 15.2 41.7 56.9 Carrying amount At 31 December 2015 13.1 14.3 27.4 No assets are held under finance leases.
Investment in associates 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 6.0 5.0 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP 44.7 Disposals 0.1 Share of profit for the year 4.2 2.6 Dividends received 2.0 1.5 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.7 0.1 At 31 December 53.5 6.0 Summary financial information for associates Aggregated amounts for associates at the year end : Total assets 120.0 29.5 Total liabilities 55.9 12.0 Net assets 64.1 17.5 Aggregated amounts for associates during the year : Revenue 48.3 32.1 Profit for the year 12.7 7.8 Groups share of profit for the year 4.0 2.6 Dividends received from associates during the year 2.0 1.5 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 113 16.
Investment in associates continued Interests in associates are measured using the equity method.
All associates are involved in broking activities and have either a 31 December or 31 March year end.
The difference in year ends to that of the Group is not considered to have a material impact on their results.
Country of incorporation Percentage and operation Associated undertakings held 1 Bahrain ICAP Middle East W. L. L. 49% China Tullett Prebon SITICO China Limited 33% India Prebon Yamane India Limited 48% 1 ICAP IL India Private Limited 40% 1 Japan Totan ICAP Co. Ltd. 40% 1 Central Totan Securities Co. Ltd 20% 1 Malaysia Amanah Butler Malaysia Sdn Bhd 32.1% 1 Spain Corretaje e Informacion Monetaria y fide Divisas SA 21.5% Thailand Wall Street Tullett Prebon Limited 49% 1 United States First Brokers Securities LLC 40% Note: 1 31 March year end.
Investment in joint ventures 2016 2015 m m At 1 January Additions 0.2 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP 8.0 Share of result for the year 0.2 At 31 December 8.0 Summary financial information for joint ventures Aggregated amounts for joint ventures at the year end : Total assets 10.4 Total liabilities 6.5 Net assets 3.9 Aggregated amounts for joint ventures during the year : Revenue Result for the year 0.4 Groups share of result for the year 0.2 Dividends received from joint ventures during the year Interests in joint ventures are measured using the equity method.
All joint ventures are involved in broking activities and have a 31 December year end.
Country of incorporation Percentage and operation Joint ventures held Colombia SET-ICAP FX SA 47.9% SET-ICAP Securities S. A.
47.4% England tpSynrex Ltd 50% Mexico SIF ICAP, S. A. fide C. V. 50% United States Energy Curves LLC 50% www.
com 114 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 18.
Available-for-sale investments 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 8.5 5.2 Additions 3.2 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP 13.4 Disposals 0.2 Impairment 0.2 Revaluation in the year recognised in other comprehensive income 0.8 0.1 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1.2 At 31 December 23.5 8.5 Available-for-sale investments carried at fair value unlisted 17.2 5.0 listed 3.3 0.7 Loans and receivables 3.0 2.8 23.5 8.5 The fair values of unlisted available-for-sale investments and loans and receivables are based on derived valuations as disclosed in Note 26 i.
Listed available-for-sale investments comprise equity securities that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures.
Fair values are based on their quoted market price Level 1 valuation.
Financial assets 2016 2015 m m Short term government securities 17.5 13.7 Term deposits 1.2 6.6 Restricted funds 70.8 89.5 20.3 Financial assets are liquid funds held on deposit with banks and clearing organisations.
Restricted funds comprise cash held with a central counterparty clearing house CCP, or a financial institution providing the Group with access to a CCP, and funds set aside for regulatory purposes.
The funds represent cash for which the Group does not have immediate and direct access or for which regulatory requirements restrict the use of the cash.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 115 20.
Deferred tax 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax assets 26.5 2.4 Deferred tax liabilities 197.3 33.2 170.8 30.8 The movement for the year in the Groups net deferred tax position was as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 30.8 21.8 Charge to income for the year 0.7 0.1 Charge to other comprehensive income for the year 2.0 8.7 Recognised with acquisitions ICAP 137.6 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.3 0.2 At 31 December 170.8 30.8 Deferred tax balances and movements thereon are analysed as: Recognised Effect of Recognised in other Recognised movements At in profit comprehensive with in exchange At 1 January or loss income acquisitions rates 31 December m m m m m m 2016 Share-based payment awards 0.5 0.1 1.2 1.8 Defined benefit pension scheme 30.9 2.1 2.0 1.9 33.1 Tax losses 0.1 0.1 0.2 Bonuses 0.3 0.8 17.9 0.4 19.4 Intangible assets arising on consolidation 160.0 160.0 Other timing differences 0.7 0.4 1.3 0.1 0.9 30.8 0.7 2.0 137.6 0.3 170.8 2015 Share-based payment awards 0.2 0.3 0.5 Defined benefit pension scheme 21.7 0.6 8.6 30.9 Tax losses 0.4 0.4 Other timing differences 0.7 0.6 0.1 0.2 0.4 21.8 0.1 8.7 0.2 30.8 At the balance sheet date, the Group has gross unrecognised temporary differences of 134.7m with the unrecognised net tax amount being 32.9m 2015: gross 109.7m and net tax 24.8m respectively.
This includes gross tax losses of 101.1m with the net tax amount being 22.9m 2015: gross 87.7m and net tax 16.8m respectively, which are potentially available for offset against future profits.
Of the unrecognised gross losses 57.4m 2015: 74.0m are expected to expire within 20 years and 43.7m 13.7m have no expiry.
A deferred tax asset of 0.2m in respect of tax losses has been recognised in 2016 as it was considered probable that future tax profits should arise.
A deferred tax liability of 160.0m has been recognised in relation to the intangible assets of 639.0m that arise on the acquisition of ICAP Note 30.
The tax rate applied reflects the regional allocation of these assets.
No deferred tax has been recognised on temporary differences associated with unremitted earnings of subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of distributions and overseas dividends are largely exempt from UK tax.
As at the balance sheet date, the Group had unrecognised deferred tax liabilities of 2.3m 2015: 0.8m in respect of unremitted profits of subsidiaries of 22.5m 2015: 6.2m.
com 116 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 21.
Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 m m Non-current receivables Other debtors 18.4 Current receivables Trade receivables 249.0 94.2 Settlement balances 22,169.8 2,434.1 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 575.0 Financial assets at FVTPL 92.5 73.2 Financial assets 23,086.3 2,601.5 Other debtors 15.0 7.3 Prepayments 48.3 24.1 Accrued income 6.7 4.7 Corporation tax 0.5 0.9 Owed by associates and joint ventures 3.7 0.7 23,160.5 2,639.2 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables which are not held at fair value through profit or loss approximate to their fairvalues.
As at 31 December 2016 trade receivables that were past due but not impaired were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Less than 30 days 140.6 66.5 Between 30 and 90 days 67.6 20.5 Over 90 days 40.8 7.2 Trade receivables 249.0 94.2 Trade receivables are shown net of a provision of 3.4m 2015: 1.5m against certain trade receivables due after 90 days.
As at 31 December 2016 settlement balances that were due and those that were past due but not impaired were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Amounts not yet due 21,579.6 2,300.9 Amounts past due 590.2 133.2 Settlement balances 22,169.8 2,434.1 Settlement balances arise on Matched Principal brokerage whereby securities are bought from one counterparty and simultaneously sold to another counterparty.
The above analysis reflects only the receivable side of such transactions.
Corresponding payable amounts are shown in Note 22 Trade and other payables.
Deposits paid for securities borrowed arise on collateralised stock lending transactions.
Such trades are complete only when both the collateral and stock for each side of the transaction are returned.
The above analysis reflects the receivable side of such transactions.
Corresponding deposits received for securities loaned are shown in Note 22 Trade and other payables.
Financial assets at FVTPL arise on simultaneous back-to-back derivative transactions with counterparties.
The above analysis reflects only the asset side ofsuch transactions.
Corresponding liability amounts are shown in Note 22 Trade and other payables.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 117 22.
Trade and other payables 2016 2015 m m Trade payables 16.2 4.4 Settlement balances 22,148.9 2,433.8 Deposits received for securities loaned 585.7 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 93.4 73.2 Financial liabilities 22,844.2 2,511.4 Tax and social security 29.1 17.0 Other creditors 20.8 2.0 Accruals 319.2 132.8 Deferred income 10.9 0.9 Deferred consideration Note 30 11.9 2.6 Owed to associates and joint ventures 2.0 23,238.1 2,666.7 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables which are not held at fair value through profit or loss approximate to their fairvalues.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Less than Greater than one year one year Total m m m 2016 Bank loan due December 2017 467.3 467.3 Sterling Notes June 2019 79.5 79.5 467.3 79.5 546.8 2015 Sterling Notes July 2016 140.9 140.9 Sterling Notes June 2019 79.3 79.3 140.9 79.3 220.2 All amounts are denominated in Sterling and are stated after unamortised transaction costs.
An analysis of borrowings by maturity has been disclosed inNote 26 f. Sterling Notes: Due July 2016 The 141.1m 7.04% Guaranteed Notes were repaid in July 2016.
Sterling Notes: Due June 2019 In December 2012 80m Sterling Notes, due June 2019, were issued.
The Notes have a coupon of 5.25% paid semi-annually.
Bank loan: Due December 2017 The Group entered a 470m committed bridge financing facility that could be extended to December 2017.
Drawdown was conditional on the completion of the ICAP acquisition.
470m was drawn in December 2016 with proceeds used to repay 140m outstanding on the Groups bank credit facility and 330m to repay a loan acquired with the ICAP acquisition.
Facility fees of 3.3m were incurred in 2016, based on fees of 0.4%, increasing over time to 0.83%, on the undrawn balance.
Interest is payable on amounts drawn based on libor plus a variable margin.
Arrangement fees are amortised over the facility life.
The carrying amount of the bank loan approximates to its fairvalue.
Bank credit facility The Group has a 250m committed revolving credit facility, the maturity of which has been extended by a year to April 2019.
During the year, 140m was drawn to repay the Groups Sterling Notes that matured in July 2016.
The amount drawn was repaid from the proceeds of the bank loan.
The facility was undrawn at the end of the year.
Facility fees of 1% are payable on the undrawn balance.
Arrangement fees are amortised over the maturity of the facility.
Sterling Notes: Due January 2024 In January 2017 see Note 38, the Group issued 500m unsecured Sterling Notes due January 2024.
The Notes have a fixed coupon of 5.25% paid semi-annually, subject to compliance with the terms of the Notes.
Proceeds were used to repay the 470m bank loan.
com 118 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 24.
Provisions Legal Property Restructuring and other Total m m m m 2016 At 1 January 2016 5.6 21.4 2.1 29.1 Charge to income statement 1.1 3.1 2.2 6.4 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP 1.0 12.8 13.8 Utilisation of provision 0.3 22.3 0.5 23.1 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1.0 1.0 0.5 2.5 At 31 December 2016 8.4 3.2 17.1 28.7 2015 At 1 January 2015 5.9 8.9 1.5 16.3 Credit charge to income statement 0.2 21.4 0.6 21.8 Utilisation of provision 0.3 9.4 0.1 9.8 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.2 0.5 0.1 0.8 At 31 December 2015 5.6 21.4 2.1 29.1 2016 2015 m m Included in current liabilities 19.3 21.3 Included in non-current liabilities 9.4 7.8 28.7 29.1 Property provisions outstanding as at 31 December 2016 relate to provisions in respect of onerous leases and building dilapidations.
The onerous lease provision represents the net present value of the future rental cost net of expected sub-lease income.
These leases expire in one to ten years 2015: one to eleven years.
The building dilapidations provision represents the estimated cost of making good dilapidations and disrepair on various leasehold buildings.
The leases expire in one to six years.
Restructuring provisions outstanding as at 31 December 2015 relate to termination and other employee related costs, the majority of which were discharged during 2016.
Legal and other provisions include provisions for legal claims brought against subsidiaries of the Group together with provisions against obligations for certain employee related costs and non-property related onerous contracts.
At present the timing of any payments is uncertain and provisions are subject toregular review.
It is expected that the obligations will be discharged over the next three years.
In February 2015 the European Commission imposed a fine of 12.8m 14.9m on ICAP Europe Limited IEL for alleged competition violations in relation to the involvement of certain of IELs brokers in the attempted manipulation of Yen LIBOR by bank traders between October 2006 and January 2011.
While this matter relates to alleged conduct violations prior to completion of the Companys acquisition ofICAP the Company notes that ICAP has appealed the fine imposed by the European Commission and is seeking a full annulment of the Commissions decision.
This is recognised as a provision of 12.8m as at 31 December 2016.
In the event that the Commission imposes a fine inexcess of 15.0m such excess will be borne by NEX Group plc NEX.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 119 25.
Other long term payables 2016 2015 m m Accruals and deferred income 11.2 8.4 Deferred consideration Note 30 8.6 13.8 19.8 22.2 Accruals and deferred income includes deferred leasehold rental accruals that build up during rent free periods which are subsequently utilised over the rental payment period of the lease.
Financial instruments a Financial and liquidity risk The Group does not take trading risk and does not hold proprietary trading positions.
Consequently, the Group is exposed to trading book market risk only in relation to incidental positions in financial instruments arising as a result of the Groups failure to match clients orders precisely.
The Group has limited exposure to non-trading book market risk, specifically to interest rate risk and currency risk.
Thus the overall approach to the planning and management of the Groups capital and liquidity is to ensure the Groups solvency, i. e. its continued ability to conduct business, deliver returns to shareholders, and support growth and strategic initiatives.
This risk profile meets the necessary conditions for an investment firm consolidation waiver and the Group benefits from a waiver under the CRD IV provisions, the details of which are set out in the Regulatory Capital section of the Strategic Report on page 31.
The Group seeks to ensure that it has access to an appropriate level of cash, other forms of marketable securities and liquidity facilities to enable it to finance its ongoing operations on cost effective terms.
Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with the primary objective of capital security and availability, with a secondary objective of generating returns.
Funding requirements are monitored by the Groups Finance and Treasury functions.
As a normal part of its operations, the Group faces liquidity risk through the risk of being required to fund transactions that fail to settle on the due date.
From a risk perspective, the most problematic scenario concerns fail to deliver transactions, where the business has received a security from the selling counterparty and has paid cash in settlement of the same but is unable to effect onward delivery of the security to the buying counterparty.
Such settlement fails give rise to a funding requirement, reflecting the value of the security which the Group has failed to deliver until such time as the delivery leg is finally settled and the business has received the associated cash.
The Group has addressed this funding risk by arranging overdraft facilities to cover failed to deliver trades, either with the relevant settlement agent depository or with a clearing bank.
Under such arrangements, the facility provider will fund the value of any failed to deliver trades until delivery of the security is effected.
Certain facility providers require collateral such as a cash deposit or parent company guarantee to protect them from any adverse mark-to-market movement and some also charge a funding fee for providing the facility.
The Group is also exposed to potential margin calls from clearing houses and correspondent clearers, in both the UK and the United States.
In the event of a liquidity issue arising, the firm has recourse to existing global cash resources, after which it could draw down on its 250m committed revolving credit facility as additional contingency funding.
b Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a capital base and funding structure that maintains creditor, regulator and market confidence and provides flexibility for business development whilst also optimising returns to shareholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, as set out in Note 23, cash and cash equivalents, other current financial assets and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings asdisclosed in Notes 27 and 28.
The Group has an investment firm consolidation waiver under which it is required to monitor its compliance with a Financial Holding Company test which takes into account the Companys shareholders funds and the aggregated credit risk, market risk and fixed overhead requirements of the Companys subsidiaries.
A number of the Companys subsidiaries are individually regulated and are required to maintain capital that is appropriate to the risks entailed in their businesses according to definitions that vary according to each jurisdiction.
com 120 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 26.
Financial instruments continued c Categorisation of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets Financial Available-forLoans and assets at sale assets receivables FVTPL Total m m m m 2016 Available-for-sale investments 20.5 3.0 23.5 Financial assets 17.5 72.0 89.5 Trade receivables 249.0 249.0 Settlement balances 22,169.8 22,169.8 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 575.0 575.0 Financial assets at FVTPL 92.5 92.5 Cash and cash equivalents 696.1 696.1 38.0 23,764.9 92.5 23,895.4 2015 Available-for-sale investments 5.7 2.8 8.5 Financial assets 13.7 6.6 20.3 Trade receivables 94.2 94.2 Settlement balances 2,434.1 2,434.1 Deposits paid for securities borrowed Financial assets at FVTPL 73.2 73.2 Cash and cash equivalents 358.9 358.9 19.4 2,896.6 73.2 2,989.2 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are all held at amortised cost.
Financial Amortised liabilities cost at FVTPL Total m m m 2016 Bank loan due December 2017 467.3 467.3 Sterling Notes June 2019 79.5 79.5 Trade payables 16.2 16.2 Settlement balances 22,148.9 22,148.9 Deposits received for securities loaned 585.7 585.7 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 93.4 93.4 23,297.6 93.4 23,391.0 2015 Sterling Notes July 2016 140.9 140.9 Sterling Notes June 2019 79.3 79.3 Trade payables 4.4 4.4 Settlement balances 2,433.8 2,433.8 Deposits received for securities loaned Financial liabilities at FVTPL 73.2 73.2 2,658.4 73.2 2,731.6 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 121 26.
Financial instruments continued d Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include simultaneous back-to-back derivative transactions with counterparties which are reported as separate financial assets and financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
These transactions are subject to ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association Master Netting Agreements which provide a legally enforceable right of offset on the occurrence of a specified event of default, or other events not expected to happen in the normal course of business, but are not otherwise enforceable.
Financial Financial Financial instruments subject to enforceable Master Netting Agreements assets liabilities and similar arrangements m m 2016 Financial instruments at FVTPL 92.5 92.5 Related amounts not offset in the statement of financial position 92.5 92.5 Net position 2015 Financial instruments at FVTPL 73.2 73.2 Related amounts not offset in the statement of financial position 73.2 73.2 Net position As at 31 December 2016, financial liabilities at FVTPL of 0.9m 2015:nil were not subject to offsetting arrangements.
Their notional value was 48.6m 2015: nil.
e Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties in respect of its Name Passing, Matched Principal, Executing Broker and corporate treasury operations.
The Group does not bear any significant concentration risk to either counterparts ormarkets.
The credit risk in respect of the Name Passing business and the information sales and risk management services is limited to the collection ofoutstanding commission and transaction fees and this is managed proactively by the Groups accounts receivable functions.
As at the yearend, a majority of the Groups counterparty exposure is to investment grade counterparts rated BBBBaa3 or above.
The Matched Principal business involves the Group acting as a counterparty on trades which are undertaken on a delivery versus payment basis.
The Group manages its credit risk in these transactions through appropriate policies and procedures in order to mitigate this risk including stringent on-boarding requirements, setting appropriate credit limits for all counterparts which are closely monitored by the regional credit risk teams to restrict any potential loss through counterparty default.
Settlement of these transactions takes place according to the relevant market rules and conventions and the credit risk isconsidered to be minimal.
As at the year end, a substantial majority of the Groups counterparty exposure is to investment grade counterparts.
The credit risk on cash, cash equivalents, financial assets and financial assets at FVTPL are subject to frequent monitoring.
All financial institutions that are transacted with are approved and internal limits are assigned to each one based on a combination of factors including external credit ratings.
As at the year end, a significant proportion of cash and cash equivalents is deposited with investment grade rated financial institutions.
com 122 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 26.
Financial instruments continued f Maturity profile of financial liabilities The table below reflects the contractual maturities, including future interest obligations, of the Groups financial liabilities as at 31 December: Due between Due 3 months between Due Due within and 1 year and after 3 months 12 months 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m 2016 Settlement balances 22,148.9 22,148.9 Deposits received for securities loaned 45.2 540.5 585.7 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 56.0 37.4 93.4 Trade payables 14.6 1.6 16.2 Bank loan due December 2017 472.1 472.1 Sterling Notes June 2019 4.2 86.3 90.5 22,736.8 583.7 86.3 23,406.8 2015 Settlement balances 2,433.8 2,433.8 Deposits received for securities loaned Financial liabilities at FVTPL 23.3 49.9 73.2 Trade payables 4.4 4.4 Sterling Notes July 2016 151.1 151.1 Sterling Notes June 2019 4.2 90.5 94.7 2,461.5 205.2 90.5 2,757.2 g Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the profit for the year with regard to currency movements on financial assets and liabilities denominated inforeign currencies as at the year end.
The sensitivity of the Groups equity with regard to its net foreign currency investments at the year end, excluding ICAP, is also shown below.
Based on a 10% weakening in the US dollar and Euro exchange rates against Sterling, the effects would be as follows: 2016 2015 USD m EUR m USD m EUR m Change in foreign currency financial assets and liabilities profit or loss 2.6 1.4 1.1 1.1 Change in translation of foreign operations equity 31.0 0.8 23.9 0.6 The Group would experience an equal and opposite foreign exchange movements should the US dollar and Euro exchange rates strengthen against Sterling.
h Interest rate sensitivity analysis Interest on floating rate financial instruments is reset at intervals of less than one year.
The Groups exposure to interest rates arises on cash and cash equivalents and money market instruments.
The Sterling Notes are fixed rate financial instruments.
A 100 basis point change in interest rates, applied to average floating rate financial instrument assets and liabilities during the year, would result in the following impact on profit or loss: 2016 2015 100pts -100pts 100pts -100pts m m m m Income expense arising on: floating rate assets 3.7 3.7 3.5 1.7 floating rate liabilities 0.7 0.2 Net income expense for the year 3.0 3.5 3.5 1.7 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 123 26.
Financial instruments continued i Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset orliability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observablemarket data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m 2016 Available-for-sale investments unlisted 8.0 9.2 17.2 listed 3.3 3.3 Loans and receivables 3.0 3.0 Financial assets short term government securities 17.5 17.5 financial assets at FVTPL 92.5 92.5 Financial liabilities financial liabilities at FVTPL 93.4 93.4 20.8 7.1 12.2 40.1 2015 Available-for-sale investments unlisted 5.0 5.0 listed 0.7 0.7 Loans and receivables 2.8 2.8 Financial assets short term government securities 13.7 13.7 financial assets at FVTPL 73.2 73.2 Financial liabilities financial liabilities at FVTPL 73.2 73.2 14.4 7.8 22.2 In deriving the fair value of financial instruments at FVTPL valuation models were used which incorporated observable market data.
There were no significant inputs used in the models that were unobservable.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the year.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets: 2016 2015 m m Balance as at 1 January 7.8 4.2 Unrealised gain in other comprehensive income 0.4 Additions 3.2 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP 8.2 Disposals 0.2 Transfers to level 2 4.0 Impairments 0.2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.6 Balance as at 31 December 12.2 7.8 There were no financial liabilities subsequently remeasured at fair value on a Level 3 fair value measurement basis.
Transfers to level 2 reflect the availability of additional observable price information.
The revaluation gain of 0.4m in 2015 wasincluded within the Revaluation reserve.
com 124 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 27.
Reconciliation of shareholders funds a Share capital, Share premium account, Merger reserve Share Share premium Merger capital account reserve Total m m m m 2016 As at 1 January 2016 60.9 17.1 178.5 256.5 Issue of ordinary shares 77.6 1,205.6 1,283.2 Share issue costs 6.6 6.6 As at 31 December 2016 138.5 17.1 1,377.5 1,533.1 2015 As at 1 January and 31 December 2015 60.9 17.1 178.5 256.5 Share capital Merger reserve On 30 December 2016 the Group issued 310,314,296 ordinary shares with a fair value of 1,283.2m to acquire the issued share capital of ICAP Global Broking Holdings ICAP.
The 1,205.6m difference between the nominal value of the shares issued and their fair value has been credited to the merger reserve.
The costs associated with this share issue have been charged against the reserve.
As at 1 January 2016 the merger reserve related to prior share-based acquisitions andrepresented the difference between the value of those acquisitions and the amount required to be recorded in share capital.
On 27 September, 302,148 ordinary shares were issued to the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007. b Other reserves Reverse Hedging acquisition Revaluation and Own Other reserve reserve translation shares reserves m m m m m 2016 As at 1 January 2016 1,182.3 1.4 15.9 0.1 1,165.1 Revaluation of investments 0.8 0.8 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 59.5 59.5 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 0.8 59.5 60.3 Own shares acquired for employee trusts 6.2 6.2 As at 31 December 2016 1,182.3 2.2 75.4 6.3 1,111.0 2015 As at 1 January 2015 1,182.3 1.4 7.6 0.1 1,173.4 Revaluation of investments 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8.7 8.7 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income 0.1 0.4 0.5 Total comprehensive income 8.3 8.3 As at 31 December 2015 1,182.3 1.4 15.9 0.1 1,165.1 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 125 28.
Reconciliation of shareholders funds continued b Other reserves continued Reverse acquisition reserve The acquisition of Collins Stewart Tullett plc by Tullett Prebon plc in 2006 was accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
Under IFRS the consolidated accounts ofTullett Prebon plc are prepared as if they were a continuation of the consolidated accounts of Collins Stewart Tullett plc.
The reverse acquisition reserve represents the difference between the initial equity share capital of Tullett Prebon plc and the share capital and share premium of Collins Stewart Tullett plc atthe time of the acquisition.
This resulted in the consolidated net assets before and after the acquisition remaining unchanged.
Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve represents the remeasurement of assets in accordance with IFRS that have been recorded in other comprehensive income.
Hedging and translation The hedging and translation reserve records revaluation gains and losses arising on net investment hedges and the effect of changes in exchange rates ontranslation of foreign operations recorded in other comprehensive income.
As at 31 December 2016, 10.0m relates to amounts arising on previous net investment hedges 2015: 10.0m.
Own shares As at 31 December 2016, the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 held 1,927,575 ordinary shares 2015: 202,029 ordinary shares with a fair value of8.4m 2015: 0.8m.
During the year 302,148 ordinary shares were issued to the Trust that were used to satisfy share option exercises.
The Trust also purchased 1,725,546 ordinary shares in the open market at a cost of 6.2m.
c Total equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent NonTotal from Total from Retained controlling Total Note 28 a Note 28 b earnings Total interests equity m m m m m m 2016 As at 1 January 2016 256.5 1,165.1 1,448.6 540.0 1.7 541.7 Profit for the year 43.2 43.2 0.5 43.7 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 0.8 0.8 0.8 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 59.5 59.5 0.2 59.7 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 5.8 5.8 5.8 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income 2.0 2.0 2.0 Total comprehensive income 60.3 47.0 107.3 0.7 108.0 Dividends paid 40.7 40.7 0.5 41.2 Own shares acquired for employee trusts 6.2 6.2 6.2 Issue of ordinary shares 1,283.2 1,283.2 1,283.2 Share issue costs 6.6 6.6 6.6 Non-controlling interests arising on acquisitions 19.5 19.5 Credit arising on share-based payment awards Note 29 20.7 20.7 20.7 As at 31 December 2016 1,533.1 1,111.0 1,475.6 1,897.7 21.4 1,919.1 2015 As at 1 January 2015 256.5 1,173.4 1,378.8 461.9 1.6 463.5 Profit for the year 82.9 82.9 0.4 83.3 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 0.1 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8.7 8.7 0.1 8.8 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 24.5 24.5 24.5 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income 0.5 8.6 9.1 9.1 Total comprehensive income 8.3 98.8 107.1 0.5 107.6 Dividends paid 41.0 41.0 0.4 41.4 Credit arising on share-based payment awards Note 29 12.0 12.0 12.0 As at 31 December 2015 256.5 1,165.1 1,448.6 540.0 1.7 541.7 www.
com 126 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 29.
Share-based payments Share option awards During the year the outstanding awards under the Groups equity-based long term incentive plan, the Tullett Prebon Long Term Incentive Plan, were exercised.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 302,148 302,148 Exercised during the year 302,148 Outstanding at end of year 302,148 Exercisable at end of year 302,148 Share-based Deferred Bonus Plan Annual awards are made under the Groups Deferred Bonus Plan that commenced in 2015.
Under this plan, employees identified as Senior Managers have 20% of their annual discretionary bonus deferred into equity.
These awards are subject to the completion of service conditions and the fulfilment of other conduct requirements.
The number of deferred shares in respect of a bonus year are determined after the close period for that year at the then market price, and vest over three years from the grant.
The fair value of the deferred shares equates to the monetary value of the awards at grant date and includes the value of expected dividends that will accrue to the beneficiaries.
As part of the introduction of the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2015, a Special Award was granted to these employees.
The Special Award will vest in the period to May 2018.
Deferred Bonus Plan awards will be settled by the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 from shares purchased by it in the open market.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year Granted during the year 1,783,888 Expired during the year 3,603 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,780,285 Exercisable at the end of the year At the year end closing share price of 433.3p the estimated total number of deferred shares for the 2016 bonus year would be 838,498.
Acquisition related share-based payments As part of the acquisition of PVM, certain former shareholders are eligible to receive additional payments after three years service provided they remain as employees and PVM achieves revenue performance targets over that period.
The Group has the sole right to issue equity or cash to satisfy these additional payments, which, although deferred consideration in substance, are conditional on future employment, and the fair value of the payments as at the date of acquisition, which was estimated to be US$48.0m 34.9m, is being recognised as a sharebased expense, through the income statement and equity, over the three year service term.
The share-based expense recognised in future periods will be adjusted to reflect actual service and revenue performance.
2016 2015 m m Charge arising from the share-based Deferred Bonus Plan 4.4 1.5 Charge arising from acquisition related share-based payments 16.3 10.5 20.7 12.0 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 127 30.
Acquisitions a Subsidiaries acquired during the year ICAP On 30 December 2016, the Group issued 310.3m ordinary shares to acquire 100% of the share capital of ICAP Global Broking Holdings Limited ICAP.
The fair value of the shares issued was 1,283.2m, representing their market value at the date of issue.
No further consideration is payable in respect of the acquisition.
Due to the proximity of the acquisition to the year end and its size and complexity, the identification and measurement of the fair value of the assets acquired are incomplete and provisional.
Similarly, the allocation of the excess purchase price between identifiable intangible assets and goodwill that arise on the consolidation of ICAP are also provisional.
As permitted by IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the finalisation of the identification and measurement of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, and the allocation of the excess purchase price, will be completed during the 12 month measurement period ending on 30 December 2017.
No measurement period adjustments have been recognised in 2016.
This transaction has been accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting.
Provisional Fair value m Net assets acquired provisional Intangible assets relating to purchased and developed software 41.2 Property, plant and equipment 10.6 Investment in associates 44.7 Investment in joint ventures 8.0 Available-for-sale investments 13.4 Deferred tax assets 22.6 Trade and other receivables 13,670.3 Financial assets 67.2 Cash and cash equivalents 316.3 Total assets 14,194.3 Trade and other payables 13,685.8 Loans and borrowings 330.0 Current tax liabilities 24.5 Deferred tax liabilities 0.2 Provisions 13.8 Retirement benefit obligations 3.3 Total liabilities 14,057.6 Non-controlling interests 19.5 117.2 Intangible assets arising on consolidation provisional Other intangible assets 639.0 Deferred tax liabilities arising on other intangible assets 160.0 Goodwill 687.0 Fair value of total consideration 1,283.2 Satisfied by: Issue of ordinary shares 1,283.2 Intangible assets arising on consolidation, have been provisionally allocated to: the ICAP brand, 27m: the value of customer relationships, 601m: and other intangibles having finite lives, 11m.
An associated deferred tax liability of 160m has been recognised on acquisition, based on the regional allocation of these assets and applicable tax rates, none of which has been offset against the Groups deferred tax assets.
The balance of 687m has been provisionally recognised as goodwill, representing the value of the established workforce and the businesss reputation.
com 128 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 30.
Acquisitions continued The fair value of the brand has been estimated using a relief-from-royalty approach, based on empirical, market derived rates for such assets, and is sensitive to changes in the royalty rate applied.
The fair value of customer relationships has been estimated using the multi-period excess earnings methodology which uses the net present value of forecast, post-tax profits generated by that asset.
The fair value of customer relationships is sensitive to changes in: forecast post-tax profits: the discount rate applied: the assumed useful life of the assets: the expected rate of customer attrition: and the level of contributory asset charges for the use of other assets, including a charge for the workforce.
Changes to the provisional fair values of the identified intangible assets would result in a change to the associated deferred tax liability, with an equal and opposite change in the provisional amount of goodwill.
Trade and other receivables, financial assets, and cash and cash equivalents are disclosed at their provisional fair values but are not substantially different from their previous carrying values, reflecting the nature of those assets and the business acquired.
Contractual amounts receivable are estimated to be 1.7m higher which are not currently expected to be received.
Indemnification assets of 15.5m, receivable from NEX, have been recognised on acquisition and are included with trade and other receivables.
The fair value of these assets reflect the fair value of the provisions against which the indemnification has been received.
No contingent liabilities are currently recognised at fair value as such liabilities cannot be reliably measured due to the proximity of the acquisition to the date these financial statements were approved.
Should such contingent liabilities be recognised during the measurement period they would be matched by a further indemnification asset of an equal value.
Recognition of these assets and liabilities would not change the provisional value of goodwill currently recognised.
Provisional goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes and no associated deferred tax asset has been recorded.
ICAP is not reflected in the Groups results for 2016.
Had ICAP been acquired on 1 January 2016 revenue would have been 795.1m higher, underlying operating profit 108.0m higher and underlying earnings 84.9m higher.
If the 310.3m ordinary shares issued to acquire ICAP had been issued on 1 January 2016 the basic weighted average shares Note 11 would have been 552.6m, resulting in an underlying basic EPS 8.5p lower at 34.0p.
Acquisition costs, included in administrative expenses, amounted to 16.8m in 2016 and 12.1m in 2015.
6.6m of costs attributable to the issue of the ordinary shares have been expensed directly to equity.
Creditex In July 2016, the Group announced the acquisition of Creditexs US hybrid voice brokerage business.
Under the agreement, deferred contingent consideration is payable through to the third anniversary of completion.
The amount of deferred contingent consideration is dependent upon the performance of the business over the three year period and has a fair value estimated to be US$3.8m 2.9m.
The fair value of the net assets acquired is negligible which resulted in the recognition of US$3.8m 2.9m of goodwill arising on consolidation.
Other acquisitions During 2016 the Group acquired other interests on which no initial payments were made.
Deferred consideration is payable with an estimated fair value of 0.3m.
The fair value of the net assets acquired was 0.3m resulting in no goodwill being recognised.
b Analysis of deferred and contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions Certain acquisitions made by the Group are satisfied in part by deferred or contingent deferred consideration.
The Group has re-estimated the amounts due where necessary, with any corresponding adjustments being made profit or loss.
2016 2015 m m At 1 January 16.4 6.4 Acquisitions during the year 3.2 8.4 Remeasurement charge taken to operating profit 2.2 0.4 Unwind of discount 0.3 0.3 Cash paid 3.2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1.6 0.9 At 31 December 20.5 16.4 Amounts falling due within one year 11.9 2.6 Amounts falling due after one year 8.6 13.8 At 31 December 20.5 16.4 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 129 31.
Reconciliation of operating result to net cash from operating activities 2016 2015 m m Operating profit 73.3 121.9 Adjustments for: Share-based compensation expense 4.4 1.5 Pension schemes administration costs 0.9 0.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8.0 7.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 8.4 7.3 Pension scheme settlement gains 3.6 Acquisition related share-based payment charge 16.3 10.5 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation 1.4 1.2 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 Loss on derecognition of intangible assets 0.1 Loss on disposal of associates and subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.2 Remeasurement of deferred consideration 2.2 0.4 Impairment of available-for-sale investments 0.2 Non-cash movement in FVTPL balances 0.9 Decrease increase in provisions for liabilities and charges 17.7 11.5 Decrease in non-current liabilities 1.1 0.8 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 93.7 162.4 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 17.9 0.1 Increase decrease in net settlement and trading balances 2.5 1.3 Increase in trade and other payables 23.1 16.5 Cash generated from operations 96.4 180.3 Income taxes paid 16.7 19.5 Interest paid 21.1 16.8 Net cash from operating activities 58.6 144.0 www.
com 130 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 32.
As at 31December 2016 cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts, amounted to 696.1m 2015: 358.9m.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short term deposit rates.
Financial assets comprise short term government securities, term deposits and restricted funds held with banks and clearing organisations.
Contingent liabilities FCA investigation Tullett Prebon Europe Limited TPEL is currently under investigation by the FCA in relation to certain trades undertaken between 2008 and 2011, including trades which are risk free, which are alleged to have no commercial rationale or economic purpose, on which brokerage is paid, and trades on which brokerage may have been improperly charged.
As part of its investigation, the FCA is considering the extent to which during the relevant period i TPELs systems and controls were adequate to manage the risks associated with such trades and ii whether certain of TPELs managers were aware of, and or managed appropriately the risks associated with, the trades.
The FCA is also reviewing the circumstances surrounding a failure in 2011 by TPEL to discover certain audio files and produce them to the FCA in a timely manner.
As the investigation is ongoing, it is not possible to predict its ultimate outcome and accordingly any potential liability and or financial impact cannot currently be reliably estimated.
Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate case On 16 August 2016, a new litigation was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York naming the Company, ICAP plc, ICAP Australia Pty LTD IAPL and Tullett Prebon Australia Pty.
Limited as defendants together with various Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate BBSW setting banks.
The complaint alleges collusion by the defendants to fix BBSW-based derivatives prices through manipulative trading during the fixing window and false BBSW rate submissions.
Each of the defendants named above intend to defend the litigation vigorously.
It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the litigation or to provide an estimate of any potential financial impact.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 131 33.
Contingent liabilities continued Euroyen TIBOR case and Yen LIBOR case ICAP plc was previously named as a defendant to an existing civil litigation originally filed in April 2012 against certain Yen LIBOR and Euroyen TIBOR panel banks in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York the Laydon action.
The complaint alleges that the plaintiff, who traded positions in Euroyen TIBOR futures contracts, was injured as a result of the purported manipulation of Yen LIBOR and Euroyen TIBOR by certain panel banks and interdealer brokers.
ICAP plc was dismissed as a defendant from the Laydon action in March 2015.
However, at that time the plaintiff was given permission to add ICAP Europe Limited IEL along with certain other parties as defendants.
Other plaintiffs have filed a related complaint related to the Laydon action which includes IEL and ICAP plc as defendants the Sonterra action.
In 2015 the Company was also named as a defendant in both the Laydon action and the Sonterra action.
In March 2017, the Court dismissed the plaintiffs claims against the Company and IEL.
No subsidiary of the Group is therefore currently named as a defendant in relation to these class actions.
EURIBOR case In 2013, a civil class action was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against a number of banks asserting claims of EURIBOR manipulation.
On 13 August 2015, the plaintiffs filed a fourth amended complaint adding new defendants including ICAP plc and IEL.
Defendants briefed motions to dismiss for failure to state a claim and lack of jurisdiction, which were fully submitted as of 23 December 2015.
The Court dismissed the plaintiffs claims against ICAP plc and IEL in February 2017.
No subsidiary oftheGroup is therefore currently named as a defendant in relation to this class action.
Labour claims ICAP Brazil ICAP do Brasil Corretora fide Ttulos e Varoles Mobilirios Ltda ICAP Brazil is a defendant in 16 pending lawsuits filed in the Brazilian Labour Court by persons formerly associated with ICAP Brazil seeking damages under various statutory labour rights accorded to employees and in relation to various other claims including wrongful termination, breach of contract and harassment together the Labour claims.
TheGroup estimates the maximum potential aggregate exposure in relation to the Labour claims to be BRL 48.4m.
ICAP Brazil may also be exposed to a potential social security tax liability in relation to the Labour claims.
The Group is covered by an indemnity from NEX in relation to any outflow in respect of the Labour claims.
Flow case Tullett Prebon Brazil In December 2012, Flow Participaes Ltda.
and Brasil Plural Corretora fide Cmbio, Ttulos e Valores Flow initiated a lawsuit against Tullett Prebon Brasil S. A. Corretora fide Valores e Cmbio and Tullett Prebon Holdings do Brasil Ltda alleging that the defendants have committed a series of unfair competition misconducts, such as the recruitment of Flows former employees, the illegal obtainment and use of systems and software developed by the plaintiffs, as well as the transfer of technology and confidential information from Flow and the collusion to do so in order to increase profits from economic activities.
The amount currently claimed is BRL 182m.
Tullett intends to vigorously defend itself but there is no certainty as to the outcome of these claims.
The case is currently in an early evidentiary phase and it is stayed pending discussion before the Superior Court of Justice regarding the production of evidence.
Therefore, the case is not anticipated to be resolved in 2017.
ISDA Fix The CFTC and other government agencies have requested information from the NEX Group in relation to the setting of the US dollar segment of a benchmark known as ISDA Fix.
ICAP plcs successor firm, NEX, continues to co-operate with the agencies inquiries into the setting of that rate.
ICAP Capital Markets LLC ICM was the collection agent for ISDA Fix panel bank submissions in US dollars, but was not a panel member itself.
It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the CFTC investigation or to provide an estimate of any potential financial impact.
In September and October 2014, five class actions were filed alleging injury due to purported manipulation of the USD ISDA Fix rate.
ICM is a defendant in those actions, which have now been consolidated into a single action, along with several ISDA Fix panel banks.
Pursuant to the terms of the sale and purchase agreement between the Company and NEX it was agreed that ICM would transfer its activities and business to the Company but that ICM would not be transferred to the Companys ownership at completion.
It was further agreed that in the event of any claims or losses arising in relation to ISDA Fix, these would be for the account of NEX.
It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the litigation or the CFTCs enquiries or to provide an estimate of any potential financial impact.
The Company and its Group may nevertheless suffer financial loss either directly or as a consequence of damage to its reputation as a result of these matters.
Swaps civil litigation In December 2016, ICAP SEF US LLC and ICAP Global Derivatives Limited were named in a class action alleging that they and certain dealer banks colluded to prevent buy side customers from accessing all-to-all anonymous electronic trading platforms and therefore prevented buy side customers from getting access to the best interest rate swap prices.
The actions generally asserted claims of violation of antitrust laws and unjust enrichment.
Each of ICAP SEF US LLC and ICAP Global Derivatives Limited intend to defend these litigation claims vigorously.
The Company expects that it will benefit from the warranty provisions of the sale and purchase agreement with NEX such that any outflow in respect of the ICAP entities with regard to this litigation will be borne by NEX.
com 132 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 33.
Contingent liabilities continued General note From time to time the Companys subsidiaries are engaged in litigation in relation to a variety of matters, and it is required to provide information to regulators and other government agencies as part of informal and formal enquiries or market reviews.
The Companys reputation may also be damaged by any involvement or the involvement of any of its employees or former employees in any regulatory investigation and by any allegations or findings, even where the associated fine or penalty is not material.
In the normal course of business, certain of the Companys subsidiaries enter into guarantees and indemnities to cover trading arrangements and or the use of third party services or software.
Save as outlined above in respect of legal matters or disputes for which a provision has not been made, notwithstanding the uncertainties that are inherent in the outcome of such matters, there are no individual matters which are considered to pose a significant risk of material adverse financial impact on the Companys results or net assets.
The Group operates in a wide variety of jurisdictions around the world and uncertainties therefore exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax laws and practices of those territories.
The Group establishes provisions for taxes other than current and deferred income taxes, based upon various factors which are continually evaluated, if there is a present obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Operating lease commitments 2016 2015 m m Minimum operating lease payments recognised in the income statement 18.1 14.7 At 31 December 2016 the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due asfollows: 2016 2015 Buildings Other Buildings Other m m m m Within one year 25.7 1.0 13.8 0.8 Within two to five years 78.7 0.5 41.3 0.3 Over five years 106.7 37.8 211.1 1.5 92.9 1.1 35.
Retirement benefits a Defined benefit schemes The Group has a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK and a small number of schemes operated in other countries.
The overseas schemes are not significant in the context of the Group.
2016 2015 m m Defined benefit scheme surplus UK 99.9 88.2 Defined benefit schemes surplus Overseas 0.1 100.0 88.2 Defined benefit schemes deficit Overseas 3.3 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 133 35.
Retirement benefits continued b UK defined benefit scheme The Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme is the defined benefit section of the Tullett Prebon Pension Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme is a final salary, funded pension scheme that is closed to new members and future accrual.
For members still in service there is a continuing link between benefits and pensionable pay.
The Principal Employer is Tullett Prebon Group Limited.
The assets of the Scheme are held separately from those of the Group, either in separate trustee administered funds or in contract-based policies of insurance.
The latest funding actuarial valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 30 April 2013 by independent qualified actuaries.
A valuation as at 30 April 2016 is currently in progress but has not been finalised as at the date of approval of these Financial Statements.
The Trustees of the Scheme are currently making arrangements for the transfer of the Schemes liabilities to a third party to take on responsibility for the provision of benefits, removing the Companys responsibility for supporting the Scheme financially.
In 2016, as part of the preparation for a transfer, the Trustees offered all deferred members an option, for a limited time, to benefit from a transfer of their benefits to another provider.
The offer resulted in approximately 63 members transferring a total of 29.1m in assets out of the Scheme.
A net gain of 3.6m arose as a result of this settlement, representing the difference between the 29.1m transferred out and the corresponding liabilities, measured on an IAS 19 basis, at the date that the settlement became binding.
The amounts included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of the Scheme are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Fair value of Scheme assets 317.0 289.8 Present value of Scheme liabilities 217.1 201.6 Defined benefit scheme surplus 99.9 88.2 Deferred tax liability Note 20 35.0 30.9 The main financial assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries of the Scheme to calculate the liabilities under IAS 19 were: 2016 2015 % % Key assumptions Discount rate 2.50 3.70 Expected rate of salary increases 4.75 4.65 1 Rate of increase in LPI pensions in payment 2.40 2.30 Inflation assumption 2.40 2.30 Note: 1 This applies to pensions accrued from 6 April 1997.
The majority of current and future pensions receive fixed increases in payment of either 0% or 2.5%.
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables and allow for future mortality improvements and are the same as those adopted for the 2013 funding valuation.
Assumptions for the Scheme are that a member who retires in 15 years time at age 60 will live on average for a further 31.5 years 2015: 31.4 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 32.9 years 2015: 32.8 years after retirement if they are female.
Current pensioners are assumed to have a generally shorter life expectancy based on their current age.
com 134 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 35.
Retirement benefits continued The valuation of the Scheme liabilities is sensitive to changes in the assumptions used.
The effect of changes in the discount rate, inflation and mortality assumptions, assuming an independent change in one assumption with all others held constant, on the liabilities is shown below: Scheme Scheme Surplus assets liabilities deficit m m m As at 31 December 2016 317.0 217.1 99.9 Following a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate Change 0% 6.0% 13.0% New value 317.0 230.1 86.9 Following a 0.25% increase in the inflation assumption Change 0% 2.7% 5.9% New value 317.0 223.0 94.0 Life expectancy increases by 3 years Change 0% 7.0% 15.2% New value 317.0 232.3 84.7 Note: The above analysis does not reflect any inter-relationship between the assumptions.
Changes to the risks inherent in the Scheme would result in changes to the Schemes carrying value.
The most significant risks are: investment performance the liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set by reference to bond yields.
If assets underperform this yield, this would result in the carrying value ofthe Scheme reducing: changes in bond yields a decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the Schemes liabilities: inflation risk some of the Schemes liabilities are linked to inflation, and higher inflation would lead to higher liabilities mitigated by a cap on the level of inflationary increases which protects against extreme inflationary increases : and life expectancy the majority of the Schemes obligations are for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the Scheme were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Deemed interest arising on the defined benefit pension scheme surplus 3.2 2.3 Schemes administrative expenses 0.9 0.7 Pension scheme settlement gain 3.6 Deemed interest arising on the defined benefit pension scheme surplus has been included within finance income Note 8.
The amounts recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the Scheme were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income Trustee administered funds 50.0 29.8 Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income revaluation of insurance policies 0.6 Actuarial losses arising on the revaluation of insurance policies 0.6 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 40.3 0.8 Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 7.6 6.7 Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 3.7 2.2 Remeasurement of the defined benefit pension scheme 5.8 24.5 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 135 35.
Retirement benefits continued b UK defined benefit scheme continued Movements in the present value of the Scheme liabilities were as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 201.6 193.6 Deemed interest cost 6.8 7.1 Settlement gains 3.6 Actuarial losses on the revaluation of insurance policies 0.6 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 40.3 0.8 Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 7.6 6.7 Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 3.7 2.2 Benefits paid transfers out 32.5 4.4 At 31 December 217.1 201.6 Movements in the fair value of the Scheme assets were as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 289.8 255.7 Deemed interest income 10.0 9.4 Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income Trustee administered funds 50.0 29.8 Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income revaluation of insurance policies 0.6 Benefits paid transfers out 32.5 4.4 Administrative expense 0.9 0.7 At 31 December 317.0 289.8 The major categories and fair values of the Scheme assets as at 31 December were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Cash and cash equivalents 4.4 3.9 Equity instruments Consumer products 179.2 222.8 Industrials 19.0 21.1 Business services 30.4 36.3 228.6 280.2 Government bonds 78.3 Insurance policies 4.9 4.4 Other receivables 0.8 1.3 At 31 December 317.0 289.8 All equity instruments have quoted prices in active markets Level 1.
The Scheme does not hedge against foreign currency exposures or interest rate risk.
After the year end, as part of the arrangements for the transfer of the Schemes liabilities, the Trustees transferred all of the Schemes equity investments into fixed income securities and bonds.
The Scheme duration is an indicator of the weighted average time until benefit payments are made.
For the Scheme as a whole, the duration is around 20years reflecting the approximate split of the defined benefit liability between current employees duration of 25 years, deferred members duration of23years and current pensioners duration of 13 years.
The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid into the Scheme during 2017 is nil.
com 136 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 35.
Retirement benefits continued c Defined contribution pensions The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes for qualifying employees.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of theGroup.
The defined contribution pension cost for the Group charged to administrative expenses was 7.2m 2015: 7.1m, of which 2.6m 2015: 2.0m related tooverseas schemes.
As at 31 December 2016, there was 0.1m outstanding in respect of the current reporting period that had not been paid over to the schemes 2015: 0.6m.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this Note.
The total amounts owed to and from associates and joint ventures at 31 December 2016, which also represent the value of transactions during the year, areset out below: Amounts owed by Amounts owed to related parties related parties 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Associates 3.2 0.7 0.2 Joint ventures 0.5 1.8 The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Directors Costs in respect of the Directors who were the key management personnel of the Group during the year are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Report onDirectors Remuneration on pages 56 to 77.
2016 2015 m m Short term benefits 5.0 3.8 Social security costs 0.7 0.5 5.7 4.3 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 137 37.
Principal subsidiaries At 31 December 2016, the following companies were the Groups principal subsidiary undertakings.
A full list of the Groups undertakings, thecountry of incorporation and the Groups effective percentage of equity owned is set out in the listing on pages 144 to 152.
All subsidiaries are involved in broking or information sales activities and have either a 31 December or 31 March year end as identified below.
Country of incorporation Issued ordinary and operation Principal subsidiary undertakings shares, all voting 1 Australia ICAP Brokers Pty Limited 100% Bermuda operating in England PVM Oil Associates Limited 100% 1 Brazil ICAP do Brasil Corretora fide Ttulos e Valores Mobilirios Ltda 100% Tullett Prebon Brasil S. A.
100% 1 England ICAP Energy Limited 100% 1 ICAP Europe Limited 100% 1 ICAP Global Derivatives Limited 100% 1 ICAP Information Services Limited 100% 1 ICAP Management Services Limited 100% 1 ICAP Securities Limited 100% 1 ICAP WCLK Limited 100% 1 The Link Asset and Securities Company Limited 100% Tullett Prebon Europe Limited 100% Tullett Prebon Securities Limited 100% PVM Oil Futures Limited 100% Guernsey operating in England Tullett Prebon Information Limited 100% 1 Hong Kong ICAP Hong Kong Limited 100% 1 ICAP Equities Asia Limited 100% 1 ICAP Securities Hong Kong Limited 100% Tullett Prebon Hong Kong Limited 100% Indonesia PT.
Inti Tullett Prebon Indonesia 57.52% Japan Tullett Prebon Japan Limited 100% 1 Singapore ICAP AP Singapore Pte.
Limited 100% 1 ICAP Management Services Private Limited 100% Tullett Prebon Energy Singapore Pte.
Ltd. 100% Tullett Prebon Singapore Limited 100% PVM Oil Associates Pte.
Ltd. 100% UAE Tullett Prebon Dubai Limited 100% 1 United States ICAP Corporates LLC 100% 1 ICAP Energy LLC 100% 1 ICAP Information Services Inc. 100% 1 ICAP Securities USA LLC 100% 1 ICAP SEF US LLC 100% Tullett Prebon Americas Corp. 100% Tullett Prebon Financial Services LLC 100% PVM Futures Inc 100% Tullett Prebon Information Inc 100% Note: 1 31 March year end.
As at 31 December 2016, 21.4m 2015: 1.7m is due to non-controlling interests relating to those subsidiaries that are not wholly owned.
Movements in non-controlling interests are set out in Note 28 c. No individual non-controlling interest is material to the Group.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of the Group to access or use assets and settle liabilities relating to these subsidiaries.
Events after the balance sheet date In January 2017, the Group issued 500m unsecured Sterling Notes due January 2024.
