NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS The amount of deferred tax provided is based on i Operating Lease Contracts n Trade and Other Payables 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES the expected manner of realisation or settlement of d Functional and Presentation currency the Group as Lessor the carrying amount of assets and liabilities.
Rental income received in advance represents the In determining the expected manner of realisation A summary of the principal Items included in the financial statements of pro-rated rental income invoiced before the year The Group has entered into commercial property of an asset the directors consider that the Group end that relates to the period post the year end.
VAT the Group are measured using the currency of leases on its investment property portfolio.
will recover the value of investment property accounting policies, all of which have the primary economic environment in which payable is the difference between output and input The Group has determined, based on an evaluation through sale.
Deferred income tax relating to VAT at the year end.
Other payables are accounted for the Company and its subsidiaries operate of the terms and conditions of the arrangements items recognised directly in equity is recognised been applied consistently throughout on an accruals basis and include amounts which are the functional currency which is pounds that it retains all the significant risks and rewards in equity and not in profit or loss.
The financial statements are also due for settlement by the Group as at the year end and of ownership of these properties and so accounts the year, is set out below.
are generally carried at the original invoice amount.
All figures in for leases as operating leases.
Initial direct costs h Investment Properties the financial statements are rounded to the An estimate is made for any services incurred at the incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating year end but for which no invoice has been received.
nearest thousand unless otherwise stated.
lease are added to the carrying amount of the Investment properties are initially recognised at leased asset and recognised as an expense on cost, being the fair value of consideration given, e Revenue Recognition a straight-line basis over the lease term.
o Reserves including transaction costs associated with the investment property.
Any subsequent capital j Share Issue Expenses Rental income, excluding VAT, arising from Share Capital expenditure incurred in improving investment operating leases including those containing properties is capitalised in the period during This represents the proceeds from issuing ordinary stepped and fixed rent increases is accounted Incremental external costs directly attributable to which the expenditure is incurred and included shares.
for in the Statement of Comprehensive Income the issue of shares that would otherwise have been within the book cost of the property.
on a straight line basis over the lease term.
avoided are written off to capital reserves.
Special Distributable Reserve Lease premiums paid and rent free periods After initial recognition, investment properties The special reserve is a distributable reserve to be granted, are recognised as assets and are k Segmental Reporting are measured at fair value, with the movement used for all purposes permitted under Guernsey amortised over the non-cancellable lease term.
in fair value recognised in the Statement of law, including the buyback of shares and the a Basis of Accounting b Significant accounting judgements, Comprehensive Income and transferred to the payment of dividends.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Group estimates and assumptions Interest income is accounted on an accruals basis Capital Reserve.
Fair value is based on the external is engaged in a single segment of business being and included in operating profit.
valuation provided by CBRE Limited, chartered The consolidated accounts have been prepared in Capital Reserve property investment in the United Kingdom.
surveyors, at the Balance Sheet date.
The assessed accordance with International Financial Reporting The preparation of the Groups financial statements The Directors are of the opinion that the four The following are accounted for in this reserve: f Expenses fair value is reduced by the carrying amount of any Standards issued by the International Accounting requires management to make judgements, property sectors analysed throughout the financial accrued income resulting from the spreading of Standards Board the IASB, interpretations issued estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts statements constitute this single segment, and are gains and losses on the disposal of investment lease incentives and or minimum lease payments.
by the IFRS Interpretations Committee that remain recognised in the financial statements.
However, Expenses are accounted for on an accruals not separate operating segments as defined by IFRS properties: in effect, and to the extent that they have been uncertainty about these judgements, assumptions basis.
The Groups investment management and 8 Operating Segments.
On derecognition, gains and losses on disposals adopted by the European Union, applicable legal and estimates could result in outcomes that could increases and decreases in the fair value of administration fees, finance costs and all other of investment properties are recognised in and regulatory requirements of Guernsey law and require a material adjustment to the carrying investment properties held at the year end.
expenses are charged through the Statement of l Cash and Cash Equivalents the Statement of Comprehensive Income and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
amount of the asset or liability affected in the future.
Service charge costs, transferred to the Capital Reserve.
The audited Consolidated Financial Statements of Revenue Reserve to the extent they are not recoverable from the Group have been prepared under the historical Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash Key estimation uncertainties tenants, are accounted for on an accruals basis Any surplus arising from the net profit on ordinary Recognition and derecognition occurs on the cost convention as modified by the measurement in hand, demand deposits, and other short-term and included in operating profit.
Fair value of investment properties: Investment activities after taxation and payment of dividends is unconditional exchange of signed contracts of investment property and derivative financial highly liquid investments readily convertible within taken to this reserve, with any deficit charged to the property is stated at fair value as at the balance between a willing buyer and a willing seller.
The consolidated financial three months or less to known amounts of cash and sheet date as set out in note 1 h and note 9 to special distributable reserve.
g Taxation statements are presented in pound sterling.
subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Investment property is transferred to current assets Interest Rate Swap Reserve held for sale when it is expected that the carrying New and amended standards and interpretations Current income tax assets and liabilities are m Trade and Other Receivables The determination of the fair value of investment Any surplus deficit arising from the marked amount will be recovered principally through sale measured at the amount expected to be recovered The accounting policies adopted are consistent with properties requires the use of estimates such as to market valuation of the swap instrument is rather than from continuing use.
For this to be the from or paid to taxation authorities.
The tax rates those of the previous financial year.
There have future cash flows from the assets.
The estimate credited charged to this account.
case, the property must be available for immediate Trade receivables, which are generally due and tax laws used to compute the amount are been other new and amended standards issued or of future cash flows includes consideration of the sale in its present condition, subject only to terms for settlement at the relevant quarter end are those that are enacted or substantively enacted have come into effect in the European Union from repair and condition of the property, lease terms, Treasury Share Reserve that are usual and customary for sales of such recognised and carried at the original invoice by the reporting date.
Current income tax relating 1 January 2016 but either these were not applicable future lease events, as well as other relevant factors property and its sale must be highly probable.
amount less an allowance for any uncollectable This represents the cost of shares bought back by to items recognised directly in equity is recognised or did not have a material impact on the annual for the particular asset.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made the Company and held in Treasury.
The balance in equity and not in profit or loss.
Positions consolidated financial statements of the Group The Group has entered into forward funding when collection of the full amount is no longer within this reserve is currently nil.
taken in tax returns with respect to situations and hence not discussed and are detailed below: These estimates are based on local market conditions agreements with third party developers in respect probable, debts are over 90 days old or relate to in which applicable tax regulations are subject existing at the balance sheet date.
Under these agreements tenants in administration.
Bad debts are written to interpretation are periodically evaluated and p Interest-bearing borrowings Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20102012 Cycle the Group will make payments to the developer off when identified.
c Basis of Consolidation Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20112013 Cycle as construction progresses.
The value of these payments is assessed and certified by an expert.
All bank loans and borrowings are initially Deferred income tax is provided using the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20142016 Cycle recognised at cost, being the fair value of the The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts liability method on all temporary differences at consideration received net of arrangement costs Investment properties are recognised for accounting of the Company and its subsidiaries drawn up to the reporting date between the tax bases of assets purposes upon completion of contract.
Properties associated with the borrowing.
After initial 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are consolidated and liabilities and their carrying amounts for purchased under forward funding contracts are recognition, all interest bearing loans and financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax from the date on which control is transferred to the recognised at certified value to date.
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised Group and cease to be consolidated from the date assets are recognised only to the extent that it is cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into on which control is transferred out of the Group.
probable that taxable profit will be available against account any loan arrangement costs and any The Jersey Property Unit Trusts JPUTS are all which deductible temporary differences, carried discount or premium on settlement.
controlled via voting rights and hence those entities forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
