INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Continued AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an We audit all of the Groups subsidiaries which understanding of the Group and its environment, are subject to audit at statutory materiality including internal controls, and assessing the level, which in many cases is substantially risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
We also The Group is audited by one audit team, led by tested the consolidation process and carried the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The audit is performed out analytical procedures to confirm our centrally, as the books and records for each entity conclusion that there were no significant risks within the Group are maintained at head office.
of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE OTHER MATTER SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been An audit involves obtaining evidence about the properly prepared in accordance with the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Adequacy of explanations received and Corporate Governance Statement Our duty to read other information in the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as sufficient to give reasonable assurance that accounting records Annual Report if that Act had applied to the company.
the financial statements are free from material Under the Companies Guernsey Law, Under the Listing Rules we are also required Under International Standards on Auditing misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
to review part of the Corporate Governance This includes an assessment of: whether the 2008 we are required to report to you if, UK and Ireland, we are required to report RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF in our opinion: Statement relating to the companys to you if, in our opinion, information in the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR circumstances and have been consistently applied compliance with certain provisions of the annual report is: we have not received all the information UK Corporate Governance Code.
and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness and explanations we require for our audit: or materially inconsistent with the As explained more fully in the Directors of significant accounting estimates made by the information in the audited financial Responsibilities Statement, the directors are directors: and the overall presentation of the proper accounting records have not been statements: or responsible for the preparation of the financial financial statements.
In addition, we read all the kept by the parent company: or statements and for being satisfied that they give financial and non-financial information in the apparently materially incorrect based a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements are not in annual report to identify material inconsistencies on, or materially inconsistent with, our and express an opinion on the financial statements agreement with the accounting records.
with the audited financial statements and to identify knowledge of the group acquired in the in accordance with applicable law and International any information that is apparently materially course of performing our audit: or Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent comply with International Standard on Quality otherwise misleading.
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any In particular, we are required to and tools aim to ensure that our quality control apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies consider whether we have identified any procedures are effective, understood and applied.
we consider the implications for our report.
inconsistencies between our knowledge Our quality controls and systems include our acquired during the audit and the dedicated professional standards review team John Clacy directors statement that they consider and independent partner reviews.
Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf the annual report is fair, balanced and of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and understandable and whether the annual This report is made solely to the companys Recognised Auditor St Peter Port, Guernsey report appropriately discloses those members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 19 April 2017 matters that we communicated to the audit of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit committee which we consider should have work has been undertaken so that we might state been disclosed.
to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the We have nothing to report in respect of We have nothing to report arising from We confirm that we have not companys members as a body, for our audit work, these matters.
identified any such inconsistencies for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
