UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of preparation This section provides general information about the Group and the accounting policies that apply to the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
Accounting policies that are specific to a particular note are provided within the note to which it relates.
This section also details the new or amended accounting standards adopted during the year as well as the anticipated impact of future changes to accounting standards that are not yet effective.
UBM plc is a public limited company incorporated in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The registered office is Ogier House, The Esplanade, St. Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey.
UBM plc is tax resident in the United Kingdom.
The principal activities of the Group are described in Section 2.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 21 February 2017.
They are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and are prepared under the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and hedged items which are measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company, UBM plc.
All amounts are rounded to the nearest 0.1m unless otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those used for the previous financial year, except for the adoption of the following new and amended IFRSs.
Accounting standard Requirements Impact on financial statements IAS 19 Employee The amendment requires the high quality corporate bonds used in The amendment does not have a Benefits amended estimating the discount rate for post-employment benefits to be material impact.
denominated in the same currency as the benefits to be paid.
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
IFRS 11 Joint This amendment requires an acquirer of an interest in a joint The amendment does not have a Arrangements operation in which the activity constitutes a business to apply all of material impact.
amended the business combinations accounting principles in IFRS 3 and other IFRSs, except for those principles that conflict with the guidance in IFRS 11, and disclose the information required by IFRS 3 and other IFRSs for business combinations.
The following new and amended standards have also been adopted but they do not impact the consolidated financial statements of the Group: IFRS 14: Regulatory Deferral Accounts: IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment amended and IAS 38 Intangible Assets amended : IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements amended : Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception: Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41: Agriculture Bearer Plants: and Annual Improvements 2012-2014 IFRS 5: Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations Changes in methods of disposal: IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures Servicing Contracts: IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures Applicability of the offsetting disclosures to condensed interim financial statements: IAS 34: Interim Financial Reporting Disclosure of information elsewhere in the interim financial report.
118 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Discontinued operations The sale of the PR Newswire businesses PR Newswire to Cision, a business controlled by GTCR Canyon Holdings Cayman, L. P. completed on 16 June 2016 for $841m comprising $810m in cash and $31m of preferred equity on a fair value basis at that date.
The preferred equity constitutes 400,000 Class A limited partnership units in the purchaser parent with a par value of $40m and interest coupon of 8%.
Having been subject to further regulatory clearance, the sale of the PR Newswire China business completed on 30 September 2016.
PR Newswire is classified as discontinued for all periods in these consolidated financial statements.
As the disposal was announced on 15 December 2015 it was classified as held for sale at 31 December 2015.
These businesses constituted the entire PR Newswire operating segment.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future see page 55 of the Operating and Financial Review.
The consolidated financial statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise those of UBM plc the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and include the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it has the rights, to variable returns and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases.
The financial statements of material subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated in full.
With effect from 1 January 2010, total comprehensive income within a subsidiary is attributed to the non-controlling interest even if it results in a deficit balance.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are joint arrangements in which the Group has the rights to the net assets through joint control with a third party.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Associates are entities in which the Group has significant influence through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures and associates using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in the joint venture or associate is initially measured at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the entity since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the entity is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the entity.
The statement of comprehensive income includes the Groups share of any other comprehensive income recognised by the joint venture or associate.
All unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions with joint ventures and associates are eliminated in full.
These investments are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by Group entities in their respective functional currency using the spot rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date.
Differences arising on the settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in profit or loss.
119 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of preparation continued Foreign currencies continued On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date.
Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate prevailing in the month in which the transactions occurred.
The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation are recognised in other comprehensive income and are shown as a separate component of equity, which was reset to zero on first time adoption of IFRS.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement or translation of monetary items designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation are also recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the accumulated amount of other comprehensive income held in a separate component of equity relating to that foreign operation is reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss, along with the cumulative amount of exchange recognised in relation to hedging instruments.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of expenses, assets and liabilities and the accompanying disclosures.
Uncertainty about the assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes which differ from the estimates.
The judgements made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies that have the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements relate to: Unrecognised deferred tax assets Note 3.6 The identification of cash generating units and assumptions used in the impairment testing of goodwill Note 4.1 The measurement of retirement benefit obligations Note 7.2 The identification of intangible assets acquired in business combinations Note 6.1 The key areas of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that could have a material effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year relate to: Current tax liabilities Note 3.6 Forecast cash flows used in annual impairment testing of goodwill Note 4.1 Provisions, including warranty provisions Note 4.6 120 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements New and amended IFRSs issued by the IASB but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2016 The following new and amended IFRSs may have an impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements: Accounting standard Requirements Impact on financial statements IFRS 9 Financial Financial assets will be measured at amortised cost or fair value.
Liabilities will The Group is currently Instruments be measured in accordance with the existing requirements of IAS 39, but the performing an assessment of portion of the change in fair value of a liability arising from changes in the the impact of this standard.
entitys own credit risk will be presented in other comprehensive income, rather than in the income statement.
These are not considered to have a material impact.
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 Revenue IFRS 15 applies to all contracts with customers excluding those covered by other The analysis of the impact Recognition IFRSs such as lease contracts, insurance contracts, and financial instruments.
is in progress but is not Core principle of the standard: expected to have a material Recognise revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an impact.
amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Amendments to The amendment addresses three main areas: the effects of vesting conditions The Group is currently IFRS 2 Share on the measurement of a cash-settled share-based payment transaction: the performing an assessment Based Payments classification of a share-based payment transaction with net settlement of the impact of this features for withholding tax obligations: and accounting where a modification standard.
to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment transaction changes its classification from cash settled to equity settled.
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 specifies how an IFRS reporter will recognise, measure, present and The Group is currently disclose leases.
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, performing an assessment requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the of this standard, however lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
Lessors it is expected to have a continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with IFRS 16s approach to material impact as it will lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17. result in the Group recognising assets on the Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 balance sheet.
The exact value will depend on the leases held in the future.
The current level of operating leases held by the Group is disclosed in Note 3.4.
The following new and amended standards will be adopted by the Group from 1 January 2017 and will not impact the consolidated financial statements of the Group: Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Asset Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture 121
