NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the tenth Annual General Meeting of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited will be convened at the offices of Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3QL on 21 June 2017 at 10.00 a. m. for the following purposes.
b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an Ordinary Resolutions Notes aggregate nominal value of 32,485,312 being approximately 10 per cent of the nominal value of the issued share capital of To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled the Company including treasury shares, as at 19 April 2017.
Ordinary Resolutions: to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
That the Company, be authorised in accordance with section 315 1.
To approve and adopt the Report of the Directors, Auditor Report and of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended, the Law the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is to make market acquisitions within the meaning of section 316 I appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares held by of the law of its own ordinary shares of 25p each shares either 2.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report for him or her.
for retention as treasury shares for future resale of transfer or the year to 31 December 2016. cancellation, provided that: 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor to the Company should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney or a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be acquired until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified shall be equal to 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued share capital copy of such power or authority, so as to reach Computershare Investor on the date on which this resolution is passed: 4.
T o authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
Services Jersey Limited, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, not later than 10.00 a. m. on 19 June 2017. b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for 5.
To re-elect Mr Michael Ayre as a Director of the Company.
a Share is 25p, being the nominal value per share: 4.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member 6.
To re-elect Mr Ken McCullagh as a Director of the Company.
from attending in person at the Meeting.
If you have appointed a proxy c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for and attend the meeting in person your proxy appointment will remain a Share shall not be more than the higher of i an amount equal to 7.
To re-elect Mrs Sandra Platts as a Director of the Company.
valid and you may not vote at the meeting unless you have provided 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for a hard copy notice to revoke the proxy to Computershare Investor 8.
To re-elect Mr John Robertson as a Director of the Company.
a Share taken from the London Stock Exchanges Daily Official List Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY no less for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the than 48 hours excluding any part of a day that is not a working day 9.
To re-elect Mr Andrew Wilson as a Director of the Company.
Share is purchased and ii the higher of the last independent trade and prior to the commencement of the meeting as set out above.
the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: 5.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the Special Resolutions d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017 or, a member must first have his or her name entered on the register of if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Special members at the close of business on the day which is two days before Resolutions: resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and the date of the meeting.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to 10.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally e the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the attend and vote at such Meeting.
empowered, to allot ordinary shares in the Company or grant rights authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, ordinary shares in the which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration 6.
The Dir ectors letters of appointment will be available for inspection Company equity securities, for cash including by way of a sale of of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to for fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares, as if any preany such contract.
emption rights in relation to the issue of shares as set out in the listing rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority under Part VI of the By order of the Board 7.
A s at 19 April 2017, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended did not apply Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services document, the Company had 1,299,412,465 ordinary shares in issue with to any such allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: Guernsey Limited a total of 1,299,412,465 voting rights.
Secretary a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of Trafalgar Court 8.
An y person holding 3 per cent of the total voting rights in the the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry Les Banques Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is the St Peter Port earlier, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies Guernsey offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Channel Islands to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity Transparency Rules.
GY1 3QL securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the 19 April 2017 power conferred hereby had not expired: and 84 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts 85
