SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Alternative Investment Fund Managers SLI CF does not employ any direct staff.
The board Dividends Share Price Alternative Performance Measures AIFM Directive Leverage of the AIFM are employees of Standard Life Investments Limited SLI and are subject to the It is the Directors intention in line with the The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the The following Alternative Performance Measures The Companys maximum and average actual In accordance with the AIFM Directive, information SLI and Standard Life Group policies as regulated Companys investment objective to pay an London Stock Exchange.
Prices are given daily in APMs are used by the Company.
As definitions in relation to the Companys leverage and the leverage levels at 31 December 2016 are shown below: by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
SLI is attractive level of dividend income to shareholders the Financial Times under Investment Companies vary between entities, calculation methodologies remuneration of the Companys AIFM, Standard subject to the FCAs Prudential Sourcebook for on a quarterly basis.
The Directors intend to set Conventional Property ICs.
are detailed below: Life Investments Corporate Funds Limited, Banks, Building Societies and Investment Firms Leverage the level of dividend after taking into account the is required to be made available to investors.
Gross Method Commitment Method BIPRU Remuneration Requirements under exposure long term income return of the Property Portfolio, Share Price Total Return The return to Change of Address SYSC 19C on a proportionate basis.
The board of the diversity and covenant strength of the tenants shareholders calculated on a per share basis SLICF has responsibility for the risk management Maximum Limit 250% 250% and the length of the leases of the Properties.
by adding dividends paid in the period to the arrangements as they relate to the AIFM fund range.
Communications with shareholders are mailed increase or decrease in Share Price.
Dividends are to the address held on the share register.
In the Dividends on the ordinary shares are expected assumed to have been reinvested in the quarter The investment processes are subject to the Actual 137% 124% event of a change of address or other amendment to be paid in equal instalments quarterly in they are paid, excluding transaction costs.
governance structure of SLI and the board of this should be notified to Computershare Investor respect of each financial year in May, August, SLI CF monitors the effectiveness in meeting Services Guernsey Limited, c o Queensway House, November and February.
All dividends will be NAV Total Return The return to shareholders strict criteria at an AIF level.
The board of SLI Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES under the paid as interim dividends.
calculated on a per share basis by adding For the purposes of the AIFM Directive, leverage CF discharges its duties via regular reporting signature of the registered holder.
dividends paid in the period to the increase or is any method which increases the Companys and review at board meetings and via allocation Shareholders who wish to have dividends paid decrease in NAV.
Dividends are assumed to have exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the of executive responsibilities, in relation to SLI CF, Shareholder Enquiries directly into a bank account rather than by cheque been reinvested in the quarter they are paid, use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a percentage within the SLI management team.
to their registered address can complete a mandate excluding transaction costs.
of the Companys exposure to its net asset value form for the purpose.
Mandates may be obtained and is calculated on both a gross and commitment Contact Northern Trust International Fund As noted above, the AIFM does not employ any from Computershare Investor Services Guernsey Portfolio Total Return Combining the Portfolio method.
Under the gross method, exposure staff, however, the board of the AIFM has six Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Limited, c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, Capital Return the change in property value after represents the sum of the Companys positions individuals who are AIFM Remuneration Code Staff Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, St Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES on request.
Where dividends taking account of property sales, purchases and without taking account of any hedging or netting AIFM Code Staff, i. e. individuals whose activities Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3QL.
Additional are paid directly to shareholders bank accounts, capital expenditure in the period and Portfolio arrangements.
Under the commitment method, have a material impact on the risk profile of the information regarding the Company may also dividend vouchers are sent directly to shareholders Income Return net property income after exposure is calculated after certain hedging and be found at its website address which is: AIFM, or the AIFs that it manages.
deducting direct property expenditure, assuming netting positions are offset against each other.
year there were a further four individuals on portfolio income is re-invested.
the board who retired and also qualify as AIFM www.
co. uk The leverage limits are set by the AIFM and Code staff up to the dates of their retirement.
Net Gearing Calculated as net borrowings approved by the Board.
The AIFM is also required The aggregate remuneration for these ten gross borrowings less cash, excl swap valuation to comply with the gearing parameters set by the individuals, apportioned for the AIFM duties they divided by total assets less current liabilities excl Board in relation to borrowings.
have performed for the year 2016 is 232,000. cash, borrowing and swaps.
SWAP valuations at fair value are not considered relevant in gearing Remuneration AIFM Code Staff are monitored in respect of their calculations.
performance in line with the SLI Remuneration FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017 18 Policy which is designed to meet the regulatory The Companys AIFM, Standard Life Investments requirements of BIPRU and the AIFM Directive.
Corporate Funds Limited SLI CF, is subject The Remuneration Committees of SLI and Standard to the Remuneration requirements of the AIFM Life plc review and approve remuneration for AIFM Directive on a proportionate basis in respect Code Staff.
More information on the remuneration of its activities as AIFM for a range of Alternative policies of Standard Life plc are disclosed on the Investment Funds AIFs.
Total assets under Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar following web page: management of SLI CF were 15.69 billion at 31 December 2016, of which 8.46 billion of www.
com dotcom our-company assets were AIFs subject to the AIFM Directive.
page The NAV of the Company was 1.12 billion as at 20 April 2017 31 May 2017 31 August 2017 30 November 2017 28 February 2018 31 December 2016.
Announcement of Payment of 2017 Payment of 2017 Payment of 2017 third Payment of 2017 annual results first interim second interim interim dividend fourth interim dividend dividend dividend 21 June 2017 August 2017 Annual General Posting of Meeting Interim Report 86 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts 87
