NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS Continued Year ended Year ended 2.
RENTAL INCOME 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 000 000 On maturity, bank loans are recognised at par, Where a portion of an ineffective hedge qualifies The standard will be effective for annual periods which is equivalent to amortised cost.
Bank loans against the Groups criteria to be classified as beginning on or after 1 January 2018, and is required redeemed before maturity are recognised at an effective hedge that portion of the derivative to be applied retrospectively with some exemptions.
Rental income 68,573 69,558 amortised cost with any charges associated with instrument shall be accounted for as a separate The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact but it early redemptions being taken to the Statement and effective hedge instrument and treated as is not currently anticipated that this standard will of Comprehensive Income.
have any material impact on the Groups financial statements as presented for the current year.
Included within rental income is amortisation of lease premiums BHS occupied one of the Companys retail units at The Parade, Gains or losses arising on any derivative instrument q Derivative financial instruments or portion of a derivative instrument which is deemed and rent free periods granted.
Their lease contained rent free periods and fixed uplifts IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts to be ineffective will be recognised in profit or loss.
Due to BHS entering administration in the year, The Group uses derivative financial instruments Gains and losses, regardless of whether related to the lease was terminated resulting in a lease incentive asset of to hedge its risk associated with interest rate IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective or ineffective hedges, are taken to a reserve 2,426,000 being written off within rental income.
effective 1 January 2018, and endorsed by the EU created specifically for that purpose described in the 31 October 2016 specifies how and when an entity balance sheet as the Interest Rate Swap Reserve.
Derivative instruments are initially recognised should recognise revenue from contracts and in the Balance Sheet at their fair value split enhances the nature of revenue disclosures.
r New standards, amendments and between current and non-current.
Fair value interpretation not yet effective Year ended Year ended 3.
FEES is determined by reference to market values The Group notes lease contracts within the scope 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 for similar instruments.
Transaction costs are of IAS 17 are excluded from the scope of IFRS 15.
Rental income derived from operating leases is There are a number of new standards, amendments therefore out with the scope of IFRS 15.
The group and interpretations that have been issued but are Gains or losses arising on the fair value of cash flow therefore does not anticipate IFRS 15 having a not yet effective for this accounting year and have hedges in the form of derivative instruments are material impact on the Groups financial statement not been adopted early.
Those standards which may Investment management fee 8,870 8,832 taken directly to Other Comprehensive Income.
as presented for the current year.
affect the Group are listed below.
Such gains and losses are taken to a reserve created specifically for that purpose, described as the The group notes under specific circumstances, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Interest Rate Swap Reserve in the Balance Sheet.
certain elements of contracts the group may enter for example, rental guarantees provided when selling The Groups Investment Manager throughout the year was Standard to 100,000 per annum from 30 June 2015.
The total paid In July 2014, the IASB published the final version On termination the unrealised gains or losses a property potentially fall within the scope of IFRS 15.
Life Investments Corporate Funds Limited, who received an in relation to this fee in the year was 100,000 2015: 136,000. of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which replaces arising from cash flow hedges in the form of The group does not have any contracts in place at aggregate annual fee from the Group at an annual rate of 0.65 per Both fees are payable quarterly in arrears.
The Investment the existing guidance in IAS 39 Financial derivative instruments, initially recognised in 31 December 2016 it believes meet these specific cent of the Total Assets.
The Investment Manager is also entitled to Management agreement is terminable by either of the parties Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Other Comprehensive Income, are transferred criteria, but will review again at 31 December 2017. an administration fee which was reduced from 172,000 per annum to it on 12 months notice.
The IFRS 9 requirements represent a change to profit or loss.
from the existing requirements in IAS 39 in The standard permits a modified retrospective respect of financial assets.
The Group considers its interest rate swap qualifies approach.
Financial statements will be prepared for hedge accounting when the following criteria for the year of adoption from 1 January 2018 by The standard contains two primary measurement are satisfied: recognising a cumulative catch-up adjustment to Year ended Year ended categories for financial assets: amortised cost and 4.
A financial asset would be measured at The instrument must be related to an asset 000 000 amortised cost if it is held within a business model or liability: The group has not implemented the standard in whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect advance of the effective date and it does not intend DIRECT PROPERTY EXPENSES It must change the character of the interest contractual cash flows, and the assets contractual to do so.
rate by converting a variable rate to a fixed rate terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that Direct operating expenses arising from investment property that or vice versa: 3,716 3,915 are solely payments of principal and interest on IFRS 16 Leases generated rental income during the period: the principal outstanding.
All other financial assets It must match the principal amounts and maturity would be measured at fair value.
date of the hedged item: and IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 sets out the principle for the recognition, measurement, OTHER EXPENSES As a cash flow hedge the forecast transaction The standard eliminates the existing IAS 39 incurring interest payable on the bank loan that presentation and disclosure of leases for both the categories of held to-maturity, available-for-sale Professional fees incl valuation fees 2,547 2,886 Lessee and Lessor.
is subject to the hedge must be highly probable and loans and receivables.
and must present an exposure to variations in Movement in bad debt provision 75 132 cash flows that could ultimately affect the profit As at the date of authorisation of these financial For financial liabilities, IFRS 9 largely carries statements IFRS 16 has not yet been endorsed or or loss.
The effectiveness of the hedge must be forward without substantive amendment the Directors fees 215 196 capable of reliable measurement and must be adopted by the EU.
The impact of this standard guidance on classification and measurement from has not yet been assessed by the Group in full, assessed as highly effective on an ongoing basis Administration fee 100 136 IAS 39.
The main change is that, in cases where throughout the financial reporting periods for but the Group is aware lessor accounting remains the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, Administration and company secretarial fees 85 85 which the hedge was designated.
substantially unchanged and any impact is expected the part of a fair value change due to an entitys to be insignificant.
A full impact assessment will own credit is recorded in other comprehensive If a derivative instrument does not satisfy the Regulatory fees 277 318 however be concluded in due course.
income rather than in profit or loss.
Groups criteria to qualify for hedge accounting that Auditors remuneration for: instrument will be deemed as an ineffective hedge.
The standard introduces new requirements for Annual Improvements to IFRS hedge accounting that align hedge accounting Statutory audit 63 71 Should any portion of an ineffective hedge be more closely with risk management and directly related to an underlying asset or liability, In addition to the above, Annual Improvements Non audit services tax compliance and advisory services 60 establishes a more principles-based approach that portion of the derivative instrument should to IFRS 20122014 Cycle effective 1 January 2016 to hedge accounting.
The standard also adds be assessed against the Groups effective hedge have not been adopted early.
Other expenses 49 new requirements to address the impairment criteria to establish if that portion qualifies to be of financial assets and means that a loss event 3,362 3,669 recognised as an effective hedge.
will no longer need to occur before an impairment allowance is recognised.
This figure excludes Nil 2015: 25,000 payable to directors for additional work undertaken in relation to the debt refinancing.
This cost has been allocated to loan set up fees and will be amortised over the lifetime of the loans.
