NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS Continued Sensitivity analysis The table below presents the sensitivity of the valuation to changes in the most significant assumptions underlying the valuation of investment property.
The property portfolios fair value as at 31 December 2016 has The following disclosure is provided in relation to the adoption of been prepared adopting the following assumptions: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
All properties are deemed Level 3 Sector Assumption Movement Effect on valuation for the purposes of fair value measurement and the current use of That, where let, the Estimated Net Annual Rent after void and rent each property is considered the highest and best use.
There has been 50 basis points Decrease 34.
9m Capitalisation rate Industrial free period assumptions for each property, or part of a property, no transfers from Level 3 in the year.
The fair value of completed - 50 basis points Increase 42.4m reflects the terms of the leases as at the date of valuation.
If the investment property is determined using a yield methodology.
50 basis points Decrease 25.9m property, or parts thereof, are vacant at the date of valuation, the Under this method, a propertys fair value is estimated using explicit Office Capitalisation rate - 50 basis points Increase 31.9m rental value reflects the rent the Property Valuer considers would assumptions regarding the benefits and liabilities of ownership over be obtainable on an open market letting as at the date of valuation.
the assets life including an exit or terminal value.
As an accepted 50 basis points Decrease 42.6m Capitalisation rate method within the income approach to valuation, this method Retail - 50 basis points Increase 48.0m The Property Valuer has assumed that, where let, all rent reviews are involves the projection of a series of cash flows on a real property to be assessed by reference to the estimated rental value calculated in interest.
To this projected cash flow series, an appropriate, market- 50 basis points Decrease 15.2m accordance with the terms of the lease.
Also there is the assumption Leisure Capitalisation rate derived discount rate capitalisation rate is applied to establish the - 50 basis points Increase 9.1m that all tenants will meet their obligations under their leases and are present value of the cash inflows associated with the real property.
responsible for insurance, payment of business rates, and all repairs, The duration of the cash flow and the specific timing of inflows whether directly or by means of a service charge.
and outflows are determined by events such as rent reviews, lease renewal and related lease up periods, re-letting, redevelopment, The Property Valuer has not made any adjustments to reflect Investment property valuation process 10.
The appropriate duration is typically driven by any liability to taxation that may arise on disposal, nor any costs market behaviour that is a characteristic of the class of property.
associated with disposals incurred by the owner.
The Company owns 100 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital The valuations of investment properties are performed quarterly In the case of investment properties, periodic cash flow is typically of UK Commercial Property Finance Holdings Limited UKCFH, The Property Valuer assumes an initial yield in the region of 3 to 7 per estimated as gross income less vacancy, non-recoverable expenses, on the basis of valuation reports prepared by independent and a company incorporated in Guernsey whose principal business is cent, based on market evidence.
For the majority of the properties, collection losses, lease incentives, maintenance cost, agent and qualified valuers and reviewed by the Property Valuation that of a holding company.
with the reversionary yield being in the region of 4 to 7 per cent.
commission costs and other operating and management expenses.
The series of periodic net cash inflows, along with an estimate of The Property Valuer takes account of deleterious materials included The Company owns 100 per cent of the issued share capital of These reports are based on both: the terminal value anticipated at the end of the projection period, in the construction of the investment properties in arriving at its UK Commercial Property Estates Holdings Limited UKCPEH, is then discounted.
Set out below are the valuation techniques used estimate of Fair Value when the Investment Manager advises of a company incorporated in Guernsey whose principal business is for each property sector plus a description and quantification of the Information provided by the Investment Manager such as current the presence of such materials.
UKCPEH Limited owns 100 per cent of rents, terms and conditions of lease agreements, service charges key unobservable inputs relating to each sector.
There has been no the issued share capital of UK Commercial Property Estates Limited, The majority of the leases are on a full repairing basis and as such the change in valuation technique in the year.
This information is derived from the a company incorporated in Guernsey whose principal business is Group is not liable for costs in respect of repairs or maintenance to its Investment Managers financial and property management that of an investment and property company.
UKCPEH also owns investment properties.
systems and is subject to the Investment Managers overall 100% of Brixton Radlett Property Limited, a UK company, whose control environment.
principal business is that of an investment and property company.
Assumptions and valuation models used by the valuers the UKCFH owns 100 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of assumptions are typically market related, such as yields.
These are Fair Value at Range based on their professional judgment and market observation.
UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited UKCPH, a company Sector Valuation techniques Unobservable inputs 31 December 2016 m weighted average incorporated in Guernsey whose principal business is that of an The information provided to the valuers and the assumptions investment and property company.
Annual rent per sq ft 519 9 Industrial 405.9 Yield methodology and valuation models used by the valuers are reviewed by Capitalisation rate 4.7%7.1% 5.6% UKCFH owns 100 per cent of the issued share capital of UK the Investment Manager.
This includes a review of fair value movements over the period.
Commercial Property GP Limited, GP, a company incorporated Annual rent per sq ft 1558 38 263.9 Yield methodology Office in Guernsey whose principal business is that of an investment and Capitalisation rate 3.8%7.7% 5.4% Asset held for sale property company.
Annual rent per sq ft 2306 63 Retail 474.0 Yield methodology The asset shown on the Balance Sheet as held for sale at the year end Capitalisation rate 3.8%12.9% 5.5% UKCPT Limited Partnership, GLP, is a Guernsey limited is 13 Great Marlborough Street, London.
The asset is shown at fair partnership, and it holds a portfolio of properties.
UKCPH and GP, value in the Balance Sheet as a held for sale asset and continues to Annual rent per sq ft 1335 25 126.8 Yield methodology Leisure have a partnership interest of 99 and 1 per cent respectively in the Capitalisation rate 5.1%6 % 5.4% be valued by CBRE Limited using the method described in this note.
The GP is the general partner and UKCPH is a limited partner The held for sale asset is included in the investment property of the GLP.
Any unrealised gain and loss on this asset is shown in the investment property table and in the UKCFH owns 100 per cent of the issued share capital of UK consolidated statement of comprehensive income as gains losses Commercial Property Nominee Limited, a company incorporated in on investment properties.
Guernsey whose principal business is that of a nominee company.
The asset was sold by the Group on 13 January 2017 for a consideration of 30.5 million.
In addition the Group controls eight Jersey Property Unit Trusts JPUTs namely 176206 High Street Kensington Unit Trust wound up March 2017, Junction 27 Retail Unit Trust, Charles Darwin Retail Unit Trust, St Georges Leicester Unit Trust, Kew Retail Park Unit Trust, Pride Hill Retail Unit Trust, Riverside Mall Retail Unit Trust and Rotunda Kingston Property Unit Trust.
The principal business of the Unit Trusts is that of investment in property.
