SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors Corporate broker Auditor Bruno Angelici J. P. Morgan Cazenove Deloitte LLP Non-Executive Chairman 25 Bank Street 5 Callaghan Square Canary Wharf Cardiff Frank Condella London CF10 5BT, UK Non-Executive Vice Chairman E14 5JP, UK Bankers James Ward-Lilley Corporate broker Barclays Bank plc Chief Executive Officer Numis Securities Limited 28 Chesterton Road Andrew Derodra The London Stock Exchange building Cambridge Chief Financial Officer 10 Paternoster Square CB4 3AZ, UK London Trevor Phillips Legal advisors EC4M 7LT, UK Chief Operations Officer and President Clifford Chance ofUSOperations Public relations 10 Upper Bank Street Susan Foden Consilium Strategic Consulting Canary Wharf Non-Executive Director and 41 Lothbury London SeniorIndependent Director London E14 5JJ, UK EC2R 7HG, UK Neil Warner Vectura Group plc Non-Executive Director Registrars Registered office Computershare Investor Services plc One Prospect West Dr Per-Olof Andersson PO Box 82 Chippenham Non-Executive Director The Pavilions Wiltshire Thomas Werner Bridgwater Road SN14 6FH, UK Non-Executive Director Bristol BS99 7NH, UK Company Secretary John Murphy Forward-looking statement This Annual Report and Accounts contains forward-looking statements, including statements about the discovery, development and commercialisation of products.
Various risks may cause Vecturas actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including: adverse results in clinical development programmes: failure to obtain patent protection for inventions: commercial limitations imposed by patents owned or controlled by third parties: dependence upon strategic alliance partners to develop and commercialise produces and services: difficulties or delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to market products and services resulting from development efforts: the requirement for substantial funding to conduct research and development and to expand commercialisation activities: and product initiatives by competitors.
As a result of these factors, prospective investors are cautioned not to rely on any forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any intention or obligation to update orrevise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
136 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Design Port olio is committed to planting trees or every corporate communications project, in association with Trees or Cities.
Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc One Prospect West Chippenham Wiltshire SN14 6FH United Kingdom T 44 0 1249 667700 F 44 0 1249 667701 www.
com Registered in England and Wales Number: 03418970 The Groups commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report, which has been printed on FSC certified uncoated Edixion offset.
It was printed in the UK using environmental Waterless printing technology, and vegetable-based inks were used throughout.
Both the manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are FSC chain-of-custody certified.
