202 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Note million million Interest and similar income 948.1 839.3 Interest and similar expense 425.7 384.5 Net interest income 3 522.4 454.8 Fee and commission income 28.8 27.4 Fee and commission expense 1.2 1.2 Net fee and commission income 4 27.6 26.2 Other operating income 5 40.3 41.3 Fair value losses on financial instruments 13 8.9 0.4 Other income 59.0 67.1 Total income 581.4 521.9 Operating expenses 6 349.4 353.6 Profit before tax from operating activities 232.0 168.3 Impairment 8 37.6 30.3 Profit before tax 194.4 138.0 Taxation 9 54.3 26.8 Profit for the year 140.1 111.2 Profit attributable to equity owners 140.1 111.2 Profit for the year 140.1 111.2 29.4 Basic earnings per share pence 10 22.9 Diluted earnings per share pence 10 29.1 22.7 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 203 I Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Note million million Profit for the year 140.1 111.2 Other comprehensive income Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss: Movements in revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets: Change in fair value 30 44.4 25.1 Income statement transfers in respect of disposals 30 38.3 33.6 Taxation 30 1.7 1.2 4.4 7.3 Movements in cash flow hedge reserve: Effective portion of changes in fair value taken to other comprehensive income 30 36.1 13.2 Net income statement transfers 30 13.6 5.1 Taxation 30 6.3 1.6 16.2 6.5 Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax 11.8 13.8 Total comprehensive income for the year 128.3 97.4 Total comprehensive income attributable to equity owners 128.3 97.4 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
204 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2016 2015 Note million million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 786.3 888.6 Derivative financial instruments 13 104.2 82.3 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 14 635.6 614.5 Loans and advances to customers 15 32,367.1 27,109.0 Debt securities 0.7 1.1 33,003.4 27,724.6 Available-for-sale financial assets 16 858.8 1,296.9 Intangible assets 19 80.6 64.4 Tangible fixed assets 20 77.4 74.6 Deferred tax assets 21 23.0 38.0 Other assets 22 121.9 59.6 Total assets 35,055.6 30,229.0 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 205 I Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2016 2015 Equity and liabilities Note million million Liabilities Deposits from banks 23 2,132.5 1,298.7 Customer deposits 24 28,106.3 25,144.9 Derivative financial instruments 13 229.7 156.0 Debt securities in issue 25 2,600.0 2,039.4 Provisions 26 8.5 8.4 Other liabilities 27 291.4 235.0 Current tax liabilities 16.7 6.3 Total liabilities 33,385.1 28,888.7 Equity Share capital and share premium 28 654.6 654.6 Other equity instruments 29 384.1 156.5 Other reserves 30 27.4 15.6 Retained earnings 31 659.2 544.8 Total equity 1,670.5 1,340.3 Total liabilities and equity 35,055.6 30,229.0 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 202 to 256 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board and were signed on its behalf on 27 February 2017.
Glen Moreno Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE Chairman Chief Executive 206 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December Attributable to equity holders Share capital and share Other equity Other Retained premium instruments reserves earnings Total equity million million million million million Balance at 1 January 2016 654.6 156.5 15.6 544.8 1,340.3 Comprehensive income Profit for the year 140.1 140.1 Other comprehensive income Net movement in revaluation reserve in respect of 4.4 4.4 available-for-sale financial assets Net movement in cash flow hedge reserve 16.2 16.2 Total other comprehensive expense 11.8 11.8 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 11.8 140.1 128.3 Transactions with equity holders Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 20.8 20.8 Distribution to Additional Tier 1 security holders 12.6 12.6 Tax attributable to Additional Tier 1 securities 2.5 2.5 Purchase of own shares 7.3 7.3 Issue of Additional Tier 1 securities 227.6 227.6 Share based payments charge for the year 12.8 12.8 Deferred tax on share based payments 0.3 0.3 Total transactions with equity holders 227.6 25.7 201.9 Balance at 31 December 2016 654.6 384.1 27.4 659.2 1,670.5 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Further details of movements in the Groups share capital and reserves are provided in notes 28 to 31.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 207 I Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December Attributable to equity holders continued Share capital and share Other equity Other Retained premium instruments reserves earnings Total equity million million million million million Balance at 1 January 2015 654.6 156.5 1.8 434.5 1,243.8 Comprehensive income Profit for the year 111.2 111.2 Other comprehensive income Net movement in revaluation reserve in respect of 7.3 7.3 available-for-sale financial assets Net movement in cash flow hedge reserve 6.5 6.5 Total other comprehensive expense 13.8 13.8 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 13.8 111.2 97.4 Transactions with equity holders Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 6.2 6.2 Distribution to Additional Tier 1 security holders 12.6 12.6 Tax attributable to Additional Tier 1 securities 2.6 2.6 Purchase of own shares 5.0 5.0 Share based payments charge for the year 20.0 20.0 Deferred tax on share based payments 0.3 0.3 Total transactions with equity holders 0.9 0.9 Balance at 31 December 2015 654.6 156.5 15.6 544.8 1,340.3 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
208 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Note million million Profit before taxation 194.4 138.0 Adjustments for: Changes in operating assets 35 a 5,387.3 4,037.3 Changes in operating liabilities 35 b 3,957.3 3,146.4 Non-cash and other items 35 c 19.5 62.4 Tax paid 22.1 5.0 Net cash used in operating activities 1,277.2 695.5 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of securities 670.0 659.2 Proceeds from sale and redemption of securities 1,150.0 900.5 Purchase and investment in intangible assets 31.6 29.5 Purchase of tangible fixed assets 8.6 10.2 Disposal of tangible fixed assets 0.7 Net cash provided by investing activities 440.5 201.6 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 11 20.8 6.2 12.6 Distributions to Additional Tier 1 security holders 12.6 Net proceeds from issue of debt securities 1,278.9 1,047.2 Repayments of debt securities in issue 718.3 601.9 Purchase of own shares 7.3 5.0 Issue of Additional Tier 1 securities net of costs 227.6 Net cash provided by financing activities 747.5 421.5 Change in cash and cash equivalents 89.2 72.4 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,461.4 1,533.8 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 35 d 1,372.2 1,461.4 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 209 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies 1.1 Reporting entity 1.4 Presentation of information Virgin Money Holdings UK plc the Company is a public Presentation of risk and capital management limited company incorporated and registered in England disclosures and Wales.
The registered office is Jubilee House, Gosforth, Disclosures under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, NE3 4PL.
concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to financial instruments and under IAS 1 Presentation of The Company was incorporated on 4 August 1995 as a financial statements concerning objectives, policies and private limited company with registered number 03087587. processes for managing capital have been included within On 24 July 2014 the Company was re-registered as a public the audited sections of the Risk Management Report.
marked as audited these are covered by the Independent The Company is the parent entity and the ultimate controlling Auditors Report.
party of the Virgin Money Group the Group, which consists of the Company and its subsidiaries.
1.5 Basis of consolidation The Group consists of the Company and its subsidiaries.
1.2 Basis of preparation The subsidiaries are listed in note 2 of the parent company The Group consolidated financial statements, which should financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements be read in conjunction with the Directors Report, have comprise the financial statements of the Group.
been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance Entities are regarded as subsidiaries where the Group has the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns as adopted by the EU, including interpretations issued from its involvement with the investee and the ability to affect by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, and with those those returns.
Inter-company transactions and balances are parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies eliminated upon consolidation.
Subsidiaries are consolidated reporting under IFRS.
from the date on which control is transferred to the Group The Directors have reviewed the strategic plan which shows and are deconsolidated from the date that power over an the financial position, cash flow, liquidity and capital forecasts investee, exposure or rights to variable returns and the ability for the Group.
The Directors are confident that the Group to affect these returns ceases.
Accounting policies are applied will have sufficient resources to meet its liabilities as they consistently across the Group.
fall due and to continue to operate for a period of at least 12 The Virgin Money Foundation, launched in August 2015, is months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
managed and controlled by a Board of independent Trustees, Accordingly the Directors believe that it remains appropriate such that the Group has no power over the Foundation to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
or, exposure or ability to affect variable returns.
The Foundation is therefore not consolidated in the financial 1.3 Changes in accounting policy statements of the Group.
New standards, amendments to standards and Special Purpose Vehicles SPV are entities created to interpretations adopted accomplish a narrow and well defined objective.
For the In 2016, the Group adopted a number of minor interpretations Group this is the securitisation of mortgage assets.
An SPV is and amendments to standards, which were endorsed for consolidated if the Group has control over the SPV, through adoption by the EU, and mandatory for annual reporting its exposure to variable returns from its involvement in the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
These included SPV and the ability to affect those returns through its power amendments published through the Annual Improvements over the entity.
to IFRSs 2010-2012 and 2012-2014 cycles, in addition to a number of stand-alone amendments.
1.6 Basis of measurement The adoption of these interpretations and amendments The financial statements have been prepared under the to standards or interpretations had an insignificant historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of impact on the Group and did not result in any change in derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale and other accounting policies.
assets held at fair value through profit or loss.
A summary of New accounting standards issued by the IASB that are the material accounting policies of the Group are included relevant to the Group and effective in future periods are within note 1.9.
Policies which are relevant to the financial presented in note 38. statements as a whole are set out below.
210 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued The accounting policies have been applied consistently to all Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent periods presented in these financial statements.
with the internal reporting provided to the Board.
The Group Executive Committee Management has been determined to 1.7 Client money be the chief operating decision maker for the Group.
The Groups unit trust management and investment b Interest income and expense intermediary subsidiaries administer money on behalf of Interest income and expense are recognised in the income some clients in accordance with the Client Money Rules of the statement for all instruments measured at amortised cost Financial Conduct Authority.
Client money is not recognised using the effective interest rate method.
in the balance sheet or in the notes to the financial statements This method calculates the amortised cost of a financial asset as the Group is not the beneficial owner.
or liability, and allocates the interest income or expense over 1.8 Foreign currency translation the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments The Groups financial statements are presented in Sterling, through the expected life of the financial instrument or, where which is the functional currency of the Company, all of its appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of subsidiaries and the SPVs included within the consolidated the financial asset or liability.
The Group estimates cash flows financial statements.
considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument Foreign currency transactions are translated into functional for example prepayment options but does not consider currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of future credit losses.
The calculation includes all amounts the transactions.
Monetary items denominated in foreign received or paid by the Group that are an integral part of the currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the balance overall return, direct incremental transaction costs related to sheet date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the acquisition or issue of a financial instrument and all other the restatement and settlement of such transactions are premiums and discounts.
recognised in the income statement, except when recognised Once a financial asset or group of similar financial assets in other comprehensive income if relating to a qualifying has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, cash flow hedge or available-for-sale assets.
Non-monetary interest income is recognised using the rate of interest used items which are assets or liabilities which do not attach to a to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring right to receive or an obligation to pay currency measured the impairment loss.
at historical cost and denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Interest receivable or payable on derivatives, whether in Non-monetary items measured at fair value are translated at economic or accounting hedges, is recorded on an accruals the exchange rate at the date of valuation.
Where these are basis in interest receivable or payable.
Interest on availableheld at fair value through the income statement, exchange for-sale AFS debt securities is recorded in interest receivable differences are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
using the effective interest rate method.
c Fees and commissions 1.9 Accounting policies Where they are not included in the effective interest rate The accounting policies of the Group are set out below.
calculation, fees and commissions are recognised on an accruals basis when the service has been received or provided.
a Operating segments Loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn The Group determines operating segments according to down are deferred together with related incremental direct similar economic characteristics and the nature of its products costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective and services in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
interest rate on the loan.
Management reviews the Groups internal reporting based around these segments in order to assess performance and Fee income from general insurance and life insurance policies allocate resources.
is recognised in full on the effective date of commencement or renewal of the related policies to reflect underlying contracts Segment performance is evaluated based on underlying profit with product providers.
or loss and is measured consistently with underlying profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements income tax d Other operating income is unallocated.
Segment results are regularly reviewed and Other operating income comprises the fair value for services, reported to the Board of Directors to allocate resources to net of value added tax, rebates and discounts.
Other segments and to assess their performance.
operating income is attributable to the sale and management Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 211 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued of stocks and shares ISAs, pensions, authorised unit trusts and are held separately from those of the Group in independently other financial services products.
Other operating income from sales of units in managed funds Leases is recognised daily based on the average volume of funds If the lease agreement in which the Group is a lessee transfers under management.
the risks and rewards of the asset, the lease is recorded as a finance lease and the related asset is capitalised.
At inception, Fees charged to register with Virgin Money Giving Limited the asset is recorded at the lower of the present value of the are recognised from the date on which recovery is reasonably minimum lease payments or fair value and is depreciated over certain.
The commission charged on donations and event the estimated useful life.
The lease obligations are recorded fees is recognised from the date donations and event as borrowings.
fees are transacted on the website.
Both of these income streams contribute towards costs incurred by Virgin Money If the lease does not transfer the risks and rewards of the Giving Limited.
asset, the lease is recorded as an operating lease.
Other income includes commission on donations and other Operating lease payments are charged to profit or loss on sundry income.
a straight line basis over the lease term unless a different systematic basis is more appropriate.
Where an operating e Total operating expenses lease is terminated before the lease period has expired, any Operating expenses are recognised on an accruals basis as payment required to be made to the lessor in compensation services are provided.
Included within the employee benefits is charged to profit or loss in the period in which expense are employee share based payments.
The accounting termination is made.
policy in relation to share based payments is set out in policy f. f Share based payments Staff costs The Group puts in place share schemes for employees to The Group accounts for components of employee costs on the reward strong long-term business performance and to following bases: incentivise growth for the future.
Short-term employee benefits The Group engages in equity settled share based payment Short term employee benefits include salaries and social transactions in respect of services received from certain of security costs and are recognised over the period in which the its employees.
employees provide the services to which the payments relate.
For these transactions the grant date fair value of the award Cash bonus awards are recognised to the extent that the is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding Group has a present obligation to its employees that can increase in equity over the period that the employees become be measured reliably and are recognised over the period unconditionally entitled to the awards.
of service that employees are required to work to qualify The grant date fair value of the award is determined using for the payment.
valuation models which take into account the terms and Other long-term employee benefits conditions attached to the awards.
Inputs into valuation models may include the exercise price, the risk-free interest Other long-term employee benefits include deferred cash rate, the expected volatility of the Companys share price and bonus awards.
Deferred cash bonus awards are recognised other various factors which relate to performance conditions at the present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
These costs are recognised over the period of service that employees are required to work to qualify for the payment.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and Retirement benefit obligations non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met such A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based plan into which the Group pays fixed contributions and has on the number of awards that do meet the related service and no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
Contributions are recognised as staff expenses in profit or g Impairment losses loss in the periods during which related employee services are fulfilled.
The Group assesses its financial assets or groups of financial assets for objective evidence of impairment at each balance The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised if a loss event or for its Directors and employees.
The assets of the schemes events has occurred after initial recognition, and on or before 212 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued the balance sheet date, that has an impact on the estimated is measured as the difference between the asset carrying future cash flows of the financial assets or groups of financial amount and the present value of the estimated future cash assets that can be reliably measured.
Losses incurred as a flows excluding future credit losses that have not been result of events occurring after the balance sheet date are not incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective recognised in these financial statements.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an impairment allowance and the amount Assets held at amortised cost of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of When a loan or receivable is uncollectible, it is written off impairment exists individually for financial assets that are against the related provision for loan impairment.
Such individually significant, and individually or collectively for loans are written off after all the necessary procedures financial assets that are not individually significant.
have been completed and the amount of the loss has been Objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired includes determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously observable data that comes to the attention of the Group written off are recognised directly in the income statement.
about the following loss events: If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively there is evidence of the customer or issuer experiencing to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised financial difficulty: such as an improvement in the customers credit rating, the there is a breach of contract, such as a default or previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting delinquency in repayments: the impairment allowance.
The amount of the reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
the customer is granted a concession that would otherwise not be considered: A provision is also made in the case of accounts, which may not currently be in arrears, where losses may have the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial been incurred but not yet recognised.
An increased level of reorganisation: provision is held for accounts where an impairment trigger the disappearance of an active market for that financial event has occurred which includes accounts benefiting asset because of financial difficulties: and from forbearance and those in arrears.
Refer to the Risk Management Report for details of the forbearance policy.
observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a portfolio Available-for-sale financial assets of assets since the initial recognition of those assets, The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the there is objective evidence that a financial asset, or group individual financial assets in the portfolio, including: of financial assets are impaired.
The amount of the loss is - there are adverse changes in the payment status of measured as the difference between the assets acquisition borrowers in the portfolio: and cost less principal repayments and amortisation and the current fair value.
The amount of the impairment loss is - economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the recognised in profit or loss.
This includes cumulative gains and assets in the portfolio.
losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income If the Group determines that no objective evidence of which are recycled from other comprehensive income to the impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, income statement.
whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase and collectively assesses them for impairment.
In assessing can be objectively related to an event occurring after collective impairment the Group uses statistical modelling of the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the historic trends to assess the probability of a group of financial impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
Impairment assets going into default and the subsequent loss incurred.
losses recognised in profit or loss on equity instruments are Regular model monitoring is performed to ensure model not reversed through profit and loss.
h Taxation Assets that are individually assessed and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not Taxation comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax included in a collective assessment of impairment.
and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that they relate to items recognised directly in equity If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is based on the and receivables has been incurred, the amount of the loss Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 213 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted available-for-sale: or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any held to maturity: or adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Group has adopted the Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks issued by HM Revenue and Customs.
Purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences profit or loss, held to maturity and available-for-sale are between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for recognised on the trade date, the date on which the Group financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates Loans and receivables at amortised cost that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when The Groups loans and advances to banks and customers and they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or asset backed securities for which there is no active market substantively enacted by the reporting date.
are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, tax are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable credits and deductible temporary differences, to the extent payments that are not quoted in an active market, whose that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available recoverability is based solely on the credit risk of the customer against which they can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are and where the Group has no intention of trading the loan reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent or receivable.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit at fair value including direct and incremental transaction will be realised.
Subsequent recognition is at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any provision i Earnings per share for impairment.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company Available-for-sale financial assets by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative assets outstanding during the period excluding own shares held in that are either designated as available-for-sale or are assets employee benefit trusts or held for trading.
that do not meet the definition of loans and receivables The diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the and are not derivatives or assets held at fair value through profit or loss that is attributable to ordinary shareholders and profit or loss.
These are principally, but not exclusively, the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding investment securities intended to be held for an indefinite for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which period of time which may be sold in response to a need for comprise share options granted to employees.
liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
They are initially measured at fair value including For the calculation of diluted earnings per share the weighteddirect and incremental transaction costs.
Fair values are average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to obtained from quoted market prices in active markets and, assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, if where these are not available, from valuation techniques any, that arise in respect of share options and rewards granted including discounted cash flow models refer to policy m. to employees.
The number of shares that could have been With the exception of certain unquoted equity instruments acquired at the average annual share price of the Companys measured at cost less impairment because their fair value shares based on the monetary value of the subscription cannot be measured reliably, subsequent measurement is rights attached to outstanding share options and awards at fair value, with changes in fair value being recognised is determined.
This is deducted from the number of shares in other comprehensive income except for impairment issuable under such options and awards to leave a residual losses and translation differences, which are recognised bonus amount of shares which are added to the weightedin profit or loss.
Upon derecognition of the asset, or where average number of ordinary shares in issue, but no adjustment there is objective evidence that the investment security is made to the profit attributable to equity shareholders.
is impaired, the cumulative gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are removed from other j Financial instruments comprehensive income and recycled to profit or loss.
Financial assets Held to maturity financial assets Management determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Held to maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that the Group Financial assets can be classified in the following categories: has the ability and intention to hold to maturity.
They loans and receivables: are initially measured at fair value including direct and 214 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued incremental transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement is and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
the life of the agreements using the effective interest rate No financial assets were classified as held to maturity during method.
Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in either the current or prior year.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities This category consists of derivative financial assets.
Assets Derecognition is the point at which the Group removes an in this category are carried at fair value.
The fair values of asset or liability from its balance sheet.
The Groups policy is to derivative instruments are calculated by discounted cash derecognise financial assets only when the contractual right flow models using yield curves that are based on observable to the cash flows from the financial asset expires or when the market data or are based on valuations obtained from Group transfers the financial assets to another party provided counterparties.
Gains and losses arising from the changes the transfer of the asset also transfers the right to receive in the fair values are recognised in the income statement or the cash flows of the financial asset or where the Group has other comprehensive income refer policy n. transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Where the transfer does not result in the Group transferring The fair values of quoted investments in active markets are the right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, but it based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset does result in the Group assuming a corresponding obligation is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes to pay the cash flows to another recipient, the financial assets fair value using valuation techniques.
These include the are also accordingly derecognised.
The Group derecognises use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash financial liabilities only when the obligation specified in the flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation contract is discharged, converted to shares, cancelled or techniques commonly used by market participants.
has expired or is transferred to a third party.
There were no Financial liabilities transactions in the year where the Group transferred financial assets that should have been derecognised in their entirety.
The Group measures all of its financial liabilities at amortised cost, other than derivatives and those instruments which have k Loans and advances to banks been designated as part of a hedging relationship refer policy The Groups loans and advances to banks are classified as n. Borrowings, including deposits and debt securities in issue loans and receivables.
are recognised initially at fair value, being the issue proceeds net of premiums, discounts and transaction costs incurred.
l Loans and advances to customers All borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost The Groups loans and advances to customers are classified as using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is loans and receivables.
adjusted for the amortisation of any premiums, discounts and m Available-for-sale financial assets transaction costs.
The amortisation is recognised in interest expense and similar charges using the effective interest rate The Groups debt securities and equity instruments are method.
The Group does not hold any financial liabilities classified as available-for-sale assets.
Debt securities are classified as held for trading.
principally available-for-sale as they are intended to be held for an indefinite period of time but may be sold in response to a Offsetting financial instruments need for liquidity, changes in interest rates or exchange rates.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount Equity instruments are classified as available-for-sale because reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally they do not meet the definition of loans and receivables, have enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there no defined maturity dates and are not derivatives or assets is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and held at fair value through profit or loss.
n Derivative financial instruments and hedge Sale and repurchase agreements accounting Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos are The Group is authorised to undertake the following types of reclassified in the financial statements as assets pledged derivative financial instrument transactions for non-trading when the transferee has the right by contract or custom to purposes: cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps, equity sell or repledge the collateral.
The counterparty liability is swaps, interest rate caps, forward rate agreements, options, included in deposits from banks or customer deposits, as foreign exchange contracts and similar instruments.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell The Groups derivative activities are entered into for the reverse repos are recorded as loans and advances to banks purpose of matching or eliminating risk from potential or customers as appropriate.
The difference between sale movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 215 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued equity exposures inherent in the Groups assets, liabilities and The most frequently used fair value hedges are: positions.
All derivative transactions are for economic hedging hedging the interest rate risk of a portfolio of prepayable purposes and it is decided at the outset which position the fixed rate assets with interest rate derivatives.
This solution derivative will be hedging.
Derivatives are reviewed regularly is used to establish a macro fair value hedge for derivatives for their effectiveness as hedges and corrective action taken, hedging fixed rate mortgages: if appropriate.
Derivatives are measured initially at fair value hedging the interest rate risk of a portfolio of fixed rate and subsequently remeasured to fair value.
Fair values are liabilities with interest rate derivatives.
This solution is obtained from quoted market prices in active markets and, used to establish a macro fair value hedge for derivatives where these are not available, from valuation techniques hedging fixed rate savings: including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.
Where derivatives are not designated as part of hedging the interest rate risk of a portfolio of nonan accounting hedge relationship, changes in fair value prepayable fixed rate assets with interest rate derivatives.
are recorded in the income statement.
Where derivatives This solution is used to establish a macro fair value hedge are designated within accounting hedge relationships, the for fixed rate investments: and treatment of the changes in fair value depends on the nature hedging the interest rate and foreign currency exchange of the hedging relationship as explained below.
risk of non-prepayable, foreign currency denominated fixed Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this rate assets or liabilities on a one-for-one basis with fixed way provided certain criteria are met.
The Group documents floating or floating fixed cross currency interest rate swaps.
at the inception of the accounting hedge relationship the link between the hedging instrument and the hedged item as well o Securitisation transactions as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking Certain Group companies have issued debt securities in various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its order to finance specific loans and advances to customers.
assessment both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis Both the debt securities in issue and the loans and advances of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are to customers remain on the Group balance sheet within the highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair values or appropriate balance sheet headings unless: cash flows of hedged items.
The Group designates certain a fully proportional share of all or of specifically identified derivatives as either: cash flows have been transferred to the holders of the Cash flow hedges debt securities, in which case that proportion of the assets are derecognised: A cash flow hedge is used to hedge exposures to variability in cash flows, such as variable rate financial assets and liabilities.
substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the The effective portion of changes in the derivative fair value is assets have been transferred, in which case the assets are recognised in other comprehensive income, and recycled to fully derecognised: and the income statement in the periods when the hedged item a significant proportion of the risks and rewards have been will affect profit and loss.
Interest rate derivatives designated transferred, in which case the assets are recognised only to as cash flow hedges primarily hedge the exposure to cash flow the extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
vulnerability from forecast loans and advances to customers.
The fair value gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is The Group has also entered into self-issuance of securitised recognised immediately in profit or loss.
debt which may be used as collateral for repurchase or similar transactions.
Investments in self-issued debt and Fair value hedges the equivalent deemed loan, together with the related A fair value hedge is used to hedge exposures to variability income, expense and cash flows, are not recognised in the in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities, such as financial statements.
Changes in fair value of derivatives that are Debt securities in issue designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair Issued securities are classified as financial liabilities where value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the contractual arrangements result in the Group having an the hedged risk.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for obligation to deliver either cash or another financial asset hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of to the security holder, or to exchange financial instruments the hedged item is amortised to the income statement over under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the the period to maturity.
Issued securities are classified as equity where they meet the definition of equity and confer a residual interest in the Groups assets on the holder of the securities.
216 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued Financial liabilities are carried at amortised cost using the it is probable that the asset created will generate future effective interest rate method.
Equity instruments are initially economic benefits: and recognised at net proceeds, after deducting transaction costs the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
and any related income tax.
Appropriations to holders of Following the initial recognition of development expenditure, equity securities are deducted from equity, net of any related the cost is amortised over the estimated useful lives of the income tax, as they become irrevocably due to the holders of assets created.
Amortisation commences on the date that the the securities.
asset is brought into use.
Securitisation is a means used by the Group to fund an element of its mortgage portfolio.
These securitised advances Internally generated intangible assets relate to computer are subject to non-recourse finance arrangements.
These software and core banking platforms.
advances have been transferred at their principal value Computer software to Special Purpose Vehicles SPV and have been funded Costs incurred in acquiring and developing computer software through the issue of amortising mortgage backed securities for internal use are capitalised as intangible assets where to investors.
the software leads to the creation of an identifiable nonAs discussed in note 1.5, the Group controls the securitisation monetary asset and it is probable that the expected future SPVs and therefore consolidates the assets and liabilities of economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow the securitisation SPVs, on a line by line basis.
to the Group from its use for a period of over one year.
The software is classified as an intangible asset where it is not an p Funding for Lending Scheme integral part of the related hardware and amortised over its The Group participates in the Funding for Lending Scheme estimated useful life on a straight line basis which is generally FLS.
The scheme allows the Group to receive Treasury bills in 3 to 10 years.
return for eligible collateral, including approved portfolios of loans and advances to customers.
Costs associated with maintaining software are expensed as they are incurred.
Receipt of Treasury bills under the FLS does not involve the substantial transfer of the risks and rewards on the collateral, Core banking platforms or the right to receive its related cash flows, hence the Core banking platforms primarily represent the construction derecognition criteria outlined in policy j are not satisfied.
of core operating platforms, which are internally generated.
Therefore the collateral assets will continue to be recognised Core banking platforms are amortised on a straight line basis in the financial statements and the Treasury bills are not over 3 to 10 years.
Impairment of intangible assets In the event that Treasury bills are utilised for repo Intangible assets are assessed for indications of impairment transactions, the related collateral assets are categorised as at each balance sheet date, or more frequently where pledged assets and the associated liability to the counterparty required by events or changes in circumstances.
If indications is recognised in the financial statements.
of impairment are found, these assets are subject to an q Intangible assets and amortisation impairment review.
The impairment review compares the Intangible assets purchased separately from a business carrying value of the assets with their recoverable amounts, combination are capitalised at their cost and amortised which are defined as the higher of the fair value less costs from the date from which they become available for use to sell and their value in use.
Fair value less costs to sell is over their useful economic life which is generally 3 to 10 the amount at which the asset could be sold in a binding years.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition agreement in an arms length transaction.
Value in use is are capitalised at their fair value where this can be measured calculated as the discounted cash flows generated as a result reliably in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
of the assets continued use including those generated by its ultimate disposal, discounted at a market rate of interest on a Expenditure incurred in relation to scoping, planning and pre-tax basis.
researching the build of an asset as part of a project is expensed as incurred.
Where impairments are indicated, the carrying values of intangible assets are written down by the amount of the Development expenditure incurred on a project is capitalised impairment and the charge is recognised in the income only if the following criteria are met: statement in the period in which it occurs.
A previously an asset is created that can be identified: recognised impairment charge on an asset may be reversed in full or in part through the income statement where a change Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 217 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued in circumstances leads to a change in the estimates used to on an asset may be reversed in full or in part through the income determine its recoverable amount.
The carrying value will only statement where a change in circumstances leads to a change be increased to the value at which it would have been held had in the estimates used to determine its recoverable amount.
The the impairment not been recognised.
carrying value will only be increased to the value at which it would have been held had the impairment not been recognised.
r Tangible fixed assets and depreciation s Other assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment, as appropriate.
Other assets include prepayments and other amounts the Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and Group is due to receive from third parties in the normal the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working course of business.
condition for its intended use.
Additions and subsequent t Deposits from banks expenditure are included in the assets carrying value or are Deposits by banks are initially measured at fair value, which is recognised as a separate asset only when they improve the normally the proceeds received net of any directly attributable expected future economic benefits to be derived from the transaction costs incurred.
Subsequent measurement is at asset.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is provided using the straight line method to u Customer deposits allocate costs less residual values over estimated useful Customer deposits are initially measured at fair value, which is lives, as follows: normally the proceeds received.
Subsequent measurement is at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Freehold property 50-100 years v Provisions Leasehold property Unexpired period of the lease Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising from past events where it is more likely than not that an outflow of Plant and leasehold improvements 5-30 years resources will be required to settle the obligations and they Computer equipment 3-5 years can be estimated reliably.
Office equipment 3-10 years Provisions for levies are recognised when the conditions that Motor vehicles 4 years trigger the payment of the levy are met.
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, and w Other liabilities adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Where Deferred income represents amounts received in advance the cost of freehold land can be identified separately from of the Group providing services, and will be recognised as buildings, the land is not depreciated.
income in profit or loss when the services have been provided.
Impairment of tangible fixed assets Other creditors represent amounts the Group is due to pay to Tangible fixed assets are assessed for indications of third parties in the normal course of business.
These include impairment at each balance sheet date, or more frequently expense accruals, which have been incurred, but not yet billed.
where required by events or changes in circumstances.
If Accrued expenses are amounts that the Group is due to pay to indications of impairment are found, these assets are subject third parties in the normal course of business.
The impairment review compares the carrying value of the assets with their recoverable amount, x Share capital and share premium which are defined as the higher of the fair value less costs Share capital to sell and their value in use.
Fair value less costs to sell is the amount at which the asset could be sold in a binding The financial instruments issued by the Company are treated agreement in an arms length transaction.
Value in use is as equity i. e. forming part of shareholders funds only to the calculated as the discounted cash flows generated as a result extent that they meet the following two conditions: of the assets continued use including those generated by its they include no contractual obligations upon the Company ultimate disposal, discounted at a market rate of interest on a to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange pre-tax basis.
financial assets or financial liabilities with another party Where impairments are indicated, the carrying values of fixed under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to assets are written down by the amount of the impairment and the Group: and the charge is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it occurs.
A previously recognised impairment charge 218 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued where the instrument will or may be settled in the aa Contingent liabilities Companys own equity instruments, it is either a nonContingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable depends upon the outcome of uncertain future events or number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a are present obligations where the outflows of resources derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging are uncertain or cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but number of its own equity instruments.
are disclosed unless they are remote.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of ab Fair value of financial assets and liabilities issue are classified as a financial liability.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell Share issue costs an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date in the Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new principal, or in its absence, the most advantageous market shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of to which the Group has access at that date.
The fair value tax, from the proceeds.
of a liability reflects its non-performance risk the risk the Dividends and appropriations Group will not fulfil an obligation, including the Groups own credit risk.
Dividends are recognised in equity in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders or paid.
For the majority of instruments, fair value is determined with reference to quoted prices in an active market.
A market is Share premium regarded as active if transactions for the asset or liability take Share premium substantially represents the aggregate of place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing all amounts that have ever been paid above par value to the information on an ongoing basis.
Company when it has issued Ordinary and Deferred Shares.
Where quoted prices are not available, fair value is based upon Certain expenses in relation to the issue of share capital cash flow models, which use wherever possible independently can be offset against the share premium account.
These sourced observable market parameters such as interest rate expenses must be the incremental expenses arising on issue yield curves, currency rates and option volatilities.
valuation technique incorporates all the factors that market y Other equity instruments participants would take into account in pricing a transaction and is discounted at a risk free rate.
Issued financial instruments are recognised as equity where there is no contractual obligation to deliver either cash or Refer to note 33 for a description of different levels within the another financial asset.
The proceeds are included in equity, fair value hierarchy.
Levels are reviewed at each balance sheet net of transaction costs.
Distributions and other returns to date and this determines where transfers between levels equity holders are treated as a deduction from equity.
z Other reserves The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument Revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale at initial recognition is normally the transaction price i. e. financial assets the fair value of consideration given or received.
The Group does not apply a credit valuation adjustment CVA or The revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale debit valuation adjustment DVA to reflect the credit risk financial assets represents the unrealised change in of its derivative exposures as the Groups portfolio is fully the fair value of available-for-sale investments since collateralised.
If an asset or a liability measured at fair value has a bid Cash flow hedge reserve price and an ask price, the Group measures assets and long For derivatives designated in a cash flow hedge, the effective positions at bid price and liabilities and short positions portion of changes in fair value is recognised in the cash flow at an ask price.
hedge reserve and recycled to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 219 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued profiles and post-promotional retention rates based on 1.10 Critical estimates and judgements previous customer experience.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Management consider the estimated life to be the most IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates significant measure of performance in assessing the and assumptions that affect the application of accounting unsecured effective interest calculation.
The accuracy policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at of the effective interest rate would be affected by altered the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts customer behaviour giving rise to actual cash flows that differ of income and expenses during the reporting period.
Although to expected cash flows.
For unsecured loans to the extent these estimates are based on managements best knowledge that that estimated life differs by - one month, the value of the amount, actual results ultimately may differ from of such loans on the balance sheet would be 2.1 million those estimates.
2015: 1.1 million higher or 2.1 million 2015: 1.1 million The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or lower respectively.
complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 2016 financial statements were as follows: b Impairment of loans and receivables Individual impairment losses on secured loans and advances a Effective interest rates are calculated based on an individual valuation of the IAS 39 requires interest earned from mortgages and credit underlying asset.
Collective impairment losses on loans and cards to be measured under the effective interest rate advances are calculated using a statistical model.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly The key assumptions within the impairment models are discounts estimated future cash flows through the expected monitored regularly to ensure the impairment allowance life of the financial instrument to the net carrying value is entirely reflective of current portfolio experience.
Key amount of the financial instrument.
The accuracy of the assumptions used within the models are based on various effective interest rate can be affected when actual cash flows behavioural and arrears status segments, which vary by vary from the initial estimation of future cash flows.
In that exposure type: circumstance the carrying value of the financial instrument is adjusted to reflect the revisions to estimated cash flows with The secured impairment model is based on measuring the adjustment made to profit and loss.
the probability of default: the probability of this default resulting in possession: and the subsequent loss incurred in For secured lending management model future expected cash the event of possession.
flows for each tranche of lending by year of lending, product and LTV banding.
In determining the future cash flows The unsecured impairment model is based on measuring management must use judgement to estimate the average life the probability of default: the probability of this default of each tranche of lending.
Management estimate expected resulting in charge-off: and the subsequent loss incurred in repayment and redemption profiles of mortgage customers the event of charge-off.
based on previous customer behaviour, this incorporates The accuracy of the impairment calculation would therefore estimates of the proportion of borrowers expected to incur be affected by unanticipated changes to the economic early redemption charges.
environment and assumptions which differ from actual Management consider the estimated life to be the most outcomes.
For mortgage loan receivables to the extent that: significant estimate in the secured effective interest rate the loss given default differs by - 10%, for example calculation.
The accuracy of the estimated life would if the loss given default is 10% then it is increased to be affected by altered customer behaviour arising from 11%, the impairment allowance would be an estimated unexpected market movements.
For secured loans to the 0.3 million 2015: 0.3 million higher or 0.3 million 2015: extent that the estimated life differs by - one month, the 0.3 million lower respectively: value of such loans on the balance sheet would be 4.5 million 2015: 3.6 million higher or 4.6 million 2015: 3.7 million the level of house prices differs by - 10%, for example a lower respectively.
property value of 100,000 is increased to 110,000, the impairment allowance would be an estimated 1.3 million For unsecured lending management model future expected 2015: 1.3 million lower or 2.6 million 2015: 3.0 million cash flows for each tranche of lending by year of lending and higher respectively: product over the customer life, up to a maximum of seven years from origination.
In determining the future cash flows the emergence period of 6 months differs by - 3 management must use judgement to estimate the life of the months, the impairment allowance would be an estimated card relationship.
Management estimate customer behaviour 0.3 million 2015: 0.2 million higher or 0.3 million 2015: including card balance, transaction activity, repayment 0.2 million lower respectively.
220 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued For unsecured loans, to the extent that the loss given default d Deferred tax differs by - 10%, the impairment allowance would be Taxation involves estimation techniques to assess the an estimated 3.9 million 2015: 2.9 million higher or liability in terms of possible outcomes.
The assessment of the 3.9 million 2015: 2.9 million lower respectively, and to recoverability or otherwise of deferred tax assets is based the extent the emergence period of 6 months differs by -3 mainly on a determination of whether the relevant entity months, the impairment allowance would be an estimated will generate sufficient profits within 5 years to realise the 5.9 million 2015: 3.8 million higher or 5.9 million 2015: deferred tax assets.
This is reviewed at each reporting date by the Directors with a c Capitalisation and impairment of intangibles detailed exercise conducted to establish the validity of profit forecasts and other relevant information including timescales Intangibles are initially recognised when they are separable over which the profits are expected to arise and the deferred or arise from contractual or other legal rights, the cost can tax assets will reverse.
Deferred tax is determined using tax be measured reliably and, in the case of intangible assets rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the not acquired in a business combination, where it is probable balance sheet date and which are expected to apply when the that future economic benefits attributable to the assets will related deferred tax assets are realised or the deferred tax flow from their use.
Management review and monitor the liabilities are settled.
capitalisation of significant project development costs on a regular basis to ensure that they meet the recognition criteria The judgement required in the assessment of whether to for capitalisation of an intangible asset and to ensure the recognise deferred tax assets is set out in policy h. Based on costs are directly attributable to the individual projects where their assessment of future profitability and interpretation of an asset is under construction.
A review of capitalisation of the timing and level of reversal of existing taxable temporary intangibles has been undertaken to ensure these conditions differences, in line with relevant accounting standards, have been met.
the Directors conclude that a net deferred tax asset of 23.0 million 2015: 38.0 million should be recognised at the A review of intangible assets which are not yet in use for balance sheet date.
indications of impairment is undertaken at each reporting date.
If there are indicators of impairment, an estimate of e Fair value of financial assets and liabilities the recoverable amount is made.
The recoverable amount of Management must use judgement and estimates calculating the asset is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and fair value where not all necessary inputs are observable or its value in use.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the where factors specific to the Groups holdings need to be future cash flows both costs to complete and benefits post considered.
The accuracy of the fair value calculations would completion generated from the continuing use of the asset.
therefore be affected by unexpected market movements, If the carrying value of the asset is less than the greater of the inaccuracies within the models used compared to actual value in use and the fair value less costs to sell, an impairment outcomes and incorrect assumptions.
For example, to the charge is recognised.
extent the interest yield curve differs by - 10 bps, the net Through their assessment of intangible assets and review for impact on fair values of derivative financial instruments would impairment indicators Management have not identified any be an estimated increase of 33.1 million 2015: 23.5 million assets that have an impairment, therefore a nil impairment or decrease of 33.3 million 2015: 23.7 million respectively.
charge has been recognised 2015: nil.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 221 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2: Segmental analysis For Management reporting purposes, the Group is organised Financial services into the following business segments: Financial services include financial products offered Mortgages and savings: beyond the core banking products and include investments, international money transfers, travel money, pensions, life Credit cards: insurance, travel insurance, home insurance, motor insurance Financial services: and and pet insurance.
Central functions These business groupings reflect how the Group Executive Central functions provide shared support services to each of Committee, in its capacity as the chief operating decision the Groups business lines and Virgin Money Giving Limited maker for the Group, assesses performance and makes VMG.
These services include information technology and decisions regarding the allocation of resources to the property along with central services such as Risk, Finance, business on the basis of product and customers.
Internal and Human Resources and Management.
It is not the policy of the external sources of revenue are allocated to the appropriate Group to allocate the cost of these shared services to each business segment.
All depreciation and amortisation is allocated to the central functions business line.
Mortgages and savings The Group does not manage Treasury as a profit centre, and Mortgage products include residential and buy-to-let so the interest expense incurred from its Group funding and mortgages.
Savings products include ISAs, easy access, fixed liquidity operations has been allocated to the other business term accounts and current accounts.
Treasury is not engaged in trading activities.
Central Following a change in Management reporting of the financial functions segment assets and liabilities includes fixed assets performance and position of current accounts in 2016, these and treasury assets and liabilities.
are now reported within this business segment.
Previously Due to the nature of the Groups operations there are no these were reported within Current accounts, insurance and inter-segmental transactions investments renamed Financial services.
Credit cards Credit card products include balance transfer and retail credit cards.
222 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2: Segmental analysis continued Mortgages Financial Central Underlying 1 and savings Credit cards services functions basis total m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2016 Net interest income 383.0 136.0 519.0 Other income 2.0 17.7 37.5 10.7 67.9 Total underlying income 385.0 153.7 37.5 10.7 586.9 Total costs 97.4 37.8 15.6 185.2 336.0 Impairment 2.8 34.8 37.6 Underlying profit loss before tax 284.8 81.1 21.9 174.5 213.3 Segment assets 29,743.9 2,453.0 3.2 2,855.5 35,055.6 Segment liabilities 28,214.9 3.9 2.6 5,163.7 33,385.1 Mortgages Financial Central Underlying and savings Credit cards services functions basis total m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2015 Net interest income 358.5 97.6 456.1 Other income 2.5 18.0 36.6 10.3 67.4 Total underlying income 361.0 115.6 36.6 10.3 523.5 Total costs 92.7 37.1 16.7 186.0 332.5 Impairment 3.0 27.3 30.3 Underlying profit loss before tax 265.3 51.2 19.9 175.7 160.7 Segment assets 25,457.5 1,585.2 2.6 3,183.7 30,229.0 Segment liabilities 25,286.2 4.0 4.5 3,594.0 28,888.7 1 Current accounts are now included in the Mortgages and savings segment.
2 Current account balances of 230.3 million are now shown in the Mortgages and savings segment.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 223 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2: Segmental analysis continued Reconciliation of statutory results to underlying basis The underlying basis is the basis on which financial information is presented to the chief operating decision maker which excludes certain items included in the statutory results, of which further information is provided on pages 54 and 55.
The table below reconciles the statutory results to the underlying basis.
Adjusted for Fair value IPO losses on Statutory Share based Strategic Simplification financial Underlying results awards items costs instruments basis m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2016 Net interest income 522.4 3.4 519.0 Other income 59.0 8.9 67.9 Total income 581.4 3.4 8.9 586.9 Total operating expenses 349.4 2.0 5.8 5.6 336.0 Profit before tax from operating activities 232.0 2.0 2.4 5.6 8.9 250.9 Impairment 37.6 37.6 Profit before tax 194.4 2.0 2.4 5.6 8.9 213.3 Adjusted for Fair value IPO losses on Statutory Share based Strategic Simplification financial Underlying results awards items costs instruments basis m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2015 Net interest income 454.8 1.3 456.1 Other income 67.1 0.1 0.4 67.4 Total income 521.9 1.2 0.4 523.5 Total operating expenses 353.6 10.5 6.9 3.7 332.5 Profit before tax from operating activities 168.3 10.5 8.1 3.7 0.4 191.0 Impairment 30.3 30.3 Profit before tax 138.0 10.5 8.1 3.7 0.4 160.7 Geographical areas The Groups operating activities are exclusively in the UK.
224 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3: Net interest income 2016 2015 m m Interest and similar income: Loans and advances to customers 933.1 822.4 Loans and advances to banks 2.3 2.4 Interest receivable on loans and receivables 935.4 824.8 Available-for-sale financial assets 8.9 10.5 Cash and balances at central banks 3.8 4.0 Total interest and similar income 948.1 839.3 Interest and similar expense: Deposits from banks 7.6 6.8 Customer deposits 370.7 342.7 Debt securities in issue 40.6 29.0 Other 6.8 6.0 Total interest and similar expense 425.7 384.5 Net interest income 522.4 454.8 Interest accrued on individually impaired assets was 5.8 million 2015: 6.8 million.
Note 4: Net fee and commission income 2016 2015 m m Fee and commission income: On loans and advances to customers 19.5 21.0 Other fee and commission income 9.3 6.4 Total fee and commission income 28.8 27.4 Fee and commission expense: Other fee and commission expense 1.2 1.2 Net fee and commission income 27.6 26.2 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 225 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 5: Other operating income 2016 2015 m m Investment and protection income 31.7 31.5 Gains on sale of available-for-sale financial assets refer note 16 6.8 8.8 Other 1.8 1.0 Total other operating income 40.3 41.3 Note 6: Operating expenses 2016 2015 m m Staff costs: Wages and salaries 156.8 138.9 Social security costs 14.6 16.2 Other pension costs 10.7 10.6 Employee share option schemes 12.8 20.0 194.9 185.7 Premises and equipment: Hire of equipment 4.6 4.6 Rent and rates 14.3 14.0 18.9 18.6 Other expenses: Marketing costs 21.0 22.3 FSCS levy 7.8 12.5 Professional fees 13.7 10.7 Other 72.1 84.2 114.6 129.7 Depreciation and amortisation: Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 5.6 8.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 15.4 11.2 21.0 19.6 Total operating expenses 349.4 353.6 226 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6: Operating expenses continued Average headcount Retirement benefit obligations The monthly average number of persons including Directors The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes employed by the Group during the year was as follows: for its Directors and employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently 2016 2015 administered funds.
Full time 2,394 2,359 The Group made contributions of 10.7 million 2015: Part time 746 699 10.6 million during the year.
There were no contributions Total 3,140 3,058 overdue at the year end 2015: nil.
Fees payable to the auditors During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditors as detailed below: 2016 2015 m m Fees payable for the audit of the current year annual report and accounts 0.2 0.3 Fees payable for other services: Audit of the subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.6 Total audit fees 0.9 0.9 Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.2 Total audit and audit-related fees 1.1 1.1 Other non-audit fees: Other assurance services 0.1 0.2 Total other non-audit fees 0.1 0.2 Total fees payable to the auditors by the Group 1.2 1.3 All amounts are shown exclusive of VAT.
The following types of services are included in the categories listed above: Audit and audit-related fees This category includes fees in respect of the audit of the Groups annual financial statements and other services in connection with regulatory filings and services for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the financial statements.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 227 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7: Share based payments All share based payments charges relate to equity settled schemes.
The scheme details are summarised below.
1 2 Award plan Eligible employees Nature of award Vesting conditions Issue dates A Long-term incentive Selected senior Conditional share Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2015 & 2016 plan employees award circumstances and achievement of performance conditions B Deferred bonus Selected senior Deferred bonus Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2014, 2015 & share plan employees conditional share circumstances 2016 award C Phantom share Selected senior Deferred bonus Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2012 & 2013 award employees conditional share circumstances award D IPO incentive Selected senior Conditional share Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2013 scheme employees award circumstances E Recruitment award Two senior Conditional share Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2013 employees award circumstances F IPO share award All employees Conditional share Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2014 excluding the award circumstances Groups Executive Committee 1 All awards have vesting conditions and therefore some may not vest.
2 Issue dates show the year in which issues have been made under the relevant scheme.
There could be further issuances in future years under the scheme.
The terms of the equity settled schemes the Group operated during the year are as follows: A Long-term incentive plan LTIP B Deferred bonus share plan The LTIP introduced in 2014 is aimed at delivering shareholder The deferred bonus share plan is an equity settled scheme value by linking the receipt of shares to performance that is operated in conjunction with the short-term incentive measures that are based on delivering the Groups strategic plan for Executive Directors and other senior managers objectives over a 3 year period.
Awards are made within limits of the Group.
set by the rules of the plan.
Share awards for the deferred element of 2016 bonuses will be During 2016, selected senior employees of the Group were granted under this scheme in 2017. granted up to a maximum of 1,572,717 Ordinary Shares During 2016, selected senior employees of the Group were under the LTIP scheme.
This number includes awards granted up to a maximum of 1,695,266 Ordinary Shares under granted to senior employees who joined the Company in the scheme.
This number includes awards granted to senior 2016 in recognition of outstanding awards over shares in employees who joined the Company in 2016 in recognition of their previous employing company that lapsed on accepting outstanding awards over shares in their previous employing employment with the Group.
Awards granted under the LTIP company that lapsed on accepting employment with the have performance and service conditions, with vesting dates Group.
Awards granted under the scheme have service prescribed for each participant.
conditions, with vesting dates prescribed for each participant.
The weighted-average fair value of awards granted during The weighted-average fair value of awards granted during 2016 was 3.64 based on market prices at the date of grant.
2016 was 3.64 based on market prices at the date of grant.
228 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7: Share based payments continued C Phantom share award E Recruitment award In 2012 a notional phantom share award for senior Under the scheme the participants received shares in 2014, individuals was established.
During 2014 an approved change 2015 and 2016.
The final tranche of share awards made under to existing awards under this scheme resulted in a change in this scheme vested in March 2016.
No awards were granted in accounting treatment from a cash settled to an equity settled 2016 2015: none under this scheme.
F IPO share award The fair value of the converted award was recalculated and is On listing, the Group granted all employees below Executive being recognised over the remaining vesting period within the level a one-off share award.
A small number of senior income statement through to 2018.
No awards were granted employees received an award over Ordinary Shares of either in 2016 2015: none under this scheme.
All other employees received an award over Ordinary Shares with a value of 1,000.
The majority of D IPO incentive scheme awards vested on the first anniversary of the listing.
Certain The IPO incentive scheme was introduced in December 2013 awards granted to senior employees were subject to different for selected senior employees.
Participants were entitled vesting schedules, and holding periods, to comply with the to receive shares in the event of a listing.
The award was a PRA Remuneration Code.
No awards were granted in 2016 pre-determined percentage of the listing value, which was 2015: none under this scheme.
then converted to a number of Ordinary Shares based on the listing price.
The final tranche of share awards made under this scheme vested in December 2016.
No awards were granted in 2016 2015: none under this scheme.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 229 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7: Share based payments continued Movement in share options and conditional shares Ordinary Shares Former Chairmans interest Long-term Deferred Phantom in share incentive bonus share share IPO incentive Recruitment IPO share 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 options plan plan award scheme award award Shares in existence at 1 January 625,328 1,399,453 1,157,800 3,061,820 332,334 175,810 139,041 2016 Granted in year 1,572,717 1,695,266 Exercised or vested in year 98,349 754,417 950,550 305,676 175,810 68,885 Forfeited in year 222,483 66,790 26,658 1,236 Outstanding 31 December 625,328 2,651,338 2,098,649 2,044,480 68,920 2016 Of which exercisable 625,328 Ordinary Shares Former Chairmans interest Long-term Deferred Phantom in share incentive bonus share share IPO incentive Recruitment IPO share 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 options plan plan award scheme award award Shares in existence at 1 January 625,328 14,918 3,120,900 664,658 327,760 1,773,880 2015 Granted in year 1,727,770 2,032,683 Exercised or vested in year 95,075 761,247 332,324 151,950 1,431,866 Forfeited in year 233,242 128,554 59,080 202,973 Outstanding 31 December 625,328 1,399,453 1,157,800 3,061,820 332,334 175,810 139,041 2015 Of which exercisable 625,328 1 This scheme was set up for the previous Chairman, Sir David Clementi.
All share options granted under the scheme had vested prior to 1 January 2015.
No share options have been exercised during 2016 or 2015.
The weighted-average exercise price for options outstanding at 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016 was 2.15.
The options outstanding will expire 10 years from the date of listing if not exercised.
230 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 8: Allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables 2016 2015 On On secured unsecured On secured On unsecured loans loans Total loans loans Total m m m m m m At 1 January 8.7 31.2 39.9 7.6 23.0 30.6 Advances written off 0.8 32.3 33.1 1.9 26.0 27.9 Gross charge to the income statement 2.7 40.6 43.3 3.0 34.2 37.2 As at 31 December 10.6 39.5 50.1 8.7 31.2 39.9 Of the total allowance in respect of loans and advances to customers, 49.4 million 2015: 38.8 million was assessed on a collective basis.
During the year, sales of credit card receivables which had previously been written-off resulted in net recoveries of 5.7 million 2015: 6.9 million.
The full amount of the proceeds have been recognised as a gain and the net charge to the income statement is summarised below.
2016 2015 m m Gross charge to the income statement 43.3 37.2 Debt sale recoveries 5.7 6.9 Net charge to the income statement 37.6 30.3 Note 9: Taxation A Analysis of the tax charge for the year 2016 2015 m m UK corporation tax Current tax on profit for the year 40.3 13.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.4 Current tax charge 39.9 13.6 Deferred tax refer note 21 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 14.0 15.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 0.7 Reduction in UK corporation tax rate 0.2 2.5 Deferred tax charge to the income statement 14.4 13.2 Tax charge 54.3 26.8 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 231 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 9: Taxation continued Analysis of tax charge recognised in Other Comprehensive Income: 2016 2015 m m Current tax Available-for-sale financial assets 2.1 Cash flow hedge 4.9 Deferred tax Available-for-sale financial assets 1.7 0.9 Cash flow hedge 1.4 1.6 Total credit 4.6 2.8 B Factors affecting the tax charge for the year A reconciliation of the charge that would result from applying the standard UK corporation tax rate to the profit before tax to the actual tax charge for the year is given below: 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 194.4 138.0 Tax charge at standard tax rate of 20% 2015: 20.25% 38.9 27.9 Factors affecting charge: Disallowed items 1.8 1.5 Bank corporation tax surcharge 12.5 Non-taxable income 0.8 UK corporation tax rate change 0.2 2.5 Deferred tax charge in respect of share schemes 1.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 0.7 Total tax charge 54.3 26.8 During the year the Group resolved an open HMRC enquiry relating to the tax treatment of certain funding transactions dating back to 2009.
A payment of 2.1 million was made to HMRC in final and full settlement.
This has resulted in a prior year credit of 0.2 million in the year to 31 December 2016.
2 Act 2015 was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
This reduced the main rate of corporation tax to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 and to 18% with effect from 1 April 2020.
A further reduction in the main corporation tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020 was announced in the 2016 Budget and substantively enacted in the Finance Act 2016.
The corporation tax surcharge for banks was introduced from 1 January 2016.
The surcharge imposes an 8% charge on the banking profits of the Group less a 25 million allowance against those profits.
232 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10: Earnings per share 2016 2015 m m Profit attributable to equity shareholders basic and diluted 140.1 111.2 Distributions to Additional Tier 1 security holders net of tax 10.1 10.0 Profit attributable to equity holders for the purposes of basic and diluted EPS 130.0 101.2 2016 2015 Number Number of shares of shares million million Weighted-average number of ordinary shares in issue basic 442.8 441.0 Adjustment for share options and awards 4.7 4.7 Weighted-average number of ordinary shares in issue diluted 447.5 445.7 Basic earnings per share pence 29.4 22.9 Diluted earnings per share pence 29.1 22.7 Basic earnings per share has been calculated after deducting 1.7 million 2015: 1.8 million ordinary shares representing the Groups holdings of own shares in respect of employee share schemes.
Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31 December 2016 none were anti-dilutive 2015: nil.
Note 11: Dividends The 2016 interim dividend of 1.6p per ordinary share, amounting to 7.1 million, was paid in September 2016 and a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 3.1 pence per Ordinary Share amounting to 13.7 million, was paid in May 2016.
These dividends were deducted from retained profits in the current year.
The Directors have recommended for approval at the 2017 AGM the payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 of 3.5p per ordinary share, amounting to 15.5 million.
If approved, this final dividend will be paid on 10 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 6 April 2017.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 do not reflect this final dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the year ending 31 December 2017.
An interim dividend for 2015 of 1.4 pence per Ordinary Share amounting to 6.2 million, was paid in October 2015.
Under the trust deed of the Employee Benefit Trust EBT, a standing waiver is in force in respect of any dividends declared on shares held by the EBT.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 233 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 12: Analysis of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement basis Derivatives Derivatives designated not ashedging instruments Held at Availabledesignated amortised Loans and for-sale as hedging Fair value Cash flow cost receivables securities instruments hedges hedges Total m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2016 Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 786.3 786.3 Derivative financial instruments 18.5 21.0 64.7 104.2 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 635.6 635.6 Loans and advances to customers 32,367.1 32,367.1 Debt securities 0.7 0.7 Available-for-sale financial assets 858.8 858.8 Other assets 68.8 68.8 Total financial assets 33,858.5 858.8 18.5 21.0 64.7 34,821.5 Non financial assets 234.1 Total assets 35,055.6 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 2,132.5 2,132.5 Customer deposits 28,106.3 28,106.3 Derivative financial instruments 22.9 206.8 229.7 Debt securities in issue 2,600.0 2,600.0 Other liabilities 189.5 189.5 Total financial liabilities 33,028.3 22.9 206.8 33,258.0 Non financial liabilities 127.1 Total liabilities 33,385.1 Equity 1,670.5 Total liabilities and equity 35,055.6 234 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 12: Analysis of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement basis continued Derivatives Derivatives designated not ashedging instruments Held at Availabledesignated amortised Loans and for-sale as hedging Fair value Cash flow cost receivables securities instruments hedges hedges Total m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2015 Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 888.6 888.6 Derivative financial instruments 18.3 63.5 0.5 82.3 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 614.5 614.5 Loans and advances to customers 27,109.0 27,109.0 Debt securities 1.1 1.1 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,296.9 1,296.9 Other assets 14.6 14.6 Total financial assets 28,627.8 1,296.9 18.3 63.5 0.5 30,007.0 Non financial assets 222.0 Total assets 30,229.0 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 1,298.7 1,298.7 Customer deposits 25,144.9 25,144.9 Derivative financial instruments 15.4 139.6 1.0 156.0 Debt securities in issue 2,039.4 2,039.4 Other liabilities 155.1 155.1 Total financial liabilities 28,638.1 15.4 139.6 1.0 28,794.1 Non financial liabilities 94.6 Total liabilities 28,888.7 Equity 1,340.3 Total liabilities and equity 30,229.0 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 235 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 13: Derivative financial instruments As at 31 December 2016 As at 31 December 2015 Contract Contract notional Asset Liability notional Asset Liability amount fair value fair value amount fair value fair value m m m m m m Derivatives in accounting hedge relationships Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Interest rate derivatives 21,584.8 21.0 206.8 23,421.6 63.5 139.6 21,584.8 21.0 206.8 23,421.6 63.5 139.6 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: Interest rate derivatives 1,287.0 369.7 0.5 1.0 Currency derivatives 520.3 64.7 Total derivative assets liabilities 23,392.1 85.7 206.8 23,791.3 64.0 140.6 in accounting hedge relationships Derivatives in economic hedging relationships but not in accounting hedge relationships Interest rate derivatives 7,549.6 13.2 14.8 3,651.4 16.8 15.4 Currency derivatives 56.0 3.4 3.8 Equity and other options 149.5 1.9 4.3 58.2 1.5 Total derivative assets liabilities 7,755.1 18.5 22.9 3,709.6 18.3 15.4 in economic hedging relationship but not in accounting hedge relationships Total recognised derivative 31,147.2 104.2 229.7 27,500.9 82.3 156.0 assets liabilities The principal amount of the contract does not represent the Groups real exposure to credit risk which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group should the counterparty default.
To reduce credit risk the Group uses a variety of credit enhancement techniques such as netting and collateralisation, where security is provided against the exposure.
Further details are provided in the Risk Management Report.
Hedged cash flows For designated cash flow hedges the following table shows when the Groups hedged cash flows are expected to occur and when they will impact income: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 9.2 5.5 In one to five years 22.3 9.8 Total 31.5 15.3 236 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 13: Derivative financial instruments continued Gains losses from derivatives and hedge accounting 2016 2015 m m Gain from fair value hedge accounting: Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 69.9 53.7 Fair value movement attributable to hedged risk 81.8 50.7 11.9 3.0 Loss from cash flow hedges 13.6 5.1 Fair value losses gains from other derivatives 7.2 1.7 Loss from derivatives and hedge accounting 8.9 0.4 1 Gains or losses from fair value hedges can arise where there is an IAS 39 hedge accounting relationship in place and either: the fair value of the derivative was not exactly offset by the change in fair value attributable to the hedged risk: or the derivative was designated in or dedesignated from the IAS 39 hedge accounting relationship and in the following months leads to amortisation of existing balance sheet positions.
2 Other derivatives are those used for economic hedging but which are not in an IAS 39 hedge accounting relationship.
Note 14: Loans and advances to banks 2016 2015 m m Balances within securitisation vehicles 354.3 384.3 Money market placements with banks 33.0 97.1 Other lending to banks 248.3 133.1 Total loans and advances to banks 635.6 614.5 Note 15: Loans and advances to customers 2016 2015 m m Advances secured on residential property not subject to securitisation 19,375.2 17,389.9 Advances secured on residential property subject to securitisation 4,907.8 3,670.4 24,283.0 21,060.3 Residential buy-to-let loans not subject to securitisation 5,468.4 4,401.9 Total loans and advances to customers secured on residential property 29,751.4 25,462.2 Unsecured receivables not subject to securitisation 2,486.6 1,610.0 Total loans and advances to customers before allowance for impairment losses 32,238.0 27,072.2 Allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables refer note 8 50.1 39.9 Total loans and advances to customers excluding portfolio hedging 32,187.9 27,032.3 Fair value of portfolio hedging 179.2 76.7 Total loans and advances to customers 32,367.1 27,109.0 The fair value of portfolio hedging represents an accounting adjustment which offsets the fair value movement on derivatives designated in IAS 39 hedge accounting relationships with the mortgage portfolio.
Such relationships are established to protect the Group from interest rate risk on fixed rate products.
See the Risk Management Report for further details.
For collateral held in respect of the values included in the table above, refer to the Risk Management Report.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 237 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 16: Available-for-sale financial assets 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 1,296.9 1,539.6 Additions 670.0 659.2 Disposals sales and redemptions 1,111.1 858.5 1 Reclassification of equity investments 1.3 Exchange differences 0.1 0.7 Changes due to amortisation and accrued interest 11.6 9.6 Net gains losses on changes in fair value 14.5 34.4 At 31 December 858.8 1,296.9 1 Represents investments in unquoted equity securities relating to the Groups participation in banking and credit card operations, previously recognised within other assets.
Gains on sale of available-for-sale securities amounted to 6.8 million 2015: 8.8 million.
Analysis of the composition of debt securities categorised as available-for-sale financial assets is set out in the Risk Management Report on page 162.
All assets have been individually assessed for impairment and following this assessment nowrite down of assets was required.
Note 17: Collateral pledged and received The Group receives and accepts collateral in the form At 31 December 2016 cash collateral of 235.0 million of cash and marketable securities in respect of the had been pledged by the Group, comprising 181.1 million following transactions: recognised within loans and advances to banks and 53.9 million within Other assets 2015: 94.6 million, derivatives: comprising 94.3 million recognised within loans and sale and repurchase and reverse sale and repurchase advances to banks and 0.3 million within Other assets agreements: and and 14.0 million 2015: 23.8 million has been received as cash collateral by the Group and recognised within secured loans.
Collateral in respect of derivatives is subject to the standard At 31 December 2016 available-for-sale financial assets of industry terms of ISDA Credit Support Annex.
This means that 10.6 million 2015: nil are pledged as collateral in respect of securities received or given as collateral can be pledged or derivative transactions.
sold during the term of the transaction but must be returned on maturity of the transaction.
The terms also give each At 31 December 2016 loans and advances of 2,302.3 million counterparty the right to terminate the related transactions 2015: 755.0 million are pledged as collateral in respect of upon the counterpartys failure to post collateral.
secured loans and sale and repurchase agreements under terms that are usual and customary for such activities.
238 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 18: Securitisation Assets and liabilities of the SPVs included in these consolidated financial statements comprise: 2016 2015 m m Assets Derivative financial instruments 64.5 Loans and advances to customers 4,907.8 3,670.4 Loans and advances to banks 354.3 384.3 Other assets 0.1 0.3 Total assets 5,326.7 4,055.0 Liabilities Debt securities in issue 2,294.2 1,741.9 Deposits by banks 0.4 13.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 Other liabilities 3.4 3.1 Total liabilities 2,298.1 1,758.2 The following table sets out the carrying amount of financial assets that did not qualify for derecognition and their associated liabilities.
Where relevant, the table also sets out the net position of the fair value of financial assets where the counterparty to the associated liabilities has recourse only to the financial assets.
2016 2015 m m Carrying amount of transferred assets 4,907.8 3,670.4 Fair value of transferred assets 4,982.7 3,728.4 Carrying amount of associated liabilities 2,294.2 1,741.9 Fair value of associated liabilities 2,300.1 1,740.0 There were no transactions in the year where the Group transferred financial assets that should have been derecognised in their entirety.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 239 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 19: Intangible assets Core Core deposit banking intangible Software platform Total m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2015 4.8 82.0 19.9 106.7 Additions 27.9 1.6 29.5 Disposals 24.8 24.8 At 31 December 2015 4.8 85.1 21.5 111.4 Additions 31.6 31.6 Disposals 2.1 2.1 At 31 December 2016 4.8 114.6 21.5 140.9 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 2015 3.7 56.9 60.6 Charge for the year 0.3 8.6 2.9 11.2 Disposals 24.8 24.8 At 31 December 2015 3.4 40.7 2.9 47.0 Charge for the year 1.4 10.4 3.6 15.4 Disposals 2.1 2.1 At 31 December 2016 4.8 49.0 6.5 60.3 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2016 65.6 15.0 80.6 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2015 1.4 44.4 18.6 64.4 240 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 20: Tangible fixed assets Plant, equipment fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings vehicles Total m m m Cost: At 1 January 2015 61.2 41.6 102.8 Additions 2.1 8.1 10.2 Disposals 10.2 10.2 At 31 December 2015 63.3 39.5 102.8 Additions 1.8 6.8 8.6 Disposals 0.6 3.0 3.6 At 31 December 2016 64.5 43.3 107.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: At 1 January 2015 7.3 22.6 29.9 Depreciation charge for the year 2.2 6.2 8.4 Disposals 10.1 10.1 At 31 December 2015 9.5 18.7 28.2 Depreciation charge for the year 0.1 5.5 5.6 Disposals 0.5 2.9 3.4 At 31 December 2016 9.1 21.3 30.4 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2016 55.4 22.0 77.4 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2015 53.8 20.8 74.6 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 241 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 21: Deferred tax 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax assets liabilities : Accelerated capital allowances 12.9 15.1 Revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets 2.6 Cash flow hedge reserve 5.2 3.8 Change in accounting basis on adoption of IFRS 4.0 4.8 Tax losses carried forward 7.3 18.0 Other temporary differences 4.2 4.3 Fair value adjustments on acquisition of Northern Rock 1.6 Total deferred tax assets 23.0 38.0 The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets in respect of gross unused tax losses of 31.2 million 2015: 31.2 million.
The movement in the net deferred tax balance is as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 38.0 50.2 Income statement charge credit refer note 9 : Accelerated capital allowances 2.2 8.0 Tax losses carried forward 10.7 20.1 Other temporary differences 1.5 1.1 14.4 13.2 Amounts charged credited to equity: Available-for-sale financial assets 1.7 0.9 Cash flow hedges 1.4 1.6 Adjustments relating to share based payments 0.3 0.3 0.6 1.0 At 31 December 23.0 38.0 Note 22: Other assets 2016 2015 m m Trade debtors 17.7 9.7 Prepayments and accrued income 27.9 22.4 Other 76.3 27.5 Total other assets 121.9 59.6 Included within Other assets are amounts receivable from clearing houses on centrally cleared derivative financial instruments of 50.7 million 2015: 0.2 million recorded on a net basis.
242 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 23: Deposits from banks 2016 2015 m m Liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 850.0 1,274.9 Secured loans 1,268.0 Other deposits from banks 14.5 23.8 Total deposits from banks 2,132.5 1,298.7 Note 24: Customer deposits 2016 2015 m m Savings and investment accounts 27,762.7 24,914.6 Personal current accounts 343.6 230.3 Total customer deposits 28,106.3 25,144.9 Note 25: Debt securities in issue Secured Unsecured Total m m m At 1 January 2015 1,594.1 1,594.1 Repayments 601.9 601.9 Issues 750.0 298.9 1,048.9 Other movements 0.3 1.4 1.7 At 31 December 2015 1,741.9 297.5 2,039.4 Repayments 798.1 798.1 Issues 1,278.9 1,278.9 Revaluations 73.0 73.0 Other movements 1.5 8.3 6.8 At 31 December 2016 2,294.2 305.8 2,600.0 Other movements comprise unamortised issue costs and hedge accounting adjustments.
On 16 April 2015, the Group issued 5 year Medium Term Notes with a nominal value of 300 million at a coupon of 2.25% per annum.
The notes were issued as part of the Groups 3 billion Global Medium Term Note programme.
On 8 June 2015, the Group raised 750 million from institutional investors through the issuance of Residential Mortgage Backed Securities in the Gosforth Funding 2015-1 transaction in Sterling.
On 25 January 2016, the Group raised 803 million from institutional investors through the issuance of Residential Mortgage Backed Securities in the Gosforth Funding 2016-1 transaction in Euro, US Dollars and Sterling.
On 9 May 2016, the Group raised 474 million from institutional investors through the issuance of Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS in the Gosforth Funding 2016-2 transaction in Euro and Sterling.
For all RMBS funding raised in currencies other than Sterling, the Group enters into cross-currency derivatives which swap the foreign currency liabilities into Sterling.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 243 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26: Provisions FSCS Other Total m m m At 1 January 2016 6.6 1.8 8.4 Provisions applied 6.7 1.1 7.8 Charge for the year 7.8 0.1 7.9 At 31 December 2016 7.7 0.8 8.5 The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS is the UKs statutory compensation fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms and pays compensation if a firm is unable to pay claims against it.
The FSCS is funded by levies on the authorised financial services industry.
Each deposit-taking institution contributes towards the FSCS levies in proportion to their share of total protected deposits on 31 December of the year preceding the scheme year, which runs from 1 April to 31March.
The FSCS can only raise a levy within its scheme year which commences 1 April and under IFRIC 21 Levies the Group recognises its FSCS provision in the scheme year itself.
Following the default of a number of deposit takers in 2008, the FSCS borrowed funds from HM Treasury to meet the compensation costs for customers of those firms.
At 31 March 2016, the end of the latest FSCS scheme year for which it has published accounts, the principal balance outstanding on these loans was 15,655 million 31 March 2015: 15,798 million.
Although it is anticipated that the substantial majority of this loan will be repaid from funds the FSCS receives from asset sales, surplus cash flow or other recoveries in relation to the assets of the firms that defaulted, any shortfall will be funded by deposittaking participants of the FSCS.
The amount of future levies payable by the Group depends on a number of factors including the amounts recovered by the FSCS from asset sales, the Groups participation in the deposit-taking market at 31 December, the level of protected deposits and the population of deposit taking participants.
Note 27: Other liabilities 2016 2015 m m Trade creditors and accruals 59.0 55.5 Deferred income 3.0 5.0 Accrued interest 127.2 131.1 Other liabilities 102.2 43.4 Total other liabilities 291.4 235.0 Deferred income represents income advanced from partners that will be recognised in future periods.
Accrued interest primarily represents interest which has accrued on savings and investment accounts.
244 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 28: Share capital and share premium 2016 2015 m m Share capital 0.1 0.1 Share premium 654.5 654.5 Total share capital and share premium 654.6 654.6 Issued and fully paid share capital 2016 2016 2015 2015 Number of shares Number of shares Ordinary Shares of 0.0001 each At 1 January 443,711,458 44,371 441,933,180 44,193 Issued during year 1,230,550 123 1,778,278 178 At 31 December 444,942,008 44,494 443,711,458 44,371 Deferred Shares of 0.001 each At 1 January and at 31 December 10,052,161 10,052 10,052,161 10,052 The following describes the rights attaching to each share class at 31 December 2016: Ordinary Shares The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Group.
All Ordinary Shares in issue in the Company rank equally and carry the same voting rights and the same rights to receive dividends and other distributions declared or paid by the Company.
Deferred Shares As set out in the Articles of Association adopted on listing and pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act in respect of shares held in own shares, the Deferred Shares have no voting or dividend rights and, on a return of capital on a winding up, have no valuable economic rights.
No application has been made or is currently intended to be made for the Deferred Shares to be admitted to the Official List or to trade on the London Stock Exchange or any other investment exchange.
The Deferred Shares are held in treasury.
This is to ensure that the aggregate nominal value of the Companys share capital will be not less than 50,000, which is the minimum level of nominal share capital required by the Companies Act for a company to be established as a public limited company.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 245 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29: Other equity instruments 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 156.5 156.5 Additional Tier 1 securities issued in the year net of issue costs 227.6 At 31 December 384.1 156.5 The Company issued Fixed Rate Resettable Additional Tier 1 their first reset dates on 10 November 2021 and 31 July AT1 securities on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange of 2019 respectively: 230.0 million on 10 November 2016 and 160.0 million on interest on the securities will be due and payable only at the 31 July 2014.
The issues are treated as equity instruments sole discretion of the Company, and the Company has sole in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: and absolute discretion at all times and for any reason to Presentation with the proceeds included in equity, net cancel in whole or in part any interest payment that would of transaction costs of 5.9 million 2015: 3.5 million.
otherwise be payable on any interest payment date: Dividends and other returns to equity holders are treated the securities are perpetual with no fixed redemption date asadeduction from equity.
and are repayable, at the option of the Company, all but not The principal terms of the AT1 securities in issue are part on the first reset date or any reset date thereafter.
In described below: addition, the AT1 securities are redeemable, at the option of the securities constitute direct, unsecured and the Company, in whole for certain regulatory or tax reasons.
subordinated obligations of the Company and rank pari Any optional redemption requires the prior consent passu with holders of other Tier 1 instruments and the of the PRA: and holders of that class or classes of preference shares but all AT1 securities will be converted into Ordinary Shares rank junior to the claims of senior creditors: of the Company, at a pre-determined price, should the the securities bear a fixed rate of interest from the issue Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of the Group fall below 7.0% date of 8.750% and 7.875% from their issue dates up to asspecified in the terms.
Note 30: Other reserves Other reserves comprise: 2016 2015 m m Revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets At 1 January 0.3 7.0 Net gains losses from changes in fair value 52.8 0.8 Net gains on disposal transferred to net income 38.3 33.6 Amounts transferred to net income due to hedge accounting 8.4 25.9 Taxation 1.7 1.2 At 31 December 4.1 0.3 2016 2015 m m Cash flow hedge reserve At 1 January 15.3 8.8 Amounts recognised in equity 36.1 13.2 Amounts transferred to income statement 13.6 5.1 Taxation 6.3 1.6 At 31 December 31.5 15.3 246 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 31: Retained earnings 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 544.8 434.5 Profit for the year 140.1 111.2 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 20.8 6.2 Distributions to Additional Tier 1 security holders net of tax 10.1 10.0 Purchase of own shares 7.3 5.0 Share based payments including deferred tax 12.5 20.3 As at 31 December 659.2 544.8 Employee Benefit Trust EBT Retained earnings are stated after deducting 6.9 million 2015: 2.9 million representing 2,922,220 2015: 1,815,387 own shares held in an EBT.
The Company established an EBT in 2011 in connection with the operation of the Companys share plans.
The Company funded the EBT by means of a cash loan and is therefore considered to be the sponsoring entity.
The EBT purchased shares in the Company using the cash loan which is accounted for as a purchase of own shares by the Company.
The investment in own shares at 31 December 2016 is 6.9 million 2015: 2.9 million.
The market value of the shares held in the EBT at 31 December 2016 was 8.8 million.
Note 32: Contingent liabilities and commitments Contingent liabilities The Board was not aware of any significant contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: none.
The Company is, from time to time and in the normal course of business, subject to a variety of legal or regulatory claims, actions or proceedings.
When such circumstances arise, the Board considers the likelihood of a material outflow of economic resources and provides for its best estimate of costs where an outflow of economic resources is considered probable.
While there can be no assurances, the Directors believe, based on information currently available to them, that the likelihood of material outflows from such matters is remote.
The Board does not expect the ultimate resolution of any other threatened or actual legal proceedings to have a significant adverse effect on the financial position of the Group.
Loan commitments Contractual amounts to which the Group is committed for extension of credit to customers.
2016 2015 m m Not later than 1 year 4,854.3 3,980.7 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 88.2 102.5 Later than 5 years 346.6 396.6 Total loan commitments 5,289.1 4,479.8 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 247 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 32: Contingent liabilities and commitments continued Operating lease commitments land and buildings Minimum future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases: 2016 2015 m m Not later than 1 year 7.1 7.2 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 25.0 25.2 Later than 5 years 20.0 24.1 Total operating lease commitments land and buildings 52.1 56.5 Operating lease commitments other operating leases Minimum future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases: 2016 2015 m m Not later than 1 year 4.6 4.6 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 4.6 9.2 Later than 5 years Total operating lease commitments other operating leases 9.2 13.8 Capital commitments Capital commitments for the acquisition of buildings and equipment: 2016 2015 m m Not later than 1 year 1.0 2.9 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years Later than 5 years Total capital commitments 1.0 2.9 248 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 33: Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities Fair value of financial assets and liabilities recognised at cost The following table summarises the fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not presented on the Groups balance sheet at their fair value, by the level in the fair value hierarchy into which each fair value measurement is categorised.
The accounting policy in note 1.9 j sets out the key principles for estimating the fair values of financial instruments.
Total Total fair carrying Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value value m m m m m At 31 December 2016 Cash and balances at central banks 786.3 786.3 786.3 635.6 635.6 635.6 Loans and advances to banks Loans and advances to customers 32,514.0 32,514.0 32,367.1 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 0.7 0.7 0.7 Available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 0.3 0.3 Other assets 68.8 68.8 68.8 Total financial assets at fair value 0.7 1,490.7 32,514.3 34,005.7 33,858.8 Deposits from banks 2,132.5 2,132.5 2,132.5 Customer deposits 28,222.7 28,222.7 28,106.3 Debt securities in issue 2,610.8 2,610.8 2,600.0 Other liabilities 189.5 189.5 189.5 Total financial liabilities at fair value 2,610.8 30,544.7 33,155.5 33,028.3 Total Total fair carrying Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value value m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Cash and balances at central banks 888.6 888.6 888.6 Loans and advances to banks 614.5 614.5 614.5 Loans and advances to customers 27,243.2 27,243.2 27,109.0 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 1.2 1.2 1.1 Available-for-sale financial assets 1.3 1.3 1.3 Other assets 14.6 14.6 14.6 Total financial assets at fair value 1.2 1,517.7 27,244.5 28,763.4 28,629.1 Deposits from banks 1,298.7 1,298.7 1,298.7 Customer deposits 25,162.5 25,162.5 25,144.9 Debt securities in issue 2,032.1 2,032.1 2,039.4 Other liabilities 155.1 155.1 155.1 Total financial liabilities at fair value 2,032.1 26,616.3 28,648.4 28,638.1 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 249 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 33: Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities continued Fair value hierarchy The table above summarises the carrying value and fair value offered by the Group.
The change in interest rates since the of assets and liabilities held on the balance sheet.
There are majority of these loans were originated means that their three levels to the hierarchy as follows: fair value can vary significantly from their carrying value.
However, as the Groups policy is to hedge fixed rate loans in Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for respect of interest rate risk, this does not indicate that the identical assets and liabilities.
Group has an exposure to this difference in value.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 Loans and advances to customers are categorised as level 3 as that are observable for the asset or liability, whether directly i. e. unobservable pre-payment rates are applied.
as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Debt securities classified as loans and receivables Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on Fair values are based on quoted prices, where available, or by observable market data unobservable inputs.
discounting cash flows using market rates.
Valuation methods for calculations of fair values of Available-for-sale financial assets financial assets and liabilities recognised at cost are set out below: These are unquoted equity securities held by the Group and relating to participation in banking and credit card operations Cash and balances at central banks refer note 16.
They are categorised as level 3 as the fair value Fair value approximates to carrying value because cash and of these securities cannot be reliably measured, due to the balances at central banks have minimal credit losses and are lack of equivalent instruments with observable prices.
either short-term in nature or reprice frequently.
Other assets and liabilities trade debtors creditors, Loans and advances to banks accrued income and accrued interest Fair value was estimated by using discounted cash flows Fair value is deemed to approximate the carrying value.
applying either market rates where practicable or rates offered by other financial institutions for loans with similar Deposits from banks and customer deposits characteristics.
The fair value of floating rate placements, Fair values of deposit liabilities repayable on demand or fixed rate placements with less than six months to maturity with variable interest rates are considered to approximate and overnight deposits is considered to approximate to their to carrying value.
The fair value of fixed interest deposits carrying amount.
with less than six months to maturity is their carrying amount.
The fair value of all other deposit liabilities was Loans and advances to customers estimated by discounting cash flows, using market rates or The Group provides loans of varying rates and maturities rates currently offered by the Group for deposits of similar to customers.
The fair value of loans with variable interest remaining maturities.
rates is considered to approximate to carrying value as the interest rate can be moved in line with market conditions.
For Debt securities in issue loans with fixed interest rates, fair value was estimated by Fair values are based on quoted prices where available or by discounting cash flows using market rates or rates normally discounting cash flows using market rates.
250 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 33: Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities continued Fair value of financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value The following table summarises the fair values of those financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value, by the level in the fair value hierarchy into which each fair value measurement is categorised.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2016 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 104.2 104.2 Available-for-sale financial assets 850.9 7.6 858.5 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 229.7 229.7 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2015 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 82.3 82.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,233.3 59.0 3.3 1,295.6 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 156.0 156.0 Level 1 Valuations The fair value of debt securities categorised as available-for-sale financial assets is derived from unadjusted quoted prices in an active market.
Level 2 Valuations The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated by discounted cash flow models using yield curves that are based on observable market data or are based on valuations obtained from counterparties.
The fair value of level 2 available-for-sale securities were calculated using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models.
Level 3 Valuations Level 3 available-for-sale financial assets represent the Groups best estimates of the value of certain equity investments in unlisted companies and of Visa Inc. preferred stock.
The level 3 valuation of 3.3 million at 31 December 2015 represented the Groups best estimate at that time of the value of its equity investment in Visa Europe Limited, with reference to the consideration expected to be received from the proposed acquisition of that company by Visa Inc.
The acquisition by Visa Inc. completed on 21 June 2016, resulting in disposal of the investment and receipt of Visa Inc. preferred stock and cash consideration and recognition of a gain on disposal of 5.3 million, included within Other Operating Income.
The Visa Inc. preferred stock value was determined by reference to the Visa Inc. common stock price at 31 December 2016, less a discount to reflect restrictions on transferability and the risk of future reduction in conversion to Visa Inc. common stock.
The discount applied is the most significant unobservable input to the valuation.
The Company has determined of the fair value of the investments in the relevant unlisted entities by reference to third party valuations, taking into account pertinent information received on the individual investments to adjust those valuations, where considered appropriate.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 251 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 34: Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Related amounts where set off in the balance sheet not Potential 2 permitted net amounts Gross Amounts Net amounts Subject if offset amounts of offset in presented in to master Collateral of related assets and the balance the balance netting received amounts liabilities sheet sheet agreements pledged permitted m m m m m m As at 31 December 2016 Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 123.9 19.7 104.2 25.4 78.8 Loans and advances to banks 635.6 635.6 168.1 467.5 Other assets 72.0 3.2 68.8 68.8 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 2,132.5 2,132.5 10.7 2,121.8 Derivative financial instruments 254.1 24.4 229.7 25.4 168.1 36.2 Other liabilities 188.0 1.5 189.5 189.5 Related amounts where set off in the balance sheet not Potential 2 permitted net amounts Gross Amounts Net amounts Subject if offset amounts of offset in presented in to master Collateral of related assets and the balance the balance netting received amounts liabilities sheet sheet agreements pledged permitted m m m m m m As at 31 December 2015 Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 82.6 0.3 82.3 70.4 10.6 1.3 Loans and advances to banks 614.5 614.5 72.5 542.0 Other assets 14.7 0.1 14.6 14.6 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 1,298.7 1,298.7 10.6 1,288.1 Derivative financial instruments 156.4 0.4 156.0 70.4 72.5 13.1 Other liabilities 155.1 155.1 155.1 1 The amounts set off in the balance sheet as shown above represent derivatives and variation margin cash collateral with central clearing houses which meet the criteria for offsetting under IAS 32.
2 The Group enters into derivatives with various counterparties which are governed by industry standard master netting agreements.
The Group holds and provides cash and securities collateral in respect of derivative transactions covered by these agreements.
The right to set off balances under these master netting agreements or to set off cash and securities collateral only arises in the event of non-payment or default and, as a result, these arrangements do not qualify for offsetting under IAS 32.
The effects of over collateralisation have not been taken into account in the above table.
252 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 35: Cash flow statements a Change in operating assets 2016 2015 m m Change in loans and advances to customers 5,295.7 4,046.2 Change in derivative financial assets 21.9 18.9 Change in other operating assets 69.7 10.0 Change in operating assets 5,387.3 4,037.3 b Change in operating liabilities 2016 2015 m m Change in customer deposits 2,961.4 2,779.2 Change in derivative financial liabilities 73.7 72.2 Change in other operating liabilities 922.2 439.4 Change in operating liabilities 3,957.3 3,146.4 c Non-cash and other items 2016 2015 m m Depreciation and amortisation 21.0 19.6 Other non-cash items 40.5 42.8 Total non-cash and other items 19.5 62.4 d Analysis of cash and cash equivalents as shown in the balance sheet 2016 2015 m m Cash and balances at central banks 786.3 888.6 1 Less: mandatory reserve deposits 49.1 41.7 737.2 846.9 Loans and advances to banks 635.6 614.5 Deposits from banks 2,132.5 1,298.7 Less: amounts not repayable on demand 2,131.9 1,298.7 0.6 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,372.2 1,461.4 1 Mandatory reserves with central banks are not available for use in day-to-day operations.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 253 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 36: Related party transactions Key Management Personnel Key Management Personnel refer to the Executive Team of the Group, Non-Executive Directors and Directors of subsidiary companies.
2016 2015 m m Compensation Salaries and other short-term benefits 7.4 8.2 Share based payments Refer note 7 7.6 12.3 Post-employment benefits 0.8 0.9 Total compensation 15.8 21.4 Aggregate contributions in respect of Key Management Personnel to defined contribution pension schemes 0.8 million 2015: 0.9 million.
2016 2015 m m Deposits At 1 January 2.2 1.1 Placed 1.5 1.8 Withdrawn 2.3 0.7 Deposits outstanding at 31 December 1.4 2.2 Deposits placed by Key Management Personnel attracted interest rates of up to 3.0% 2015: 2.8 %.
At 31 December 2016, the Group did not provide any guarantees in respect of Key Management Personnel 2015: none.
At 31 December 2016, transactions, arrangements and agreements entered into by the Groups banking subsidiaries with Key Management Personnel included amounts outstanding in respect of loans and credit card transactions of 0.9 million with 7Key Management Personnel 2015: 0.3 million with 5 Key Management Personnel.
254 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 36: Related party transactions continued Subsidiaries Transactions and balances with subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
A full list of the companys subsidiaries and SPVs included within the consolidation is provided in note 2 to the parent company financial statements.
The Virgin Money Foundation, launched in August 2015, is managed and controlled by a Board of independent Trustees, such that the Group has no power over the Foundation or, exposure or ability to affect variable returns.
The Foundation is therefore not consolidated in the financial statements of the Group.
Other transactions Transaction value at year end: 2016 2015 m m Trademark licence fees to Virgin Enterprises Limited 5.9 5.1 Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited 0.2 Dividend payment to Virgin Group Holdings Limited 7.3 2.2 Other costs to Virgin Management Group Companies 1.2 0.4 Balance outstanding at year end: 2016 2015 m m Trademark licence fees to Virgin Enterprises Limited 0.4 Other costs to Virgin Management Group Companies 0.1 0.1 Trademark licence fees to Virgin 4.8 million payment in May 2016 and a 2.5 million payment Enterprises Limited in September 2016, which represented that companys proportionate share of the total final 2015 dividend and the Licence fees are payable to Virgin Enterprises Limited for the total interim 2016 dividend respectively.
In the prior year, a use of the Virgin Money brand trademark.
dividend payment of 2.2 million was made to Virgin Group Holdings Limited in October 2015 which represented that Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited Companys proportionate share of the total interim 2015 The Group incurs credit card commissions and air mile charges dividend.
Refer to note 11. to Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited VAA in respect of an agreement between the two parties.
Other costs to Virgin Management Group Companies Dividend payment to Virgin Group These costs include transactions with other companies in Holdings Limited the Virgin Group.
The Group made dividend payments totalling 7.3 million to Virgin Group Holdings Limited in the year, comprising a Note 37: Events after balance sheet date There have been no significant events between 31 December 2016 and the date of approval of the financial statements which would require a change or additional disclosure in the financial statements.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 255 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 38: Future accounting developments A number of new accounting standards and amendments to accounting standards have been issued by the IASB, however are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group.
Those which may be relevant to the Group are set out below.
Pronouncement Nature of change IASB effective date IFRS 9 Financial IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 1 January 2018 Instruments Measurement.
IFRS 9 is split over 3 core areas of change.
EU endorsed on 22 November 2016 Classification and Measurement IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into one of three measurement categories, fair value through profit or loss, fair value through other comprehensive income and amortised cost.
Classification is based on the objectives of the entitys business model for managing its financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruments, while it retains most of the existing requirements for financial liabilities.
The Group has undertaken an assessment to determine the potential impact of changes in classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities.
The adoption of IFRS 9 is unlikely to result in a significant change to the current asset and liability measurement bases, however, the final impact will be dependent on the facts and circumstances that exist on 1 January 2018.
Impairment IFRS 9 replaces the existing incurred loss impairment approach with an expected credit loss approach, resulting in earlier recognition of credit losses.
The IFRS 9 impairment model has three stages.
Entities are required to recognise a 12 month expected loss allowance on initial recognition stage 1 and a lifetime expected loss allowance when there has been a significant increase in credit risk stage 2.
Stage 3 requires objective evidence that an asset is credit-impaired, which is similar to the guidance on incurred losses in IAS 39.
Loan commitments and financial guarantees not measured at fair value through profit or loss are also in scope for impairment.
The assessment of whether a significant increase in credit risk has occurred is a key aspect of the IFRS 9 methodology.
It involves quantitative and qualitative measures and therefore requires considerable management judgement.
In addition IFRS 9 also requires the use of more forward-looking information including reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions.
The need to consider multiple economic scenarios and how they could impact the loss allowance is a subjective feature of the IFRS 9 impairment model.
The Groups final methodology for significant increase in credit risk and multiple economic scenarios are still under development.
These changes may result in a material increase in the Groups balance sheet provisions for credit losses and may therefore negatively impact the Groups regulatory capital position, although the regulatory capital transitional arrangements are still in consultation and the impact may be spread over a period of time.
The extent of any increase in provisions will depend upon, amongst other things, the composition of the Groups lending portfolios and forecast economic conditions at the date of implementation.
The requirement to transfer assets between stages and to incorporate forward-looking data into the expected credit loss calculation, including multiple economic scenarios, is likely to result in impairment charges being more volatile when compared to the current IAS 39 impairment model.
Hedge Accounting The hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 are more closely aligned with risk management practices and follow a more principle-based approach than IAS 39.
However, there is an option to maintain the existing IAS 39 hedge accounting rules until the IASB completes its project on macro hedging.
The Group currently expects to continue applying IAS 39 hedge accounting in accordance with this accounting policy choice.
Accounting Transition IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with no requirement to restate prior periods.
If comparative periods are not restated, at the date of initial application, any difference between the carrying amount of financial assets and the change in loss allowance shall be recognised in opening retained earnings.
256 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 38: Future accounting developments continued Pronouncement Nature of change IASB effective date IFRS 9 implementation programme The Group has an established IFRS 9 programme to ensure a high quality implementation in compliance with the standard and regulatory guidance.
The programme involves multiple functions from across the Group with steering committees providing oversight.
The key responsibilities of the programme include defining IFRS 9 methodology and accounting policy, development of expected loss models, identifying data and system requirements and establishing an appropriate operating model and governance framework.
The Group is building new expected credit loss models using three key input parameters for the computation of expected loss: probability of default, loss given default and exposure at default.
The initial build phase of the programme is complete and the Group is currently testing and refining the models in line with the Groups delivery plans.
The Group will continue to refine the expected credit loss approach under IFRS 9 and provide an update on the progress made at each reporting period until implementation.
IFRS 15 Revenue IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts as a comprehensive 1 January 2018 from Contracts with standard to address current inconsistencies in accounting practice for revenue EU endorsed on 22 Customers September 2016 recognition.
Financial instruments and other contractual rights or obligations within the scope of IFRS 9 are excluded from the scope of this standard.
The Group has reviewed the requirements of the new standard and it is not expected to have a significant impact, as a substantial proportion of the Groups income is generated from financial instruments.
IFRS 16 Leases This standard replaces IAS 17 Leases and will result in most leases for lessees being 1 January 2019 has not brought on to the Balance Sheet under a single lease model, removing the distinction been EU endorsed between finance and operating leases.
It requires a lessee to recognise a right-of-use asset and a lease liability.
Lessor accounting remains largely unchanged.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the new standard.
Note 39: Country by country reporting The Capital Requirements Country by Country Reporting Regulations came into effect on 1 January 2014 and place certain reporting obligations on financial institutions within CRD IV.
The activities of the Group are described in the Strategic Report.
All companies consolidated within the Groups financial statements are UK registered entities.
UK Number of employees average FTE 2,893 Turnover total income 581.4m Pre-tax profit 194.4m Corporation tax paid 22.1m Public subsidies received 0.0m The Group received no public subsidies during the year.
