268 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Glossary Advanced Internal Ratings Based A CRD IV approach for measuring exposure to credit risks.
The method of calculating credit risk capital AIRB Approach requirements uses internal probability of default PD, loss given default LGD and exposure at default EAD models.
AIRB approaches may only be used with Prudential Regulation Authority PRA permission.
Basel III Global regulatory standard on Bank Capital Adequacy, Stress Testing and Market and Liquidity proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in 2010.
Basis Point bps One hundredth of a per cent 0.01%.
Used when quoting movements in interest rates or yields.
Capital at Risk CaR Approach set out for the quantification of interest rate risk expressed as the impact to the present value of the Groups capital under interest rate sensitivity analysis.
CASS Client Assets Sourcebook included in the FCA Handbook and sets out the requirements with which firms must comply when holding or controlling client assets.
Certificates of Deposit A certificate issued by a bank to a person depositing money for a specified length of time at a specified rate of interest.
Charge-Off Charge off occurs on outstanding credit card balances which are deemed irrecoverable.
This involves the removal of the balance and associated provision from the balance sheet with any remaining outstanding balance recognised as a loss.
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital The highest quality form of capital under CRD IV that comprises common shares issued and related share CET1 premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash flow hedging reserve, less specified regulatory adjustments.
CRD IV In June 2013, the European Commission published legislation for a Capital Requirements Directive CRD and Capital Requirements Regulation CRR which form the CRD IV package.
The package implements the Basel III proposals in addition to the inclusion of new proposals on sanctions for non-compliance with prudential rules, corporate governance and remuneration.
The rules are implemented in the UK via the PRA policy statement PS7 13 and came into force from 1 January 2014, with certain sections subject to transitional phase in.
Credit Enhancements Techniques that improve the credit standing of financial obligations: generally those issued by a structured entity in a securitisation.
Credit Valuation Adjustments These are adjustments to the fair values of derivative assets to reflect the creditworthiness of CVA the counterparty.
Cross-Currency Swaps An arrangement in which two parties exchange specific principal amounts in different currencies at inception and subsequent interest payments on the principal amounts.
Debt Securities Debt securities are assets held by the Group representing certificates of indebtedness of credit institutions, public bodies or other undertakings, excluding those issued by Central Banks.
Earnings at Risk EaR Approach set out for the quantification of interest rate risk expressed as the impact to forecast net interest income under interest rate sensitivity analysis.
Expected Loss regulatory Regulatory expected loss represents the anticipated loss, in the event of a default, on a credit risk exposure modelled under the Advanced Internal Ratings Based approach.
Expected loss is determined by multiplying the associated PD, LGD and EAD.
Exposure at Default EAD An estimate of the amount expected to be owed by a customer at the time of a customers default.
Forbearance Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to borrowers financial difficulties: or for where the contractual terms have been cancelled for credit cards.
Forbearance options are determined by assessing the customers personal circumstances.
Full Time Equivalent FTE A full time employee is one that works a standard five day week.
The hours worked by part time employees are measured against this standard and accumulated along with the number of full time employees and counted as full time equivalents.
Funding for Lending Scheme FLS The Bank of England launched the Funding for Lending scheme in 2012 to allow banks and building societies to borrow from the Bank of England at cheaper than market rates for up to four years.
This was designed to increase lending to businesses by lowering interest rates and increasing access to credit.
Funding Risk The inability to raise and maintain sufficient funding in quality and quantity to support the delivery of the business plan.
Impaired Assets Loans that are in arrears or where there is objective evidence of impairment, and where the carrying amount of the loan exceeds the expected recoverable amount.
Impairment Allowance Impairment allowances are a provision held on the balance sheet as a result of the raising of a charge against profit for the incurred loss inherent in the lending book.
An impairment allowance may either be individual or collective.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 269 I Impairment Losses An impairment loss is the reduction in value that arises following an impairment review of an asset that determined that the assets value is lower than its carrying value.
For impaired financial assets measured at amortised cost, impairment losses are the difference between the carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Interest Rate Risk The risk of a reduction in the present value of the current balance sheet or earnings as a result of adverse movement in interest rates.
Interest Rate Risk in the Banking The risk of a reduction in the present value of the current balance sheet or earnings as a result of an adverse Book IRRBB movement in interest rates arising as a consequence of carrying out and supporting core business activities.
Internal Capital Adequacy The part of the Pillar 2 assessment to be undertaken by a bank.
The ICAAP allows financial institutions to Assessment Process ICAAP assess the level of capital that adequately supports all relevant current and future risks in their business.
In undertaking an ICAAP, a financial institution should be able to ensure that it has appropriate processes in place to ensure compliance with CRD IV.
Leverage Ratio Total Tier 1 Capital expressed as a percentage of Total assets adjusted in accordance with CRD IV.
Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR Stock of high quality liquid assets as a percentage of expected net cash outflows over the following 30 days according to CRD IV requirements.
Liquidity Risk The inability to accommodate liability maturities and withdrawals, fund asset growth, and otherwise meet the Groups contractual obligations to make payments as they fall due.
Loan-to-Value Ratio The amount of a secured loan as a percentage of the appraised value of the security e. g. the outstanding amount of mortgage loan as a percentage of the propertys value.
Loss Emergence Period Under IAS 39, losses are recognised on an incurred basis.
The loss emergence period allows for the recognition of impairment in respect of losses that have been incurred but not reported.
The emergence period is measured as time between the emergence of impairment triggers and the time at which the loss is incurred.
Loss Given Default LGD The estimated loss that will arise if a customer defaults.
LGD comprises the actual loss the part that is not expected to be recovered, after taking account of credit risk mitigation, for example, any security held over collateral and the economic costs associated with the recovery process.
Master Netting Agreement An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event ofdefault on, or termination of, any one contract.
Net Interest Income The difference between interest received on assets and interest paid on liabilities.
Net Promoter Score NPS A measure of satisfaction that ranges between -100 and 100 and represents the likelihood of respondents recommending Virgin Money, its products or services to others on a scale of between 0 and 10 where 10 represents the most positive score.
Those scoring 9 to 10 are categorised as Promoters, those scoring 0 to 6 as Detractors and those scoring 7 to 8 as Passives.
The NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents who are Detractors from the percentage of respondents that are Promoters.
Passives count towards the total number of respondents and thus decrease the percentage of Detractors and Promoters.
Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR The ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding over a one year time horizon, assuming a stressed scenario.
The ratio is required to be 100% with effect from 2018.
Available stable funding would include such items as equity capital, preferred stock with a maturity of over 1 year, or liabilities with a maturity of over 1 year.
Percentage Point pp Unit for measuring the difference of two percentages.
A change from 1% to 2% is 1 percentage point.
Pillar 1 The part of CRD IV that sets out the process by which regulatory Capital requirements should be calculated for credit, market and operational risk.
Pillar 2 The part of CRD IV that ensures financial institutions hold adequate capital to support the relevant risks in their business.
It also encourages financial institutions to develop and use enhanced risk management techniques in monitoring and managing their risks.
Pillar 3 The part of CRD IV that sets out the information banks must disclose in relation to their risks, the amount of capital required to absorb them, and their approach to risk management.
The aim is to strengthen market discipline.
Probability of Default PD The probability of a customer defaulting over a defined outcome period.
Default occurs where a borrower has missed 6 months of mortgage repayments or 3 months of credit card repayments, or the borrower is deemed to be unlikely to repay their loan.
The outcome period varies for assessment of capital requirements and for assessment of provisions.
Repurchase Agreements Repos A form of short-term funding where one party sells a financial asset to another party with an agreement to repurchase at a specific price and date.
From the sellers perspective such agreements are repurchase agreements repos and from the buyers reverse repurchase agreements reverse repos.
270 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Glossary Risk Appetite The risk appetite sets limits on the amount and type of risk that the Group is willing to take in order to meet its strategic objectives.
Risk-Weighted Assets A measure of a banks assets adjusted for their associated risks.
Risk weightings are established in accordance with PRA rules and are used to assess capital requirements and adequacy under Pillar 1.
Securitisation Securitisation is a process by which a group of assets, usually loans, are aggregated into a pool, which is used to back the issuance of new securities through an SPV.
Sovereign Exposures Exposures to central governments and central government departments, central banks and entities owned or guaranteed by the aforementioned.
Standardised Approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit Assessment Institutions ECAI ratings of obligors where available and supervisory risk weights.
In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the operational risk capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined percentage charge to the gross income of specified business lines.
Stress Testing Techniques where plausible events are considered as vulnerabilities to ascertain how this will impact the capital or liquidity resources which are required to be held.
Tier 1 Capital A measure of banks financial strength defined by the PRA.
It captures Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, but is subject to deductions including in respect of material holdings in financial companies.
Tier 1 Capital Ratio Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Tier 2 Capital A further component of regulatory capital defined by the PRA for the Group.
It comprises eligible collective assessed impairment allowances under CRD IV.
Term Funding Scheme TFS The Bank of England launched the Term Funding Scheme in 2016 to allow banks and building societies to borrow from the Bank of England at rates close to Bank Base Rate.
This is designed to increase lending to businesses by lowering interest rates and increasing access to credit.
Virgin Virgin Group Holdings Limited.
Virgin Money Trademark Licence The agreement under which Virgin Enterprises Limited grants perpetual licence to Virgin Money to use the Agreement Virgin and Virgin Money trademarks.
WLR WLR IV VM LLC and WLR IV VM II LLC, together formerly major shareholders of the Company.
