Corporate governance Statement of Directors responsibilities In respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and ParentCompany financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Responsibility statement of the Directors Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that inrespect of the AnnualReport law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in We confirm that to the best ofourknowledge: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and u the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements applicable set of accounting standards, give atrue and fair view onthe same basis.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view taken as a whole: and of the state of affairs of the Group and the Parent Company and of u the management report, which comprises the Directors Report their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and and the Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development Parent Company financial statements, the Directors arerequired to: and performance of the business and the position of the issuer select suitable accounting policies and then apply u and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as themconsistently: awhole, together with a description of the principal risks anduncertainties thatthey face.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable u andprudent: The Board considers that the AnnualReport and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced andunderstandable state whether they have been prepared in accordance with u and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess IFRSsas adopted by the EU: and the Groups position and performance, business model andstrategy.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis u By order of the Board unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys Louisa Burdett transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Group Finance Director financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure 6 December 2016 that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group andtoprevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for themaintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
