Shareholder information Explanatory notes Resolution 1 Annual Report and Accounts The Companies Act 2006 requires the directors of a public company to lay its annual report and accounts before the company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
The Annual Report and Accounts comprises the Audited Financial Statements, the Auditors Report, the Strategic Report, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company proposes, as an Ordinary Resolution, a resolution on its Annual Report andAccounts.
Resolution 2 Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company proposes an Ordinary Resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2016.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 51 to 64 of the Annual Report and Accounts and, for the purposes of this resolution, does not include the parts of the Directors Remuneration Report containing the Directors Remuneration Policy which is set out on pages 52 to 57.
The vote on this resolution is advisory only and the Directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on its being passed.
Resolution 3 Approval of the Directors Remuneration Policy The Company proposes an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy contained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The proposed policy is set out on pages 52 to 57 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The vote on Resolution 3 is a binding vote and, if passed, will mean that the Company can only make remuneration payments to Directors or payments to Directors for loss of office: i consistent with the Directors Remuneration Policy: or ii if the relevant payment is approved by the members of the Company by ordinary resolution.
Resolution 4 Declaration of final dividend A final dividend of 35.09p per ordinary share has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2016.
Inaccordance with the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
Ifapproved, the dividend will be paid on 17 February 2017 to shareholders on the register at 6pm on 3 February 2017.
Resolutions 5 to 13 Re-election of Directors In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors shall retire from office at the AGM and offer themselves forre-election at the AGM.
Each of Resolutions 5 to 13 shall be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution.
The Board considers each non-executive Director to be independent and the Chairman confirms that, following formal evaluation asreferred to on page 44, each Director standing for re-election continues to contribute effectively to the Board and to demonstrate commitment to the role including commitment of time for Board and Board Committee meetings.
Mr fide Smedt was appointed as a non-executive Director in July 2008.
He is currently the chairman of the remuneration committee.
TheBoard recognises that the proposed re-appointment of Mr fide Smedt at the forthcoming AGM will mean that, during the course ofthe year, he will have served asa non-executive Director for morethan nine years.
The Board is mindful of thisand therefore inconsidering whether to recommend MrDeSmedt for re-appointment has given particular regard for his continued independence both in character andjudgement, as to which the Board is fully satisfied.
The Board also considered the work which has been done in preparing arevised Remuneration Policy please see page 52 and which will be separately considered byshareholders at theAGM to be held on8February 2017.
TheBoard took into consideration the important part MrDeSmedt has provided indeveloping the revised policy, and felt itappropriate that he should during 2017 leadthe implementation of such policy in the event the shareholders approve it for adoption or address any amendments whichmight otherwise be required.
The biographical details, skills, and experience of each Director standing for election or re-election are set out below and on pages 38 and39 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Mr Larry Pentz, Chairman Larry Pentz was appointed to the Board in 2008 and became Chairman in 2014.
Larry isChairman of the Nominations Committee.
Larryhasover 30 years service within multi-national corporations in a variety ofoperational and general management positions.
Larry hasextensive experience in developing strategy for and successfully leading international growth businesses.
He has been instrumental in the acquisition and integration of multiple catalyst and chemical companies for JohnsonMatthey Plc, and was formerly executive director responsible for EmissionControl Technologies of JohnsonMatthey Plc.
Larry retired as an executive director ofJohnsonMatthey Plc during 2016 whereheheld board-level responsibility for JohnsonMattheys Process Technologies andFine Chemicals Divisions.
Dr Pamela Kirby, Senior Independent Director Pamela Kirby was appointed to the Board in2011 and Senior Independent Director in November2014.
Pamela has detailed knowledge ofthe international pharmaceutical industry, and was formerly CEO of Quintiles Transnational Corp based in North Carolina, USA.
Pamela has also held a number of other senior positions inthe international pharmaceutical industry including AstraZeneca PLC where she was aregional director and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. where she was director of strategic marketing and business development.
Pamela was previously chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited and Scynexis Inc, and non-executive director of Novo Nordisk A S and Smith & Nephew plc.
Pamela is a non-executive director of DCC plc, Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, and serves on the supervisory board of Akzo Nobel.
104 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Shareholder information Resolutions 5 to 13 Re-election of Directors continued Mr Patrick fide Smedt, Non-executive Director Patrick fide Smedt was appointed to the Boardin 2008.
Patrick is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Between 1983 and 2006, Patrick held a number of senior positions in Microsoft, during which time he founded the Benelux subsidiaries, led the development of the Western European business and in the period 2003 and 2006 served as chairman of Microsoft for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Patrick has previously worked withearly stageventures as well as large, established multi-nationals.
He has a deepknowledge of international markets, technologyand diverse industry sectors.
Patrick is senior independent director atPageGroup plc, KCOM Group plc andMorganSindall Group plc, where heisalsochairman ofthe remuneration committee.
He is a non-executive director  Limited and NexintoHolding Ltd. Mr Andrew Dougal, Non-executive Director Andrew Dougal was appointed to the Board in March 2015 and was appointed Audit Committee Chairman effective from October 2015.
Andrew is aChartered Accountant and brings a wealth of experience to the Board, from a lengthy executive and non-executive career of over 35years in industrial, manufacturing and services companies.
Andrew is a non-executive director and Chairofthe Audit Committee at Carillionplc.
Hewas previously a non-executive director and Audit Committee Chair of Taylor Woodrow Plc, Taylor Wimpey Plc and Creston Plc and anon-executive director of BPB Plc and PremierFarnell plc.
Formerly, Andrew served as Chief Executive of Hanson plc, the international building materials group, following its demerger from Hanson, the Anglo-American conglomerate, where he was finance director.
Andrew is a member of the Council of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants ofScotland ICAS.
Ms Jane Toogood, Non-executive Director Jane Toogood was appointed to the Board inSeptember 2015.
Jane has a wealth of experience across a number of senior marketing, sales and business development roles within theglobal chemical industry, including Borealis, ICIand Uniqema, and held anon-executive directorrole with NHS Harrogate and DistrictFoundation Trust.
Jane holds an MA in natural sciences chemistry from the University of Oxford.
Jane is Divisional Director, Precious Metal Products at Johnson Matthey Plc.
Mr David Hummel, Chief Executive David Hummel assumed responsibility for VICTREX PEEK worldwide in 1992 and has more than 25 years of experience of the global high performance polymer industry.
Formerly with Diamond Shamrock, GE Plastics and ICI, David was appointed to the Board in 1993 following his leading of the successful MBO ofVictrex from ICI.
He has served as CEO of Victrex since that time, overseeing strategic decision making and day to day management and leadership of the business.
Mr Tim Cooper, Executive Director Tim Cooper was appointed as an Executive Director to the Board in October 2012.
Tim joined Victrex in January 2010 as Managing Director of Victrex Polymer Solutions.
Tim hasover 30 years of international business management and commercial experience, having held senior leadership positions in anumber of industries.
Prior to joining the Victrex business, Tim was with Umeco Plc, initially as managing director of Aerovac Systems Ltd, but later becoming group managing director of Umeco Composites Process Materials.
He has been managing director of Tellermate Plc and of Avery BerkelLtd, having developed his international career with GEC, BP and Land Rover.
Ms Louisa Burdett, Group Finance Director Louisa Burdett was appointed as Group Finance Director in February 2014.
Louisa also has overall responsibility for the Group Legal function, as well as the Company Secretarial function.
Louisa formerly held the position of chief financial officer and was an executive director at Optos plc.
Priorto this, Louisa was chief financial officer at the Financial Times Group from 2008 to 2012.
Louisa has also held roles at Chep Europe, a division of Brambles Ltd, the Australian listed pallet distribution company, GE Healthcare and GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Louisahas also worked as an M&A Consultant at Charterhouse Bank and spent four years atKPMG in London.
She has a first class degree in biochemistry from Imperial College, London and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Dr Martin Court, Executive Director Martin Court was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director in April 2015.
Martin joined Victrex in February 2013 as Managing Director of Invibio, Victrexs medical business.
Martin has significant proven international experience in the medical and high performance materials and chemicals industries, including with CytecIndustries, and in a number of senior roles atboth ICI and UCB.
He is an INSEAD alumnus, holds a doctorate in the field of surface chemistry and fracture mechanics and aBSc Eng degree in mineral technology fromImperial College ofScience and Technology, London.
Resolutions 14 and 15 Appointment of auditor auditors remuneration At each meeting at which the Annual Report and Accounts are laid, the Company is required to appoint an auditor to serve until the next such meeting.
KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as the Companys auditor.
It is, therefore, proposed that KPMG LLP bere-appointed auditor of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of the AGM until the conclusion of the next general meeting atwhich the Annual Report and Accounts are laid before the Company.
Resolution 15 is an Ordinary Resolution giving the Directors discretion to determine KPMGs remuneration.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 105 Shareholder information Explanatory notes continued Resolution 16 Political Donations The Companies Act 2006 requires companies to obtain shareholder authority before they can make political donations exceeding 5,000 inaggregate in any 12 month period to political parties, other political organisations or independent election candidates or incur political expenditure.
The definitions of political donation, political parties, independent election candidates, political organisations and political expenditure used in the Companies Act 2006 are very broad and, as a result, a number of normal business activities or business matters affecting the Company that would not be thought to be political donations or political expenditure in the usual sense, may qualify asadonation to a political party, political organisation or independent election candidate or otherwise be political expenditure.
Such activities are not designed to support any political party, political organisation or independent election candidate nor to influence public support for a particular party, organisation or candidate.
It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words and the Directors have no intention of using the authority for that purpose.
To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the Companies Act 2006, the Directors consider that it would be prudent to follow the procedures specified in the Companies Act 2006 to obtain shareholder approval for the Company and its subsidiaries to, in aggregate: i make political donations to political parties and or independent election candidates not exceeding 12,500 in total: ii make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 12,500 in total: and iii incur political expenditure not exceeding 12,500 in total, in each case during the period up to the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company in 2018.
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the resolution extends not only to the Company but also covers all companies which are subsidiaries of the Company at any time the authority is in place.
The Companys policy remains that it does not, directly or through any subsidiary, make what are commonly regarded as donations to any political party, organisation or candidate, and the authority being requested from shareholders is not designed to change this policy.
The authority is sought as a precaution to ensure that the Companys normal business activities are within the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 17 Authority to allot shares The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot shares.
The authority conferred on the Directors at the 2016 AGM to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any securities into shares in the Company expires at the conclusion of this years AGM.
Accordingly, in line with the Companys usual procedure, which is also standard practice amongst other public companies, this Ordinary Resolution seeks authority for the Directors to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any securities into shares inthe Company until the conclusion of the Companys next annual general meeting or 8 May 2018, if sooner.
In accordance with guidance issued by The Investment Association, the proposed authority will allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares in the Company Ordinary Shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into Ordinary Shares up to a maximum nominal amount of approximately but not exceeding one-third of the existing issued share capital as at 2 December 2016 the latest practicable date before the publication of this notice, plus, in the case of a rights issue only, a further amount up to an additional maximum nominal amount of approximately but not exceeding one-third of the Companys existing issued share capital.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
The Company held no treasury shares as at 2 December 2016.
Resolutions 18 and 19 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders Under the Companies Act 2006, when shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered first to existing shareholders inproportion to their current shareholding.
Resolution 18 will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash and sell treasury shares: i in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer: or ii otherwise up to a nominal amount of 42,783, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 2 December 2016 the latest practicable date before the publication of this notice, other than to existing shareholders without first having to offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings in order to take advantage of opportunities as and when they arise.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority and confirm their intention that not more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital will be allotted or treasury shares sold on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period, other than with prior consultation with shareholders or in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment as referred to below.
Resolution 19 is in addition to resolution 18.
As supported by the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, as updated in March 2015, resolution 19 will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash or sell shares out of treasury up to a further nominal amount of 42,783, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 2 December 2016 the latest practicable date before the publication ofthis notice, other than to existing shareholders without first having to offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
In respect of the authority under resolution 19, the Board confirms that it will only allot shares or sell shares out of treasury pursuant to this authority where the relevant acquisition or specified capital investment is announced contemporaneously with the allotment, or has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
The Directors have no current intention ofexercising this authority.
If this authority is used, the Company will publish details of the placing in its next Annual Report and Accounts.
The authorities under resolutions 18 and 19 will lapse at the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or 8 May 2018, if sooner.
These resolutions will be proposed as special resolutions, which require a 75% majority of the votesto be cast in favour.
106 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Shareholder information Resolution 20 Authority to purchase own shares In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 20 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 2 December 2016 thelatest practicable date before the publication of this notice and the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in this way will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly, orbe held as treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, resold or used to provide shares for employee share schemes.
The Company currently has no Ordinary Shares in treasury.
As at 2 December 2016, options over a total of 1,389,805 Ordinary Shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of Ordinary Shares represents 1.62% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at 2 December 2016.
It would represent 1.8% of the issued Ordinary Share capital at that date if the authority to buy the Companys own shares given at the previous AGM and the authority now being sought byresolution 20 were to be fully used.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of theCompany or 8 May 2018, if sooner.
Resolution 21 Authority to hold general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice This special resolution renews an authority given at last years annual general meeting and is required as a result of section 307A of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an annual general meeting on not less than 14clear days notice and would like to maintain this ability.
In order to do so, the Companys shareholders must approve the calling of suchmeetings on not less than 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company notes the notice period provision in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code which recommends at least 14 working days notice to be given for all general meetings other than annual general meetings.
Insofar as it is appropriate to do so, the Company intends to comply with this code provision in the same way that it currently complies with the 20 working days notice provision applicable to annual general meetings.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation The Directors consider that all the proposed resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and of its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them.
