Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Shareholder Information Company Secretary & Registered Office Christopher Morgan The Weir Group PLC 1 West Regent Street Glasgow G2 1RW Registered in Scotland.
Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol, BS99 6ZZ Website: www.
co. uk Telephone: 0370 707 1402 Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, change of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, transfer of shares etc.
should be addressed to Computershare.
Shareholder communications On-Line communications Shareholders are encouraged to visit the Companys corporate website www.
weir, which contains a wealth of information about the Weir Group.
The website includes information about the markets in which we operate, our strategy and business performance, recent news from the Group and product information.
The Investor section is a key source of information for shareholders, containing details on the share price, our financial results, shareholder meetings and dividends, as well as a Shareholders FAQ section.
E-Communications We are encouraging our shareholders to receive their information by e-mail and via our website.
Not only is this quicker for shareholders to receive information, it helps to reduce paper, printing and costs.
To register for e-communications log on to www.
co. uk ecomms Facebook f Logo CMYK.
eps Follow us Annual and Interim Reports Our Annual Report is available online.
You can view or download the full Annual Report and Interim Report from our website at www.
Current and past Annual and Interim Reports are also available to view and download.
Managing your shareholding online with investor centre Investor Centre is a free, secure online service run by Computershare, giving you convenient access to information on your shareholdings.
Manage your shareholding online and take advantage of all these features and more: View share balances and market values for all of your  holdings.
Update dividend mandate bank instructions and view dividend payment history.
Register to receive company communications online.
Cast your Proxy Vote online for forthcoming General Meetings.
Update personal details, such as your address.
Registration is quick and easy.
co. uk with your Shareholder Reference Number SRN to hand.
After registering you will be sent an activation code in the post, used to validate your account.
Once activated, you will have full access to Investor Centre services.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 215 Financial Statements Shareholder Information continued Ordinary shareholder analysis at 31 December 2016 By holding size No.
Further details are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2017 which is available to download from our website at www.
weir  agm Voting Information on how you can vote electronically on the resolutions which will be put forward at our 2017 AGM can be obtained through our Registrar by visiting www.
You will need details of the Control Number, your SRN and PIN which can be found on the Form of Proxy or e-mail, if you have opted for e-mail communications.
Dividends 2016 final dividend The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 29.0 pence per share, for the period ended 31 December 2016.
Payment of this dividend is subject to approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Key dates relating to this dividend are given below.
Annual General Meeting 27 April 2017 Ex-dividend date 27 April 2017 Record date 28 April 2017 Final day for receipt of scrip elections 24 May 2017 Payment date 5 June 2017 Dividend history pence per share 2013 2014 2015 2016 Interim 8.8 15.0 15.0 15.0 Final 33.2 29.0 29.0 29.0 Total 42.0 44.0 44.0 44.0 Dividend payments You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways.
Dividends will automatically be paid to you by cheque and sent to your registered address unless you have chosen one of the options below: Direct payment to your bank The best way to ensure that dividends are received as quickly as possible is to have your dividends paid directly to a UK bank or building society account.
This is more convenient and helps reduce the risk of cheques becoming lost or delayed in the post.
To switch to this method of payment you can register online or download a Dividend Mandate Form by selecting Downloadable Forms at www.
The form can also be accessed via the FAQ section on the Companys website at www.
Alternatively, you can contact Computershare, who will also be able to assist with any questions you may have.
An Annual Dividend Confirmation detailing all payments made throughout the tax year will then be sent to you either electronically or to your registered address.
In 2017, the Dividend Confirmation will be dispatched with the November 2017 dividend payment and will contain the payment information for dividends paid during the 2017 2018 tax year.
Global Payment Service If you live overseas, Computershare offers a Global Payment Service which is available in certain countries.
This may make it possible to receive dividends direct into your bank account in your local currency.
Please note that the fees applied for this service will be automatically deducted from the proceeds before it is paid to you.
For further details go to www.
co. uk faq and select the Dividends and Payments tab followed by Global Payment Service.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 216 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Scrip Dividend Scheme Shareholders may elect to participate in the Companys Scrip Dividend Scheme SCRIP.
The SCRIP provides shareholders with the option to receive new fully paid ordinary shares in place of their cash dividend.
Shareholders who participate in the SCRIP will be able to increase their shareholding in a simple, cost effective way without incurring dealing costs or stamp duty.
All UK shareholders, including CREST members, can join the SCRIP, although certain restrictions apply to overseas shareholders.
Holders of the Companys American Depository Receipts ADRs are not eligible to join the SCRIP.
The price for the SCRIP dividend will be announced on 5 May 2017.
The final date for receipt of SCRIP elections will be 24 May 2017.
The 2016 final dividend will be paid on 5 June 2017.
American Depositary Receipt ADR programme The Company has a sponsored level 1 ADR programme in the United States.
Each ADR represents 2 ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each, in the Company.
The Companys ADR programme is administered by Citibank, who were appointed in February 2016.
ADR investor contact Telephone: 1 781 575 4555 Citibank representatives are available from 8:30am to 6:00pm US Eastern Standard Time EST Monday to Friday.
com In writing Citibank Shareholder Services P. O.
Box 43077 Providence, Rhode Island 029403077 ADR broker contact Telephone: 1 212 723 5435 44 207 500 2030 E-mail: citiadr@citi.
com Dividend tax allowance From April 2016, dividend tax credits have been replaced by an annual 5,000 tax free allowance on dividend income across an individuals entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on their dividend income at a rate dependent on their income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
We will continue to provide registered shareholders with confirmation of the dividends paid and this should be included with any other dividend income received when calculating and reporting total dividend income received.
It is a shareholders responsibility to include all dividend income when calculating any tax liability.
This provision in enshrined in the Finance Act 2016.
If you have any tax queries, please contact a financial advisor.
United Kingdom capital gains tax For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of an ordinary share of The Weir Group PLC as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p.
This market value has been adjusted to take account of the sub-division of the share capital whereby each ordinary share of 25p was sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each on 28 June 1993.
Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every seven ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every five ordinary shares held and in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every four ordinary shares held.
Share dealing services Shareholders have the opportunity to buy or sell The Weir Group PLC shares using a share dealing facility operated by our Registrar, Computershare.
Internet share dealing commission is 1% of the value of each sale or purchase of shares, subject to a minimum charge of 30.
In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
There is no need to open a trading account in order to deal.
Real time dealing is available during market hours 08:00 to 16:30 Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays.
In addition, there is a convenient facility to place your order outside of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales.
To access the service, go to www.
co. uk and select the Share Activities tab followed by Share Dealing.
Shareholders should have their SRN available.
The SRN appears on share certificates and dividend documentation.
Please note that, at present, this service is only available to shareholders in certain jurisdictions.
Please refer to the Computershare website for an up-to-date list of these countries.
Telephone share dealing commission is 1% of the value of each sale or purchase of shares, plus 35.
You can contact Computershare on 0370 703 0084.
Shareholders should have their SRN ready when making the call.
Detailed terms and conditions are available at www.
co. uk or by contacting Computershare.
Please note this service is, at present, only available to shareholders resident in certain jurisdictions.
These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to the applicable terms and conditions.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in The Weir Group PLC.
Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take should obtain independent financial advice.
Share values may go down as well as up which may result in a shareholder receiving less than he she originally invested.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 217 Financial Statements Shareholder Information continued Shareholder warning alert Unsolicited investment advice and fraud Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
Share scams are often run from boiler rooms where fraudsters cold-call investors offering them worthless, overpriced or even non-existent shares.
These callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and their activities have resulted in considerable losses for some investors.
Whilst usually by telephone, the high-pressure sales tactics can also come by email, post, word of mouth or at a seminar.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, sell your shares at a premium or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and take a note of any other details they provide, such as a telephone number or address.
Check that the caller is properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA by visiting www.
Report any approach from such organisations to the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk consumers , where you can also find out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Please note that if you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 218
