Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of The Weir Group PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the period ended 31 December 2016 2016 were approved and authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 22 February 2017.
The comparative information is presented for the period ended 1 January 2016 2015.
For the 52 week period ended 1 January 2016 and previous periods, the Group has reported its financial statements to the week ending closest to the Company reference date of 31 December.
For practical purposes, a decision was made to alter the reporting basis to reflect a calendar year, with the current period being to the annual report date of 31 December 2016.
This has not significantly impacted the reported results in 2016.
The Weir Group PLC is a limited company incorporated in Scotland and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of The Weir Group PLC have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 3.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements are presented in Sterling.
All values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million pounds m except where otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies which follow are consistent with those of the previous period.
Several new amendments apply for the first time in 2016: Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations Amendments to IFRS 11: Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 cycle: and Disclosure initiative Amendments to IAS 1.
In addition to the above there are no other new standards or interpretations which are considered to have a material impact on the annual consolidated financial statements of the Group.
The European Markets and Securities Authority has issued Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures which are effective from 3 July 2016 and which have been followed in explaining the Groups use of non-GAAP measures in the annual report.
Further details are provided below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of The Weir Group PLC and its subsidiaries, and the Groups share of results of its joint ventures.
The financial statements of subsidiaries and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Company using consistent accounting policies.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company, where control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The results of a subsidiary acquired during the period are included in the Groups results from the effective date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The results of a subsidiary sold during the period are included in the Groups results up to the effective date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and are presented within equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, separately from the Company shareholders equity.
A full list of the Companys related undertakings can be found on page 197.
Comparative period restatements i Discontinued operations During the current period, the Group has disposed of its non-core renewable assets which formed part of the Flow Control division.
These businesses are therefore treated as discontinued operations.
As a result of this, these financial statements have been re-presented and restated where required as if operations discontinued during the current year had been discontinued from the start of the comparative period note 8.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 128 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements ii Business combinations update to provisional fair values During the year, the provisional fair values attributed to the 2015 Delta Industrial Valves, Inc. Delta Valves acquisition were finalised.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the net impact of the adjustments to the provisional fair values has been recognised by means of an increase to goodwill and the adjustments to the provisional amounts have been recognised as if the accounting for the business combination had been completed at the relevant acquisition date.
As such, all affected balances and amounts have been restated in the financial statements.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet and affected notes present restated comparative information as at 1 January 2016.
There was no material impact on the Consolidated Income Statement or Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as a result of the finalisation of the provisional fair values.
The table below reflects the adjustments made to finalise the Delta Valves fair values.
Provisional Final fair fair values values 1 January 1 January Adjustments 2016 2016 to fair values m m m Trade & other payables 3.1 3.3 0.2 Goodwill arising on acquisition 14.8 15.0 0.2 Impact on net assets Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation In order to provide the users of the financial statements with a more relevant presentation of the Groups underlying performance, on a like for like basis, profit for each period has been analysed between: i profit before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation: and ii the effect of exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
Exceptional items are items of income and expense which, because of the nature, size and or infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation.
These specific items are presented on the face of the income statement to provide greater clarity and a better understanding of the impact of these items on the Groups financial performance.
In doing so, it also facilitates greater comparison of the Groups underlying results with prior periods and assessment of trends in financial performance.
This split is consistent with how underlying business performance is measured internally.
Exceptional items may include but are not restricted to: profits or losses arising on disposal or closure of businesses, the cost of significant business restructuring, significant impairments of intangible or tangible assets, adjustments to the fair value of acquisition related items such as contingent consideration and inventory, other items deemed exceptional due to their significance, size or nature, and the related exceptional taxation.
Intangibles amortisation has been shown separately to provide visibility over the ongoing impact on the Groups income statement of prior and current year period investment activities.
Further analysis of the items included in the column Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation is provided in note 5 to the financial statements.
Use of estimates & judgements The Groups significant accounting policies are set out below.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements, in conformity with IFRS, requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expense.
Management base these judgements, estimates and assumptions on a combination of past experience, professional expert advice and other evidence that is relevant to each individual circumstance.
Actual results may differ from these estimates, judgements and assumptions, which are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised.
Areas requiring significant judgement and estimate in the current period and on a recurring basis are discussed with the Audit Committee, as summarised on page 81.
The areas where management consider the more complex estimates, judgements and assumptions are required are those in respect of: i Exceptional items Certain exceptional items require the application of judgement and estimate due to their nature and the events which give rise to them.
Examples of exceptional items are noted above, and may include acquisition accounting, impairment and provisions as described below.
Management approach each exceptional item on an individual basis and details of those recorded in the period are reflected in note 5.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 129 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Use of estimates & judgements continued ii Acquisition accounting On the acquisition of a business, management assess: i the Purchase Price Allocation PPA in order to attribute fair values to separately identifiable intangible assets providing they meet the recognition criteria: ii the fair values of other assets and liabilities: and iii the fair value of contingent consideration.
The fair values of these intangible assets are dependent on estimates of attributable future revenues, margins and cash flows, as well as appropriate discount rates.
In addition, the allocation of useful lives to acquired intangible assets requires the application of judgement based on available information and management expectations at the time of recognition.
The valuation of other tangible assets and liabilities involves aligning accounting policies with those of the Group, reflecting appropriate external market valuations for property, plant & equipment, assessing recoverability of receivables and inventory, and exposures to unrecorded liabilities.
The fair value of contingent consideration is based on a variety of factors, often including estimates of future revenues, margins and cash flows as well as appropriate discount rates.
In deriving appropriate fair values the process will inevitably involve the use of estimates and the application of management judgement.
The disclosure in relation to Business Combinations, including both current year acquisitions and contingent consideration associated with previous acquisitions, is provided in note 13. iii Impairment IFRS requires companies to carry out impairment testing on any assets that show indications of impairment, as well as annually for goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives and so not subject to amortisation.
This testing includes exercising management judgement in estimating future revenues, margins, cash flows, discount rates, growth rates and other events which are, by their nature, uncertain.
During 2016 impairment testing over the Groups cash generating units CGUs was performed and the details and results of this exercise are reported in note 14. iv Retirement benefits The assumptions underlying the valuation of retirement benefit assets and liabilities include discount rates, inflation rates and mortality assumptions which are based on actuarial advice.
Changes in these assumptions could have a material impact on the measurement of the Groups retirement benefit obligations.
Sensitivities to changes in key assumptions are provided in note 24. v Provisions Management judgement is used to determine the amount of provisions taking into account the commercial drivers which gave rise to them, associated cash flows and discount rates, the Groups previous experience of similar obligations and the progress of any associated legal proceedings.
The key provisions which currently require management judgement are included in note 22. vi Valuation of inventory Provision for inventory is assessed by management on a regular basis.
Historical usage as well as anticipated future demand is considered note 16.
Where changes to these factors occur during the period this may impact on the assumption integral to managements assessment of the provision and the overall valuation.
Any changes are recognised in the income statement in the period.
vii Taxation The level of current and deferred tax recognised in the financial statements is dependent on subjective judgements as to the interpretation of complex international tax regulations and, in some cases, the outcome of decisions by tax authorities in various jurisdictions around the world, together with the ability of the Group to utilise tax attributes within the limits imposed by the relevant tax legislation.
In all cases, provisions for open tax issues are based on managements interpretation of tax law as supported where appropriate by the Groups external advisors, and reflect the single best estimate of likely outcome for each liability.
The Group believes it has made adequate provision for such matters.
Detailed tax disclosures are provided in notes 7 and 23. viii Legal claims The Company and certain subsidiaries are, from time to time, party to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business.
Management apply judgement in the accounting for these items based on the specific circumstances and where relevant, guidance from third party advisors.
This includes whether a provision is required or where appropriate details are reflected as Commitments in note 27.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 130 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Joint ventures The Group has a number of long-term contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures.
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Groups interests in the results and assets and liabilities of its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
These investments are carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets less any impairment in value.
The income statement reflects the share of results of operations of these investments after tax.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the investees equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this when applicable in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a joint venture, representing the excess of the cost of the investment over the Groups share of the net fair value of the joint ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the joint venture and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the joint ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Groups share of the joint ventures profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.
Foreign currency translation The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
At entity level, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the entitys functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences are recognised in the income statement except when hedge accounting is applied and for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are recognised in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the results of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate for the period and their assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences, including those on monetary items that form part of a net investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve and in other comprehensive income.
In the event that a foreign operation is sold, the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement is determined after taking into account the cumulative currency translation differences that are attributable to the operation.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected to deem cumulative currency translation differences to be nil as at 27 December 2003.
Accordingly, the gain or loss on disposal of a foreign operation does not include currency translation differences arising before that date.
In the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the cash flows of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate for the period.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, and to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is shown net of sales taxes, discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
i Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, usually on despatch of goods, and reliable measurement is possible.
No revenue is recognised where recovery of the consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding associated costs, or the possible return of goods.
Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale.
Where the sale of product requires customer inspection, revenue is not recognised until the inspection has been completed and approved by the customer.
This policy is applicable to the sale of both original equipment and spare parts, whether sold individually, in bulk or as part of a cross-selling marketing strategy.
ii Provision of services Revenue from the rendering of services is generally recognised on completion if the service contract is short-term in nature.
Where this is not the case, revenue from services is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement with each separate customer and the costs incurred on the contract to date in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract.
Revenue recognition commences only when the outcome of the contract can be reliably measured, by reference to individual terms and conditions within each service contract, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the Group.
Otherwise it is recognised to the extent costs are incurred.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 131 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued iii Construction contracts Construction contracts usually contain discrete elements separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer.
The stage of completion of a contract is determined either by reference to the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, or by reference to the completion of a physical proportion of the contract work.
The basis used is dependent upon the nature of the underlying contract and takes into account the degree to which the physical proportion of the work is subject to formal customer acceptance procedures.
Losses on contracts are recognised in the period when such losses become probable.
Construction contracts are primarily entered into by the Groups Engineer to Order businesses.
Property, plant & equipment Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Cost includes borrowing costs for qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment, other than freehold land and assets under construction, is provided on a straight-line basis so as to charge the cost less residual value, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, to the income statement over the expected useful life of the asset concerned, and is in the following ranges: Freehold buildings, long leasehold land & buildings 10 40 years Short leasehold land & buildings duration of lease Plant & equipment 3 20 years Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of businesses and represents any excess of the cost of the acquired entity over the Groups interest in the fair value of the entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities determined at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Goodwill in respect of an acquired business is recognised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill is tested at least annually or where there are indicators of impairment and is carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses.
During the acquisition period or subsequent measurement period, where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entitys assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid, the excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit.
Any contingent consideration is recognised at the date of acquisition or disposal.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are either adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below or are reflected in the income statement or proceeds from disposal.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at cost on initial recognition.
An intangible resource acquired in a business combination is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value can be measured reliably.
An intangible asset with a finite life is amortised on a straight-line basis so as to charge its cost, which in respect of an acquired intangible asset represents its fair value at the acquisition date, to the income statement over its expected useful life.
An intangible asset with an indefinite life is not amortised but is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses.
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant & equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis so as to charge the cost of the software to the income statement over its expected useful life, not exceeding eight years.
The expected useful lives of acquired intangible assets are as follows: Brand names indefinite life Customer & distributor relationships 5 25 years Purchased software 4 8 years Intellectual property & trade marks 6 15 years Other up to 6 years The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 132 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Research & development costs All research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it relates to the development of a new product or technology and it is incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the product has been proven, the development costs can be measured reliably, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends, and has sufficient resources, to complete the development and to use or sell the asset.
Any such capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight-line basis so that it is charged to the income statement over the expected life of the resulting product or technology.
Impairment of non-current assets All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying values might be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with an indefinite life and any capitalised development expenditure are subject to an annual impairment test.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that an assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
An assets value in use represents the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is conducted for the cash generating unit to which it belongs.
Similarly, the recoverable amount of goodwill is determined by reference to the discounted future cash flows of the cash generating units to which it is allocated.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount.
The carrying amount of an asset shall not be increased above the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
Cost represents the expenditure incurred in bringing inventories to their existing location and condition and comprises the cost of raw materials, direct labour costs, other direct costs and related production overheads.
Raw material cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs to complete and sell.
Financial assets & liabilities The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, short-term borrowings, loans and fixed rate notes, commercial paper, cash and short-term deposits.
The Group also has other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables which arise directly from its operations, and contingent consideration in relation to acquisitions.
A financial asset is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Trade receivables Trade receivables, which are generally of a short-term nature, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Cash & cash equivalents Cash & cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits available on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity on acquisition of three months or less and bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings with a maturity on acquisition of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount.
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to settle the liability at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 133 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, the obligation can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Derivative financial instruments & hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps, to reduce its exposure to exchange rate movements.
The Group also uses foreign currency borrowings as a hedge of its exposure to foreign exchange risk on its investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Additionally, the Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate risk.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on spot and forward foreign exchange rates and counterparty and the Groups own credit risk.
The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on interest rate curves, spot foreign exchange rates and counterparty and own credit risk.
Changes in their fair values have been recognised in the income statement, except where hedge accounting is used, provided the conditions specified by IAS 39 are met.
Hedge accounting is applied in respect of hedge relationships where it is both permissible under IAS 39 and practical to do so.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges, as appropriate.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability will be adjusted by the increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss will be recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow or net investment hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in other comprehensive income rather than in the income statement.
When the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income will be either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged item results in a non-financial asset, will be recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is kept in other comprehensive income until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are recognised separately as derivative financial instruments when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not stated at its fair value with changes in its fair value recognised in the income statement.
Share-based payments Equity settled share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and as a consequence of occasional one-off conditional awards made to employees.
The fair value of the LTIP or other conditional awards at the date of the grant is calculated using appropriate option pricing models and the cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to failure to satisfy service or performance conditions.
The changes to the LTIP which took effect in 2014 are summarised in the Directors Remuneration Policy which can be found on the Companys website, www.
The last equity settled grant under the Executive Bonus Scheme EBS was during 2013.
The previously granted equity settled incentives under the EBS were determined as a percentage of the annual bonus and were matched by the Group with a share award that would vest on the third anniversary of the grant date, provided the individual continued to hold the original bonus shares awarded and continued to be employed by the Company at the date of vesting.
In addition the EBS included a strategic bonus shares element for a limited number of senior employees.
The fair value of the matching and strategic elements of the EBS was determined at the date of grant of the bonus and the cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Group recognises a compensation cost in respect of this plan that is based on the fair value of the awards granted.
The fair value was determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modified.
Treasury shares The Weir Group PLC shares held by the Company are classified in shareholders equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken directly to retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in total comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 134 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Post-employment benefits Post-employment benefits comprise pension benefits provided to certain current and former employees in the UK, USA and Canada and post-retirement healthcare benefits provided to certain employees in the USA.
For defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare plans, the annual service cost is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is recognised over the future service lives of participating employees, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Current service cost and administration expenses are recognised in operating costs and net interest on net pension liability is recognised in finance costs.
The finance cost recognised in the income statement in the period reflects the net interest on the net pension liability.
This represents the change in the net pension liability resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening net liability, taking into account employer contributions paid into the plan, and hence reducing the net liability, during the period.
Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses, which represent differences between interest on the plan assets, experience on the benefit obligation and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
The defined benefit liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet comprises the net total for each plan of the present value of the benefit obligation, using a discount rate based on yields at the balance sheet date on appropriate high quality corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations and are denominated in the currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid, minus the fair value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date.
The balance sheet asset recognised is limited to the present value of economic benefits which the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
In order to calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is also given to any minimum funding requirements.
For defined contribution plans, the cost represents the Groups contributions to the plans and these are charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due, along with any associated administration costs.
Leases Leases which transfer to the Group substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are included within property, plant & equipment, initially measured at their fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, and a corresponding liability is recognised within obligations under finance leases.
Subsequently, the assets are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter.
At the inception of the lease, the lease rentals are apportioned between an interest element and a capital element so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the outstanding liability.
Subsequently, the interest element is recognised as a charge to the income statement while the capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding liability.
Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Taxation Current tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the period.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base with the following exceptions: i deferred tax arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination, that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised: ii deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and iii a deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities represent tax payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets represent tax recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unutilised tax losses and the carry forward of unused tax credits.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except if it relates to an item recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised directly in equity.
The level of current and deferred tax recognised in the financial statements is dependent on subjective judgements as to the interpretation of complex international tax regulations and, in some cases, the outcome of decisions by tax authorities in various jurisdictions around the world, together with the ability of the Group to utilise tax attributes within the limits imposed by the relevant tax legislation.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 135 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Taxation continued The Group faces a variety of tax risks which result from operating in a complex global environment.
These risks include: i uncertainty created by the rapidly evolving international tax landscape and anticipated reform of both international and domestic tax rules in some of the Groups larger markets means the benefits from existing intra-group financing arrangements may be reduced in future periods: and ii the challenge to fulfil ongoing tax compliance filing and transfer pricing obligations given the scale and diversity of the Groups global operations.
The Group makes provision for open tax issues including, in a number of jurisdictions, ongoing tax audits which are by nature complex and can take a number of years to resolve.
In all cases, provisions are based on managements interpretation of tax law in each country, as supported where appropriate by discussion and analysis undertaken by the Groups external advisors, and reflect the single best estimate of likely outcome for each liability.
The risk that the application of management judgements and estimates in tax provisioning in the financial statements fails to present a true and fair view of the tax position is a risk which receives significant focus from management, tax advisers and auditors.
Actions to mitigate this risk include the following: i local reporting entities prepare tax provisions and balances in accordance with Group Accounting Policy: ii procedures are in place to escalate issues to Group level and the Group tax team is involved in the progression and completion of tax audits: iii tax data in the financial statements, is reviewed quarterly in alignment with the broader quarterly financial reporting process.
Variances against forecast are measured to ensure that movements in the effective tax rate are explained: iv external tax advisers either prepare or review the annual tax provisions and balances and are involved with the identification and management of transfer pricing policies and related documentation and filing requirements: v tax is a significant financial reporting matter regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee: and vi the external auditor reviews the tax figures in the interim statement and audits the tax figures and disclosures in the annual report and financial statements.
Detailed tax disclosures are provided in notes 7 and 23.
New standards & interpretations The International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee have issued the following standards, amendments and interpretations, which are considered relevant to the Group, with an effective date after the period covered by these financial statements.
International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS Effective date for periods commencing Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017 Amendments to IFRS 2: Share-based Payments 1 January 2018 IFRS 9: Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16: Leases 1 January 2019 Not yet endorsed for use in the European Union.
The above standards and interpretations will be adopted in accordance with their effective dates and have not been adopted in these financial statements.
There is not expected to be a significant impact on the 2017 financial statements as a result of the standards effective from 1 January 2017.
Impact assessments for both IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 are currently underway.
IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
As the Group does not hold significant assets or liabilities, the impact of implementing IFRS 9 is expected to be minimal.
IFRS 15 is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer.
The standard permits either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach for the adoption.
Based on the preliminary assessment, there are certain areas expected to impact the Group and in particular our Engineer to Order business, but at present management do not believe that the adoption of IFRS 15 will have a material impact on the Groups financial results.
Initial planning has commenced for an assessment of the impact of the other standards applicable from 2018 and 2019.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 136 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Non-GAAP measures The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In measuring our performance, the financial measures that we use include those which have been derived from our reported results in order to eliminate factors which distort period-on-period comparisons.
These are considered non-GAAP financial measures.
We believe this information, along with comparable GAAP measurements, is useful to investors in providing a basis for measuring our operational performance.
Our management uses these financial measures, along with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, in evaluating our performance and value creation.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information in compliance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by the Group may not be comparable with similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.
Below we set out our definitions of non-GAAP measures and provide reconciliations to relevant GAAP measures.
Free cash flow Free cash flow FCF is defined as cash flow from operating activities adjusted for income taxes, net capital expenditures, net interest payments, dividends paid, settlement of derivatives and pension contributions.
FCF reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that we believe is useful to investors as it represents cash flows that could be used for repayment of debt or to fund our strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, if any.
The reconciliation of cash flow from operating activities to FCF is as follows.
2016 2015 m m Cash flow from operating activities 292.6 396.5 Income tax paid 15.7 50.4 Net capital expenditure from purchase & disposal of property, plant & equipment and intangibles 62.4 87.7 Net interest paid 39.8 37.9 Dividends paid to equity holders of the Company 45.8 94.0 Dividends received from joint ventures 7.3 10.0 Settlement of derivative financial instruments 3.7 1.7 Additional pension contributions paid 2.8 2.6 129.7 132.2 EBITDA EBITDA is operating profit from continuing operations, before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation, excluding depreciation.
EBITDA is used in conjunction with other GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures to assess our operating performance.
A reconciliation of EBITDA to the closest equivalent GAAP measure, operating profit, is provided.
Restated note 2 2016 2015 m m Continuing operations Operating profit loss 90.3 133.1 Adjusted for: Intangibles amortisation note 5 50.2 51.8 Exceptional items note 5 73.5 338.8 Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 55.9 62.0 269.9 319.5 Net debt A reconciliation of net debt to cash & short-term deposits, interest bearing loans and borrowings is provided in note 26.
Segment information For strategic reasons, the Group has re-organised its three operating divisions: Minerals, Oil & Gas and Flow Control previously Minerals, Oil & Gas and Power & Industrial.
The strategic restructuring of the Power & Industrial division led to it being renamed Weir Flow Control and it now incorporates the  pump businesses Floway and Gabbioneta, which were previously in the Minerals and Oil & Gas divisions respectively.
This created a division clearly focused on flow control opportunities in power, oil and gas and other process industries.
Comparative information has been restated to reflect the change in management structure.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 137 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 3.
Segment information continued These three divisions are organised and managed separately based on the key markets served and each is treated as an operating segment and a reportable segment under IFRS 8.
The operating and reportable segments were determined based on the reports reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer which are used to make operational decisions.
The Minerals segment is the global leader in the provision of slurry handling equipment and associated aftermarket support for abrasive high wear applications used in the mining and oil sands markets.
The Oil & Gas segment provides products and service solutions to upstream, production, transportation, refining and related industries.
The Flow Control segment designs and manufactures valves and pumps as well as providing specialist support services to the global power generation, industrial and oil and gas sectors.
The Chief Executive Officer assesses the performance of the operating segments based on operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items including impairments and intangibles amortisation segment result.
Finance income and expenditure and associated interest-bearing liabilities and derivative financial instruments are not allocated to segments as all treasury activity is managed centrally by the Group treasury function.
The amounts provided to the Chief Executive Officer with respect to assets and liabilities are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
The assets are allocated based on the operations of the segment and the physical location of the asset.
The liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arms length basis, in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The segment information for the reportable segments for 2016 and 2015 is disclosed below.
Minerals Oil & Gas Flow Control Total continuing operations Restated Restated Restated Restated note 2 note 2 note 2 note 2 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m m m Revenue Sales to external customers 1,112.0 1,000.8 401.4 541.4 331.5 337.6 1,844.9 1,879.8 Inter-segment sales 6.1 4.4 12.8 13.5 14.7 15.5 33.6 33.4 Segment revenue 1,118.1 1,005.2 414.2 554.9 346.2 353.1 1,878.5 1,913.2 33.6 33.4 Eliminations 1,844.9 1,879.8 Sales to external customers 2015 at 2016 average exchange rates Sales to external customers 1,112.0 1,091.0 401.4 603.7 331.5 368.5 1,844.9 2,063.2 Segment result Segment result before share of results of joint ventures 217.0 192.4 16.2 43.5 30.1 32.2 230.9 268.1 Share of results of joint ventures 7.2 8.3 7.2 8.3 Segment result 217.0 192.4 9.0 51.8 30.1 32.2 238.1 276.4 24.1 18.9 Unallocated expenses 214.0 257.5 Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 127.5 393.0 Total exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 40.7 35.5 Net finance costs before exceptional items 3.0 3.3 Other finance costs retirement benefits 42.8 174.3 Profit loss before tax from continuing operations Segment result 2015 at 2016 average exchange rates Segment result before share of results of joint ventures 217.0 212.7 16.2 49.1 30.1 36.0 230.9 297.8 Share of results of joint ventures 7.2 9.3 7.2 9.3 Segment result 217.0 212.7 9.0 58.4 30.1 36.0 238.1 307.1 24.1 19.0 Unallocated expenses 214.0 288.1 Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation There are no material revenues derived from a single external customer.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 138 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Minerals Oil & Gas Flow Control Total Group Restated Restated Restated Restated note 2 note 2 note 2 note 2 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m m m Assets & liabilities Intangible assets 652.4 562.0 815.2 703.9 137.5 130.0 1,605.1 1,395.9 Property, plant & equipment 226.1 191.6 90.9 115.6 75.4 61.5 392.4 368.7 Working capital assets 523.0 422.9 290.2 277.4 248.0 245.8 1,061.2 946.1 1,401.5 1,176.5 1,196.3 1,096.9 460.9 437.3 3,058.7 2,710.7 Investments in joint ventures 40.5 33.4 40.5 33.4 Segment assets 1,401.5 1,176.5 1,236.8 1,130.3 460.9 437.3 3,099.2 2,744.1 37.3 Discontinued operations 424.5 290.5 Unallocated assets 3,523.7 3,071.9 Total assets Working capital liabilities 311.6 254.8 150.6 124.3 169.4 181.5 631.6 560.6 7.9 Discontinued operations 1,508.5 1,305.6 Unallocated liabilities 2,140.1 1,874.1 Total liabilities Other segment information total Group Segment additions to non-current assets 33.0 36.2 10.3 23.7 15.6 18.7 58.9 78.6 1.1 Discontinued operations 18.9 10.2 Unallocated additions to non-current assets 77.8 89.9 Total additions to non-current assets Other segment information total Group Segment depreciation & amortisation 42.2 42.9 49.1 55.7 12.1 12.2 103.4 110.8 Impairment of property, plant & equipment 2.3 2.9 4.1 32.6 2.0 0.7 8.4 36.2 Impairment of intangible assets 0.4 225.5 0.4 225.5 0.4 28.0 Discontinued operations 2.7 3.0 Unallocated depreciation & amortisation 115.3 403.5 Total depreciation, amortisation & impairment Unallocated assets primarily comprise cash and short-term deposits, derivative financial instruments, income tax receivable, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit surpluses as well as those assets which are used for general head office purposes.
Unallocated liabilities primarily comprise interest-bearing loans and borrowings, derivative financial instruments, income tax payable, provisions, deferred tax liabilities and retirement benefit deficits as well as liabilities relating to general head office activities.
Segment additions to non-current assets do not include those additions which have arisen from business combinations note 13.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 139 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 3.
Segment information continued Geographical information Geographical information in respect of revenue and non-current assets for 2016 and 2015 is disclosed below.
Revenues are allocated based on the location to which the product is shipped.
Assets are allocated based on the location of the assets and operations.
Non-current assets consist of property, plant & equipment, intangible assets and investments in joint ventures.
Europe Asia South Middle East UK USA Canada & FSU Pacific Australia America & Africa Total Period ended 31 December 2016 m m m m m m m m m Revenue from continuing operations Sales to external customers 74.9 474.5 180.8 153.9 257.7 178.3 261.2 263.6 1,844.9 Non-current assets 366.5 847.7 44.1 168.1 290.1 157.4 63.8 133.6 2,071.3 Europe Asia South Middle East Period ended 1 January 2016 UK USA Canada & FSU Pacific Australia America & Africa Total Restated note 2 m m m m m m m m m Revenue from continuing operations Sales to external customers 93.5 541.4 181.6 137.6 247.2 146.6 244.1 287.8 1,879.8 Non-current assets 178.8 895.8 48.5 135.0 269.9 155.2 44.6 105.7 1,833.5 The following disclosures are given in relation to continuing operations.
Restated note 2 2016 2015 m m An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows Original equipment 523.2 526.6 Aftermarket parts 982.8 939.5 Sales of goods 1,506.0 1,466.1 Aftermarket services 282.1 366.4 Revenue from construction contracts 56.8 47.3 Revenue 1,844.9 1,879.8 4.
Revenues & expenses The following disclosures are given in relation to continuing operations and exclude exceptional items & intangibles amortisation.
Restated note 2 2016 2015 m m A reconciliation of revenue to operating profit is as follows Revenue 1,844.9 1,879.8 Cost of sales 1,241.7 1,248.3 Gross profit 603.2 631.5 Other operating income 5.6 9.2 Selling & distribution costs 221.1 206.6 Administrative expenses 180.9 184.9 Share of results of joint ventures 7.2 8.3 Operating profit 214.0 257.5 Details of exceptional items and intangibles amortisation are provided in note 5.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 140 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Restated note 2 2016 2015 m m Operating profit loss from continuing operations is stated after charging Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,241.7 1,248.3 Depreciation of property, plant & equipment note 11 55.9 62.0 Amortisation of intangible assets note 12 50.2 51.8 Acquisition transaction costs 0.3 Acquisition integration costs 0.4 4.5 Exceptional items note 5 73.5 338.8 Net foreign exchange losses 6.6 3.8 Net impairment of trade receivables excluding additional restructuring action amounts note 17 1.0 4.9 Depreciation of property, plant & equipment note 11 for discontinued operations was 0.3m 2015: 1.4m.
Amortisation of intangible assets note 12 for discontinued operations was 0.1m 2015: 0.7m.
Research & development costs Research & development costs amount to 27.4m 2015: 29.0m of which 25.9m 2015: 27.0m was charged directly to cost of sales in the income statement and 1.5m 2015: 2.0m was capitalised note 12.
Operating leases Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the period were 45.3m 2015: 43.9m.
Restated note 2 2016 2015 m m Employee benefits expense Wages & salaries 487.0 470.9 Social security costs 46.8 45.2 Pension costs Defined benefit plans note 24 0.5 1.7 Defined contribution plans 20.3 17.8 Share-based payments equity settled transactions 4.1 2.3 558.7 533.3 Details of Directors remuneration is disclosed in note 29.
Restated note 2 2016 2015 Number Number The average monthly number of people employed by the Company and its subsidiaries is as follows Minerals 7,999 8,441 Oil & Gas 2,393 2,943 Flow Control 2,725 2,892 Group companies 89 97 13,206 14,373 The following disclosures are given in relation to total operations.
At 31 December 2016, the number of people employed by the Group and including those under temporary contracts was 13,687 2015: 14,720.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 141 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 4.
Revenues & expenses continued 2016 2015 m m Auditors remuneration The total fees payable by the Group to our auditors for work performed in respect of the audit and other services provided to the Company and its subsidiary companies during the period are disclosed below Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Company & Group financial statements 0.6 0.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.6 1.3 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 Non-audit services 0.3 Fees payable in respect of the Groups pension schemes Audit 0.1 0.1 Our current auditors,  LLP and their associates were appointed at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2016 replacing Ernst & Young LLP and their associates.
Fees payable in respect of the audit of the Groups pension schemes were payable to Ernst & Young LLP in both 2015 and 2016.
The remaining 2016 fees incorporate only  LLP from the date of appointment 28 April 2016 and 2015 fees are all in respect of Ernst & Young LLP.
Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation Restated note 2 2016 2015 m m Recognised in arriving at operating profit loss from continuing operations Intangibles amortisation note 12 50.2 51.8 Exceptional item intangibles impairment note 12 0.4 225.5 Exceptional item restructuring and rationalisation charges 63.8 116.4 Exceptional item China operations 17.0 Exceptional item gain on sale and leaseback of properties 5.1 Exceptional item legal claims 1.1 Exceptional item charging of fair value inventory uplift 2.4 Exceptional item release of expired indemnity provisions for LGE Process disposal 3.8 Exceptional item fair value adjustment to contingent consideration liability 3.7 1.7 123.7 390.6 Recognised in finance costs Exceptional item unwind in respect of contingent consideration liability 3.8 2.4 Restructuring and rationalisation charges represent the committed cost of 2016 programmes to right size operations and realign certain activities in light of the prolonged downturn across the Groups major end markets.
Actions included headcount reductions, rationalisation of product lines and service centre closures, with the main impact being on Minerals and Oil & Gas.
The total continuing operations exceptional cost of 63.8m comprises 48.7m of cash restructuring costs, an impairment charge of 4.3m relating to inventory, 3.1m relating to receivables and 7.7m in relation to plant & equipment.
The cash outflow in respect of restructuring programmes in the period totals 56.7m with 38.6m relating to 2016 and the remainder to costs incurred in prior years.
A number of warranty, associated inventory and contract liabilities and other unprovided liabilities were identified in our China business during the period primarily relating to Trio which was acquired for $220m in 2014.
The liabilities which primarily result from poor product performance and inventory management over the periods before and after acquisition total 17.0m.
Of this total 9.1m is likely to result in a cash outflow, of which 0.3m was settled in the period, with the balance relating to asset write downs.
Consideration has been given to IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors with no prior year restatement required as a consequence of the identified liabilities.
Local management changes and engineering enhancements to legacy products have been completed and the business remains an important part of the Minerals strategy going forward.
Further details of these liabilities are included on page 72.
An exceptional gain of 5.1m has been recognised on the sale of three North American properties disposed and leased back under the 2016 asset disposal programme.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 142 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements The other exceptional items in the period relate to a fair value adjustment of 3.7m, mainly for Delta Valves and Weir International, 3.8m unwind to contingent consideration liability, being Weir International, 0.4m impairment of intangible assets related to product development and 1.1m of costs associated with the finalisation of prior period legal claims, with the cost being a cash outflow in the year.
Exceptional costs arising on discontinued operations are summarised in note 8.
Finance costs income Finance costs Restated note 2 2016 2015 m m Interest payable on bank loans, fixed rate notes & overdrafts 41.7 35.5 Losses on financial assets & liabilities at fair value through profit & loss 0.9 2.8 Finance charges related to committed loan facilities 2.5 1.9 45.1 40.2 Unwind of discount in respect of contingent consideration exceptional item note 5 3.8 2.4 48.9 42.6 Finance income 2016 2015 m m Interest receivable on financial assets 4.4 3.4 Gains on financial assets & liabilities at fair value through profit & loss 1.3 4.4 4.7 7.
Tax expense Income tax expense Restated note 2 2016 2015 m m Consolidated Income Statement Current income tax UK corporation tax continuing operations 0.1 2.3 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.4 0.5 UK corporation tax 1.5 1.8 Foreign tax continuing operations 43.4 35.2 Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.9 5.1 Total current income tax 44.0 31.9 Deferred income tax Origination & reversal of temporary differences continuing operations 47.1 52.3 Adjustment to estimated recoverable deferred tax assets 0.4 2.0 Effect of changes in tax rates 1.0 0.2 Adjustments in respect of previous years 2.1 4.9 Total deferred tax 44.4 49.6 Total income tax credit in the Consolidated Income Statement 0.4 17.7 Includes 44.5m of deferred tax credit relating to foreign tax 2015: 54.3m credit.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 143 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 7.
Tax expense continued Income tax expense continued The total income tax credit is disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement as follows.
Restated note 2 2016 2015 m m Tax expense credit continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 38.4 52.3 exceptional items 21.0 32.2 intangibles amortisation and impairment 17.8 37.8 Total income tax credit in the Consolidated Income Statement 0.4 17.7 The total deferred tax included in the income tax expense is detailed in note 23.
Tax relating to items charged or credited to equity 2016 2015 m m Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Current tax on pension contributions 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax origination & reversal of temporary differences 10.0 2.5 Deferred tax effect of change in tax rates 1.6 0.2 Tax credit charge on actuarial losses gains on retirement benefits 8.6 2.1 Current tax credit on hedge losses 0.2 1.2 Tax credit charge in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 8.8 0.9 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Deferred tax on share-based payments 0.2 0.3 Tax credit charge in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 0.2 0.3 Reconciliation of the total tax charge The tax credit 2015: credit in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period is lower 2015: lower than the weighted average of standard rates of corporation tax across the Group of 7.6% 2015: 42.0%.
The differences are reconciled below.
Restated note 2 2016 2015 m m Profit loss before tax from continuing operations 42.8 174.3 Loss before tax from discontinued operations 12.7 25.5 Accounting profit loss before tax 30.1 199.8 At the weighted average of standard rates of corporation tax across the Group of 7.6% 2015: 42.0% 2.3 84.0 Adjustments in respect of previous years current tax 2.6 5.6 deferred tax 4.4 4.9 Joint ventures 1.6 1.6 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 1.9 2.0 Overseas tax on unremitted earnings 2.2 4.1 Permanent differences 9.5 7.5 Tax effect of funding overseas operations 22.3 20.8 Effect of changes in tax rates 0.1 0.2 Exceptional items ineligible for tax 2.0 72.5 At effective tax rate of 26.9 % 2015: 10.4% 8.1 20.8 The tax credit of 8.1m consists of a 0.4m credit from continuing operations and a 7.7m credit from discontinued operations.
The increase in permanent differences from a 7.5m addition in 2015 to 9.5m in 2016 arises due to an increase in disallowable expenditure including a 2.0m reduction in manufacturing tax incentives as a result of downturn in US activity and a 3.7m disallowable attributable to movements in non-taxable exchange gain losses across various jurisdictions.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 144 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Finance arrangements are in place to fund the acquisition of business operations in overseas territories.
This finance is provided primarily to US operations through intra Group loans which provide a benefit to the Group effective tax rate.
In addition the Group claims a partial exemption under the UK Controlled Foreign Companies legislation for profits from qualifying loan relationships.
Discontinued operations On 24 February 2016, the Group announced its intention to sell its non-core renewable assets within the Flow Control division: principally Ynfiniti Engineering Services SL and American Hydro Corporation.
The Group initiated an active programme to sell these businesses and the associated assets and liabilities were consequently accounted for as held for sale.
The Group disposed of Ynfiniti Engineering Services SL 31 May 2016, American Hydro Corporation and the trade and assets of the Montreal business of Weir Canada Inc. 30 June 2016 for a combined consideration of 38.4m of which 3.6m will be held in escrow for one year.
In addition, there is a maximum contingent consideration of 1.9m and based on expectations at the date of disposal 0.8m was recognised, of which 0.6m was subsequently received during the year, with the remainder being written off.
The results of these businesses are presented in the financial statements as discontinued operations.
Financial information relating to the discontinued operations for the period to the date of disposal is set out in the table below.
Comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
The exceptional items and intangibles amortisation recognised in the period ended 1 January 2016 relate to impairment of goodwill of 25.9m and intangibles amortisation of 0.7m.
Exceptional items and intangibles amortisation in the current period relate to intangibles amortisation of 0.1m and a charge of 4.0m for reassessment of liabilities related to previous disposals.
There were no disposals of core businesses during the prior period.
Financial performance and cash flow information for discontinued operations Period ended 31 December 2016 Period ended 1 January 2016 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items & items & items & items & intangibles intangibles intangibles intangibles amortisation amortisation Total amortisation amortisation Total m m m m m m Discontinued operations Revenue 19.3 19.3 37.9 37.9 Discontinued operations Operating profit loss 0.3 4.1 3.8 1.4 26.6 25.2 Finance costs 0.3 0.3 Profit loss before tax from discontinued operations 0.3 4.1 3.8 1.1 26.6 25.5 Tax credit expense 0.8 0.8 1.6 0.2 3.3 3.1 Profit loss after tax from discontinued operations 1.1 3.3 2.2 0.9 23.3 22.4 Loss on sale of the subsidiaries after income tax see below 2.8 2.8 Profit loss for the period from discontinued operations 1.1 6.1 5.0 0.9 23.3 22.4 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserve 0.8 0.8 Other comprehensive income from discontinued operations 0.8 0.8 Period Period ended ended 31 December 1 January 2016 2016 m m Cash flows from operating activities 4.4 2.4 Cash flows from investing activities 0.4 0.4 Net decrease increase in cash & cash equivalents from discontinued operations 4.8 2.0 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 145 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 8.
Discontinued operations continued Details of the sale of the subsidiaries Period ended 31 December 2016 m Consideration received Cash received 34.8 Cash in escrow 3.6 Contingent consideration 0.6 Total disposal consideration 39.0 Carrying amount of net assets sold 46.6 Costs of disposal 0.5 Loss on sale before income tax and reclassification of foreign currency translation reserve 8.1 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserve 0.8 Income tax credit on loss 6.1 Loss on sale after income tax 2.8 The carrying amount of assets and liabilities as at the date of sale were as follows.
m Property, plant & equipment 17.2 Intangible assets 21.1 Inventories 0.9 Trade & other receivables 10.9 Cash & short-term deposits 4.0 Trade & other payables 7.1 Provisions 0.4 Net assets 46.6 Loss per share Loss per share from discontinued operations were as follows.
2016 2015 pence pence Basic 2.3 10.5 Diluted 2.3 10.5 These earnings per share figures were derived by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of the Company from discontinued operations by the weighted average number of ordinary shares, for both basic and diluted amounts, shown in note 9.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 146 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements 9.
Earnings loss per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period adjusted for the effect of dilutive share awards.
The following reflects the earnings and share data used in the calculation of earnings per share.
2016 2015 Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company Total operations m 38.3 178.7 Continuing operations m 43.3 156.3 Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation m 132.0 166.7 Weighted average share capital Basic earnings per share number of shares, million 215.6 213.7 Diluted earnings per share number of shares, million 216.9 213.7 The difference between the weighted average share capital for the purposes of the basic and the diluted earnings per share calculations is analysed as follows.
2016 2015 Shares Shares Million Million Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 215.6 213.7 Effect of dilution: LTIP and deferred bonus awards 1.3 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 216.9 213.7 The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company used in the calculation of both basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation is calculated as follows.
2016 2015 m m Net profit loss attributable to equity holders from continuing operations 43.3 156.3 Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation net of tax 88.7 323.0 Net profit attributable to equity holders from continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 132.0 166.7 2016 2015 pence pence Basic earnings loss per share: Total operations 17.8 83.6 Continuing operations 20.1 73.1 Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 61.2 78.0 Diluted earnings loss per share: Total operations 17.7 83.6 Continuing operations 20.0 73.1 Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 60.8 78.0 Adjusted for a loss of 0.1m 2015: 0.3m in respect of non-controlling interests.
There have been no share options 2015: nil exercised between the reporting date and the date of signing of these financial statements.
Earnings per share from discontinued operations are disclosed in note 8.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 147 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 10.
Dividends paid & proposed 2016 2015 m m Declared & paid during the period Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for 2015: 29.0p 2014: 29.0p 62.0 61.9 Interim dividend for 2016: 15.0p 2015: 15.0p 32.5 32.1 94.5 94.0 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Final dividend for 2016: 29.0p 2015: 29.0p 63.1 62.1 For the 2015 final and 2016 interim dividends, shareholders on record were provided the opportunity to receive dividends in the form of new fully paid ordinary shares through The Weir Group PLC Scrip Dividend Scheme.
Participation in the Scheme resulted in shares with a value of 29.6m being issued and a cash dividend of 32.4m for the 2015 final settlement, and shares with a value of 19.1m being issued and a cash dividend of 13.4m for the 2016 interim settlement.
The proposed dividend is based on the number of shares in issue, excluding treasury shares held, at the date the financial statements were approved and authorised for issue.
The final dividend may differ due to increases or decreases in the number of shares in issue between the date of approval of this annual report and financial statements and the record date for the final dividend.
Property, plant & equipment Total property, Land & Plant & plant & buildings equipment equipment m m m Cost At 2 January 2015 190.1 540.6 730.7 Additions 13.1 58.6 71.7 Acquisitions 0.2 0.3 0.5 Disposals 2.5 21.3 23.8 Reclassifications to intangible assets note 12 0.7 0.7 Reclassifications to inventory 0.5 0.5 Reclassifications 4.2 4.2 Exchange adjustment 8.8 20.1 28.9 At 1 January 2016 196.3 552.7 749.0 Additions 19.2 35.1 54.3 Disposals 41.5 33.1 74.6 Disposal of businesses 10.5 16.7 27.2 Reclassifications from to intangible assets note 12 1.4 1.6 0.2 Reclassifications 1.3 1.3 Exchange adjustment 36.0 129.9 165.9 At 31 December 2016 199.6 667.6 867.2 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 148 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Total property, Land & Plant & plant & buildings equipment equipment m m m Accumulated depreciation & impairment At 2 January 2015 44.0 251.7 295.7 Depreciation charge for the period 6.4 57.0 63.4 Impairment during the period 2.7 33.5 36.2 Disposals 2.6 19.2 21.8 Reclassifications to intangible assets note 12 0.4 0.4 Reclassifications to inventory 0.5 0.5 Reclassifications 0.6 0.6 Exchange adjustment 1.3 10.6 11.9 At 1 January 2016 49.8 310.9 360.7 Depreciation charge for the period 6.4 49.8 56.2 Impairment during the period 2.2 6.2 8.4 Disposals 15.6 27.0 42.6 Disposals of businesses 1.5 8.5 10.0 Reclassifications from to intangible assets note 12 0.1 2.2 2.1 Reclassifications 1.0 1.0 Exchange adjustment 10.3 84.3 94.6 At 31 December 2016 50.7 414.5 465.2 Net book value at 2 January 2015 146.1 288.9 435.0 Net book value at 1 January 2016 146.5 241.8 388.3 Net book value at 31 December 2016 148.9 253.1 402.0 The carrying value of buildings held under finance leases is 0.9m 2015: 0.8m.
The carrying value of plant & equipment held under finance leases is 1.0m 2015: 0.4m.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease liabilities.
The carrying amount of assets under construction included in plant & equipment is 22.7m 2015: 47.3m.
The impairment charges in the year are primarily related to actions undertaken as a result of the restructuring and rationalisation actions as outlined in note 5.
Depreciation charge from discontinued operations for the year amounted to 0.3m 2015: 1.4m.
During the year, the Group disposed of land and buildings under sale and leaseback agreements in North America for 33.2m.
The gain on sale in relation to these disposals amounted to 5.1m.
The Group restructuring and rationalisation charge includes the proceeds from a further property in North America, which was disposed of outright for a consideration of 2.5m, resulting in an exceptional gain on sale of 1.3m.
The disposals were part of the Groups 2016 asset disposal programme.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 149 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 12.
The prior year balance relates to the Oil & Gas North America and Flow Control CGUs note 14.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 150 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Brand names have been assigned an indefinite useful life and as such are not amortised.
The carrying value is tested annually for impairment note 14.
There is no impairment charge in the current year, while the 2015 charge relates to the brand names in the Oil & Gas North America CGU.
The carrying value at the period end was 241.3m 2015: 204.5m.
The brand name value includes the brands of Linatex, BDK, Warman, SPM, Gabbioneta, Multiflo, Novatech, Mathena and Wales, all of which are considered to be market leaders in their respective markets.
The allocation of significant brand names is as follows.
Brand names 2016 2015 m m Warman 67.9 56.3 Linatex 46.6 38.7 Seaboard 31.7 26.3 SPM 38.8 32.2 Trio 19.5 16.2 Gabbioneta 5.8 5.0 Mathena 9.7 8.1 Other 21.3 21.7 241.3 204.5 An impairment charge of 25.1m was recognised in 2015 in relation to customer and distributor relationships in the Oil & Gas North America CGU.
No impairment charge was required in the current year.
The allocation of the remaining customer and distributor relationships, and the amortisation period of these assets, is as follows.
Remaining amortisation Customer and distributor period relationships 2016 2015 2016 2015 Years Years m m SPM 15 16 88.1 78.2 Seaboard 11 12 106.9 98.3 Mathena 9 10 104.0 93.4 Novatech 9 10 43.4 40.4 Trio 8 9 20.9 20.4 Other Up to 14 Up to 15 39.6 39.4 402.9 370.1 The amortisation charge for the period is included in the income statement as follows.
2016 2015 m m Cost of sales 4.2 5.5 Selling & distribution costs 9.8 5.4 Administrative expenses 36.3 41.6 Amortisation charge for the period 50.3 52.5 Amortisation from discontinued operations for the year amounted to 0.1m 2015: 0.7m.
13. Business combinations On 22 July 2016, the Group acquired the outstanding 40% shareholding of Shengli Oilfield Weir Highland Pump Company Limited Shengli for a consideration of up to 4.0m RMB 34.5m.
The Group previously held 60% of the equity of Shengli and fully consolidated the results of the entity.
Initial consideration of 3.4m RMB 29.3m was paid on completion and a further 0.6m RMB 5.2m deferred consideration, due in May 2017, was recognised as a liability.
The fair values for Delta Valves were finalised during the year and the adjustments to the provisional fair values are disclosed in note 2.
The cash flows in relation to these acquisitions are disclosed in note 26.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 151 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 13. Business combinations continued Contingent consideration Any contingent consideration is recognised at the date of acquisition or disposal of a subsidiary.
Contingent consideration at 31 December 2016 relates to assets associated with the current year disposal of the Groups non-core renewable assets and liabilities relating to acquisitions made in prior years.
i Contingent consideration receivable On 30 June 2016 the Group disposed of American Hydro Corporation and the trade and assets of the Montreal business of Weir Canada Inc. resulting in a contingent consideration receivable of 4.6m being recognised at that time reflecting our best estimate at the time of disposal.
This included an amount in escrow of 3.8m which is contingent on final working capital and bonus adjustments due to be finalised in 2017 and 0.8m dependent on certain performance criteria during the second half of 2016.
Based on performance during 2016 and subsequent negotiations with the purchaser the escrow was reduced by 0.2m and the other contingent consideration receivable by a further 0.2m, resulting in a total of 0.4m being written off as an exceptional item in discontinued operations in the period.
ii Contingent consideration payable The acquisition of Delta Valves in 2015 included a potential earn out of US$10m based on EBITDA targets in 2015 and 2016.
Based on forecast information available at the date of acquisition, a liability of US$5m 3.2m was recognised as contingent consideration.
The 2015 target was met and resulted in a subsequent payment of US$5m 3.6m during 2016.
As a result of trading performance the fair value of the remaining contingent consideration payable was reassessed and increased by 1.2m, resulting in a closing liability of 1.3m.
The period over which amounts recorded are expected to fall due is within one year from the balance sheet date, and as a result the provision has not been discounted.
The purchase price of Weir Trio in 2014 included US$14.7m in respect of contingent consideration payable on the recovery of certain working capital balances and the achievement of agreed management goals over the two years following the acquisition.
Expectations at the date of acquisition were that the full amount would be payable and a discounted liability of 8.2m was recognised.
During the period the contract terms were met, which resulted in a US$10m 7.0m settlement in line with expectations.
The discount rate applied in the fair value calculation for Weir Trio was 13.2%.
The contingent consideration payable remaining 3.7m relates to working capital balances and is now expected to be finalised in 2017.
As a result an increase decrease in the discount rate would only have a marginal impact on the fair value of the liability.
The acquisition of Weir International in 2011 included an earn out based on EBITDA achieved in 2013 and 2014, with further EBITDA targets extending to 2019.
In line with expectations, Weir International has met the 2013 and 2014 targets resulting in the settlement of contingent consideration, including a payment of 2.6m made in 2015.
The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration at the date of acquisition was 13.9m.
Based on trading performance the liability was reassessed during 2012 and uplifted by 5.8m.
During 2014 the fair value of the contingent consideration was uplifted by a further 0.6m following agreement with the minority shareholder over additional working capital targets applicable in 2019.
Following further assessment during 2016 the fair value of the contingent consideration payable was reduced by 4.8m and now stands at 25.4m, with final instalments now expected in 2017 and 2018.
The unwind of the discount has been recognised in the income statement in the period.
A significant decrease in the EBITDA of Weir International would result in a lower fair value of the contingent consideration payable, while a significant increase decrease in the discount rate would result in a lower higher fair value of the liability.
The discount rate applied in the fair value calculation for Weir International was 12.8%.
The purchase of the remaining shareholding of Shengli Oilfield Weir Highland Pump Company Ltd Shengli resulted in deferred consideration of 0.6m being recognised in the period.
The balance is contingent on certain indemnities and finalisation costs and is payable in May 2017.
The contingent consideration in relation to other acquisitions is considered to be immaterial for further disclosure.
A reconciliation of fair value measurement of the contingent consideration asset and liability is provided below.
Asset Liability 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Opening balance 35.9 34.6 Liability arising on business combinations 0.6 3.2 Asset arising on business disposal 4.6 Fair value changes in profit or loss note 8 and note 5 0.4 3.7 1.7 Contingent consideration received paid note 8 and note 26 0.6 10.6 2.8 Unwind of discount note 5 3.8 2.4 Exchange movements in the period 0.3 5.0 0.2 Closing balance 3.9 31.0 35.9 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 152 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements 14.
Impairment testing of goodwill & intangible assets with indefinite lives Goodwill acquired through business combinations and intangible assets with indefinite lives have been allocated at acquisition to cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination.
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that these might be impaired.
During the period, following the restructuring of the Power and Industrial division to form Flow Control and various business restructuring in the Oil & Gas division, the Group completed a review of its CGUs to reflect the future operational strategy of the Group.
The review resulted in four primary CGUs: Flow Control, Minerals, Oil & Gas EMEA and Oil & Gas North America.
This replaces the previous structure which comprised Pressure Pumping, Pressure Control, Gabbioneta, Minerals and a further seven individually immaterial CGUs within Other.
Oil & Gas North America represents the effect of further rationalisation activities during Q4 2016, effectively combining Pressure Pumping and Pressure Control under one regionalised management structure which facilitates the use of common sales channels across a consistent customer base.
Oil & Gas EMEA remains fundamentally distinct from the North American operation, being primarily based in the Middle East and focused on the provision of services.
Flow Control combines, under a joint operational management structure,  pump businesses alongside existing Power and Industrial valves businesses.
This created a division with the ability to utilise sales channels across the newly formed division, clearly focused on flow control opportunities in power, oil and gas and other process industries.
This change resulted in the Gabbioneta CGU and four of the other CGUs being combined.
The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives have been allocated as per the table below.
Goodwill 2015 Goodwill Intangibles Restated Intangibles 2016 2016 note 2 2015 m m m m Flow Control 98.7 12.1 93.7 14.2 Minerals 396.0 143.2 334.4 118.9 Oil & Gas EMEA 6.6 6.1 Oil & Gas North America 374.7 86.0 310.9 71.4 876.0 241.3 745.1 204.5 The carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives were previously allocated as per the table below.
Goodwill Intangibles 2015 2015 m m Pressure Pumping 310.9 37.0 Pressure Control 34.4 Gabbioneta 53.1 5.0 Minerals 334.4 118.9 Other 46.7 9.2 745.1 204.5 Intangible assets with indefinite lives brand names.
Description of CGUs A description of each of the CGUs is provided below along with a summary of the key drivers of revenue growth and EBIT margin.
Flow Control Flow control includes the Gabbioneta brand.
Flow control is a supplier of highly engineered pumps, valves and associated aftermarket services to oil and gas refinery, petro-chemical and power generation industries.
The key drivers for revenues are capital expenditure within oil refinery, petro-chemical industries and power generation.
Independent forecasts of expenditure in these sectors have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions.
These independent forecasts were prepared during the final quarter of 2016.
Minerals Minerals includes the Weir Warman, Weir Linatex and Weir Trio brands.
Weir Minerals companies supply pumps and associated equipment and services to all global mining markets.
The key drivers for revenues are: i levels of mining capital expenditure which drives demand for original equipment: and ii levels of actual mining activity which drives demand for spare parts and service.
Independent forecasts of mining capital expenditure and activity have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 153 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 14.
Impairment testing of goodwill & intangible assets with indefinite lives continued Oil & Gas EMEA Oil & Gas EMEA comprises multiple service centre locations within the Middle East and Europe.
These locations supply services including repair, manufacture and certification of oilfield equipment to a diverse portfolio of customers.
The key drivers for revenues are oil and natural gas prices.
Independent forecasts of these commodity prices have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions.
Oil & Gas North America Oil & Gas North America includes the Weir SPM, Weir Seaboard and Weir Mathena brands.
This CGU is a supplier of oil and gas well service pumps, wellhead solutions, associated flow control equipment and services to the oil and gas production industry.
Demand in Oil & Gas North America is closely related to the number of conventional and unconventional oil drilling rigs and gas well drilling rigs in operation which is in turn dependent upon oil and natural gas prices and storage levels.
Independent forecasts of North American oil and gas well drilling activity, which take into account forecast oil and natural gas prices and storage levels, have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions, during the final quarter of 2016.
Impairment testing assumptions The basis of the impairment tests for the four primary CGUs including key assumptions are set out in the table below.
Period of 1 2 CGU Basis of valuation forecast Discount rate Real growth Key assumptions Source Flow Control Value in use 5 years 13.5% 1.2% 2015: 1.2% Revenue growth External forecast EBIT margins Historic experience Minerals Value in use 5 years 16.3% 2015: 15.4% 1.2% 2015: 1.2% Revenue growth External forecast EBIT margins Historic experience Oil & Gas EMEA Value in use 5 years 13.7% 1.2% 2015: 1.2% Revenue growth External forecast EBIT margins Historic experience Oil & Gas Value in use 5 years 15.3% 2015: 13.2% 1.2% 2015: 1.2% Revenue growth External forecast North America EBIT margins Historic experience 1 Discount rate The pre-tax nominal weighted average cost of capital WACC is the basis for the discount rate, with adjustments made, as appropriate, for geographic risk.
The WACC is the weighted average of the pre-tax cost of debt financing and the pre-tax cost of equity finance.
During the year there have been changes in the bond yields, equity market risk premium and industry asset beta which has led to an increase in the overall discount rate for the majority of countries.
2 Real growth Real growth beyond the five year forecast period has been held consistent with the prior year at 1.2% 2015: 1.2%, reflecting the increasingly global nature of these businesses and the fact that they sell a significant proportion of their products to emerging markets which have long-term stronger growth prospects than their home markets.
EBIT margins EBIT margins have been forecast based on historic levels taking cognisance of the likely impact of changing economic environments and competitive landscapes on volumes and revenues, and the impact of associated management actions.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 154 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Impairment testing and sensitivity analysis For Flow Control, Minerals and Oil & Gas EMEA base case forecasts show significant headroom above carrying value.
No sensitivity analysis has been undertaken for these CGUs as there is no reasonable possible change in key assumptions that would cause the carrying values to exceed recoverable amounts.
Following the prolonged downturn in the oil & gas market, the end of 2016 marked the beginning of a more positive outlook on volumes and cash flows.
Despite this, available headroom in Oil & Gas North America CGU is 109.0m 11%.
This is a marginal improvement from prior year reflecting greater visibility and certainty of market recovery as well as further restructuring.
It was determined that no impairment charge is required to be recognised at the year end in relation to Oil & Gas North America 2015: 225.5m.
Given the modest headroom available in the Oil & Gas North America CGU, sensitivity analysis was performed with revised metrics.
The following table shows the impact on the available headroom of the changes to assumptions used in the Oil & Gas North America impairment model.
Increase Decrease Increase Decrease by 50bps by 50 bps by 5% by 5% m m m m Discount rate 95 89 n a n a Real growth rate 71 80 n a n a Forecast revenue growth n a n a 168 168 EBIT margin 65 65 n a n a Forecast revenue growth is expressed as the percentage increase decrease in each of the initial five years used in the impairment testing relative to the impairment testing assumptions.
Continued market depression over subsequent years could give rise to an impairment due to the current level of headroom.
This scenario is reflected in the decrease in forecast revenue growth sensitivity or a combination of adverse movements in the other sensitivity assumptions albeit no mitigating cost actions have been included in the sensitivity analysis.
Sensitivity applied to discount rates, growth rates and EBIT margins individually would not lead to an impairment.
However, as explained in other sections of this annual report but specifically in the Financial Review on page 24 and in note 5, the Group has already reacted to market conditions through the implementation of the Oil & Gas downturn actions and management continue to review the operational structure and business model to ensure we remain well placed to fully respond to a market upturn.
A return to profitability for Oil & Gas North America is envisaged in 2017, with continued growth in subsequent years driving increased operating cash flows offset by investment in working capital in line with volumes.
The growth is expected to lead to a measured return to more normal operating levels.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 155 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 15.
Investments in joint ventures The investments in joint ventures are as follows.
m At 2 January 2015 33.7 Disposals Share of results 8.3 Share of dividends 10.0 Exchange adjustment 1.4 At 1 January 2016 33.4 Share of results 7.2 Share of dividends 7.3 Exchange adjustment 7.2 At 31 December 2016 40.5 Details of the Groups share of the balance sheet, revenue and profit of each of its joint ventures are given below.
2016 2015 m m Share of joint ventures balance sheets Goodwill 15.9 13.2 Current assets 33.2 26.1 Non-current assets 4.7 4.6 Current liabilities 11.4 9.0 Non-current liabilities 1.9 1.5 Net assets 40.5 33.4 Share of joint ventures revenue & profits Revenue 47.3 47.7 Cost of sales 31.9 31.5 Selling & distribution costs 5.6 4.3 Administrative expenses 1.0 2.0 Income tax expense 1.6 1.6 Profit after tax 7.2 8.3 The Groups investments in joint ventures are listed on page 197.
Inventories 2016 2015 m m Raw materials 125.8 162.9 Work in progress 137.5 112.5 Finished goods 288.3 203.3 551.6 478.7 In 2016, the cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales amounted to 1,241.7m 2015: 1,248.3m.
In 2016, the writedown of inventories to net realisable value amounted to 20.1m 2015: 40.0m, which included 3.6m in relation to China and 4.3m in relation to other Group restructuring actions, as disclosed in note 5.
Write-downs in both years relate to assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale values across all of the Groups businesses.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 156 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements 17.
Trade & other receivables Other receivables presented as non-current on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheet of 39.2m 2015: 22.3m are in respect of insurance contracts relating to asbestos-related claims in the USA.
Further detail is presented in note 22.
Current trade & other receivables are analysed in the following table.
2016 2015 m m Trade receivables 387.8 371.9 Allowance for doubtful debts 17.7 18.3 370.1 353.6 Other debtors 48.3 39.9 Sales tax receivable 14.2 12.8 Accrued income 24.2 18.6 Prepayments 21.1 19.8 Contingent consideration receivable 3.9 481.8 444.7 The average credit period on sales of goods is 73 days 2015: 67 days.
Other debtors includes 9.3m 2015: 2.4m in respect of amounts due from joint ventures, and 8.3m 2015: 5.9m in respect of insurance contracts relating to asbestos-related claims made in the USA note 22.
Analysis of trade receivables 2016 2015 m m Neither impaired nor past due 262.7 254.2 Past due but not impaired 107.4 99.4 Impaired 17.7 18.3 387.8 371.9 Ageing of past due but not impaired trade receivables 2016 2015 m m Up to 3 months 76.1 67.2 Between 3 & 6 months 9.0 15.1 More than 6 months 22.3 17.1 107.4 99.4 Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts 2016 2015 m m Balance at the beginning of the period 18.3 17.9 Impairment losses recognised on receivables 3.1 6.1 Arising on disposal of business 0.1 Amounts written off as uncollectable 4.1 4.7 Amounts recovered during the period 0.9 0.3 Impairment losses reversed 1.0 0.1 Exchange adjustment 2.4 0.6 Balance at the end of the period 17.7 18.3 Impairment losses recognised in 2016 include 3.1m 2015: 1.1m as part of Group restructuring actions as disclosed in note 5.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 157 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 17.
Trade & other receivables continued Ageing of impaired trade receivables 2016 2015 m m Up to 3 months 0.8 0.5 Between 3 & 6 months 2.2 1.3 More than 6 months 14.7 16.5 17.7 18.3 18.
Construction contracts 2016 2015 m m Gross amount due from customers for contract work included in current assets 23.8 28.5 Gross amount due to customers for contract work included in current liabilities 4.2 8.9 19.6 19.6 Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 76.5 78.1 Less: progress billings 56.9 58.5 19.6 19.6 The amount of retentions held by customers for contract work was nil in both periods.
The amount of advances received from customers for contract work was 1.3m 2015: 2.8m.
Cash & short-term deposits 2016 2015 m m Cash at bank & in hand 148.2 174.2 Government securities & short-term deposits 110.4 9.8 258.6 184.0 For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash & cash equivalents comprise the following.
Cash & short-term deposits 258.6 184.0 Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings note 20 1.6 4.7 257.0 179.3 Cash at bank & in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective shortterm deposit rates.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 158 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements 20.
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings 2016 2015 m m Current Bank overdrafts 1.2 4.1 Short-term borrowings 0.4 0.6 1.6 4.7 Bank loans 24.4 Commercial paper 142.1 166.4 Obligations under finance leases note 27 0.3 0.1 144.0 195.6 Non-current Bank loans 31.1 45.5 Fixed rate notes 917.5 767.7 Obligations under finance leases note 27 0.5 0.2 949.1 813.4 Weighted average interest rate 2016 2015 2016 2015 Bank loans Maturity Interest basis % % m m Revolving credit facility United States Dollar variable rate loans 2021 US$ LIBOR 1.09 0.77 31.0 45.4 Sterling variable rate loans 2021 LIBOR Other Uncommitted facility loan 2016 LIBOR 0.89 23.0 Argentinian Peso fixed rate loan facilities 2019 FIXED 18.18 18.18 0.1 0.1 South African Rand loan facility 2016 ZAR JIBAR 7.89 1.4 31.1 69.9 Less: current instalments due on bank loans Uncommitted facility loan 2016 LIBOR 23.0 South African Rand loan facility 2016 ZAR JIBAR 1.4 Non-current bank loans 31.1 45.5 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 159 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 20.
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings continued Weighted average interest rate 2016 2015 2016 2015 Commercial paper Maturity Interest basis % % m m Commercial paper Sterling variable rate commercial paper 2016 LIBOR 0.75 5.0 United States Dollar variable rate commercial paper 2016 US$ LIBOR 0.54 43.4 Euro variable rate commercial paper 2017 EUR LIBOR 0.17 0.15 142.1 118.0 142.1 166.4 Less: current instalments due on commercial paper Sterling variable rate commercial paper 2016 LIBOR 5.0 United States Dollar variable rate commercial paper 2016 US$ LIBOR 43.4 Euro variable rate commercial paper 2017 EUR LIBOR 142.1 118.0 Non-current commercial paper The weighted average interest rates include an applicable margin over and above the interest basis.
Fixed interest rate 2016 2015 2016 2015 Fixed rate notes Maturity Interest basis % % m m Private placement Sterling fixed rate notes 2018 FIXED 5.36 5.36 43.0 43.0 United States Dollar fixed rate notes 2018 FIXED 5.03 5.03 57.2 47.5 United States Dollar fixed rate notes 2019 FIXED 3.69 3.69 171.7 142.2 United States Dollar fixed rate notes 2022 FIXED 4.27 4.27 482.1 399.6 United States Dollar fixed rate notes 2023 FIXED 4.34 4.34 163.5 135.4 Non-current fixed rate notes 917.5 767.7 The disclosures above represent the interest profile and currency profile of financial liabilities before the impact of derivative financial instruments.
At 31 December 2016, a total of 142.1m equivalent 2015: 166.4m equivalent was outstanding under the Groups US$1bn commercial paper programme.
At 31 December 2016, US$40.0m 2015: US$70.0m was drawn under the revolving credit facility.
The US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility matures in two tranches between September 2020 and September 2021.
Total unamortised issue costs at 31 December 2016 were 2.5m 2015: 3.6m.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 160 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements 21.
Trade & other payables Restated note 2 2016 2015 m m Current Trade payables 268.2 223.6 Other creditors 9.4 16.3 Other taxes & social security costs 16.5 14.6 Accruals 165.0 127.4 Contingent consideration payable 17.3 13.3 Deferred income 71.7 64.6 548.1 459.8 Non-current Other payables 1.2 Contingent consideration payable 13.7 22.6 14.9 22.6 22.
Provisions Warranties & onerous sales Employee Exceptional contracts related rationalisation Other Total m m m m m At 1 January 2016 27.6 50.6 36.3 2.5 117.0 Additions 9.5 18.4 63.0 1.1 92.0 Disposal of business 0.4 0.4 Utilised 13.9 7.7 58.1 0.5 80.2 Unwind 0.7 0.7 Unutilised 3.2 2.8 0.5 0.3 6.8 Exchange adjustment 3.9 10.2 6.4 0.6 21.1 At 31 December 2016 23.5 69.4 47.1 3.4 143.4 Current 2016 18.2 19.8 42.5 2.7 83.2 Non-current 2016 5.3 49.6 4.6 0.7 60.2 At 31 December 2016 23.5 69.4 47.1 3.4 143.4 Current 2015 21.9 10.9 35.8 1.7 70.3 Non-current 2015 5.7 39.7 0.5 0.8 46.7 At 1 January 2016 27.6 50.6 36.3 2.5 117.0 Warranties and onerous sales contracts Provision has been made in respect of actual warranty and contract penalty claims on goods sold and services provided and allowance has been made for potential warranty claims based on past experience for goods and services sold with a warranty guarantee.
It is expected that all costs related to such claims will have been incurred within five years of the balance sheet date.
Provision has been made in respect of sales contracts entered into for the sale of goods in the normal course of business where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contracts exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contracts.
Provision is made immediately when it becomes apparent that expected costs will exceed the expected benefits of the contract.
It is expected that the majority of these costs will be incurred within one year of the balance sheet date.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 161 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 22.
Provisions continued Employee related Employee related provisions arise from legal obligations, some of which relate to compensation associated with periods of service, while the majority are for asbestos-related claims.
Asbestos-related claims Certain of the Groups US-based subsidiaries are co-defendants in lawsuits pending in the United States in which plaintiffs are claiming damages arising from alleged exposure to products previously manufactured which contained asbestos.
The Group has comprehensive insurance cover for cases of this nature with all claims directly managed by the Groups insurers who also meet associated defence costs.
The insurers and their legal advisers agree and execute the defence strategy between them and there are currently no related cash flows to or from the Group.
We expect this to continue for the foreseeable future.
A review was completed in 2014, in conjunction with external advisors, to assess the adequacy of the Groups insurance policies to meet future settlement and defence costs.
As a result of this review a provision of 28m was recorded in 2014 with an equivalent receivable for insurance proceeds based on an estimate of settlement and defence costs for existing and projected claims received in the subsequent five year period.
The cash flows associated with this claim profile were assessed as extending to a period of ten years from the balance sheet date.
During the prior period costs were charged against the provision and additional charges were made to the provision to reflect new claims.
During the current period, the estimates underlying the provision have continued to be reassessed and refined as the Groups claims experience has developed.
Since the initial review in 2014 the period of claims has been analysed to improve understanding of key drivers, including the originating State of claims, average settlement and defence costs per State and the occurrence of one-off claims and or settlements.
While the overall level of claims experience remains relatively immature, the additional claims history provides the Group with growing confidence around our ability to estimate the level of future claims.
As a result the provision has been updated to reflect ten years of projected future claims.
This has increased cash flows in the model to sixteen years from the balance sheet date.
On this basis the provision has been increased by 19.4m including 7.2m adverse FX to 47.5m at December 2016.
The corresponding insurance asset has been increased by an equivalent amount.
The increase to ten years of projected claims reflects our growing confidence in the claims data available but also the inherent uncertainty associated with estimating future costs in respect of asbestos-related diseases.
Actuarial estimates of future indemnity and defence costs associated with asbestos-related diseases are subject to significantly greater uncertainty than actuarial estimates for other types of exposures.
This uncertainty results from factors that are unique to the asbestos claims litigation and settlement process including but not limited to: i The possibility of future state or federal legislation applying to claims for asbestos-related diseases: ii The ability of plaintiffs bar to develop and sustain new legal theory and or develop new populations of claimants: iii Changes in focus of plaintiffs bar: iv Changes in the Groups defence strategy: and v Changes in the financial condition of other co-defendants in suits naming the Group and affiliated businesses.
There can be no guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred.
Sensitivity analysis has been conducted which involved increasing the number of projected future settled claims and estimated settlement value.
An increase or decrease of 10% on the settlement value and number of settled claims would not lead to a material change in the provision.
A provision of 47.5m represents the Directors best estimate of the future liability, although these estimates and the period over which they are assessed will continue to be refined as the claims history develops.
A corresponding asset continues to be recognised for insurance proceeds.
In the UK, there are outstanding asbestos-related claims which are not the subject of insurance cover.
The extent of the UK asbestos exposure involves a series of legacy employers liability claims which all relate to former UK operations and employment periods in the 1960s and 1970s.
In 1989 the Groups employers liability insurer Chester Street Employers Association Ltd was placed into run-off which effectively generated an uninsured liability exposure for all future long tail disease claims with an exposure period pre-dating 1 January 1972.
All claims with a disease exposure post 1 January 1972 are fully compensated via the Government established Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS.
Any settlement to a former employee whose service period straddles 1972 is calculated on a pro rata basis.
The Group provides for these claims based on managements best estimate of the likely costs given past experience of the volume and cost of similar claims brought against the Group.
An exercise was completed in 2016 which found based on additional claims experience the actual claims cost is lower than the provision previously held.
The provision has been adjusted accordingly.
Exceptional rationalisation In light of the prolonged downturn across the Groups major end markets, the Group has provided an additional 63.0m 2015: 47.6m during the period.
The provision incorporates committed costs for cash restructuring costs.
Identification of a number of pre and post-acquisition liabilities, predominantly in Trio China, has resulted in additional provision in 2016.
The majority of the provision will be utilised in 2017.
Other Other provisions relate to dilapidations and various other legal claims and exposures across the Group.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 162 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements 23.
Deferred tax 2016 2015 m m Deferred income tax assets Post-employment benefits 26.4 18.6 Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 2.9 11.0 Intangible assets 5.1 10.9 Untaxed reserves 131.8 94.7 Offset against liabilities 124.1 115.0 Deferred income tax assets 42.1 20.2 Deferred income tax liabilities Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 20.9 26.0 Overseas tax on unremitted earnings 23.1 20.5 Intangible assets 190.9 170.7 Other temporary differences 10.3 13.1 Offset against assets 124.1 115.0 Deferred income tax liabilities 100.5 115.3 Net deferred income tax liabilities 58.4 95.1 The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the period was as follows.
Untaxed Accelerated Overseas reserves Post depreciation tax on & other employment for tax unremitted Intangible temporary benefits purposes earnings assets differences Total m m m m m m At 2 January 2015 21.4 37.8 24.1 160.0 62.5 138.0 Prior year adjustments 19.8 20.2 0.4 Charged credited to the income statement note 7 1.9 3.0 2.6 26.4 19.5 49.6 Credited to equity 2.3 0.3 2.6 Exchange adjustment 0.1 1.0 6.0 0.8 4.1 At 1 January 2016 17.3 15.0 20.5 159.8 82.9 95.1 Prior year adjustments 1.7 3.0 2.1 0.8 Charged credited to the income statement note 7 2.0 3.0 1.6 5.4 36.4 44.4 Charged to equity 8.4 0.2 8.6 Exchange adjustment 1.0 3.0 4.2 31.4 20.5 17.1 At 31 December 2016 26.4 18.0 23.1 185.8 142.1 58.4 Untaxed reserves primarily relate to temporarily disallowed inventory receivable provisions and accruals provisions for liabilities where the tax allowance is deferred until the cash expense occurs.
In relation to the increase of the untaxed reserves, 34.2m relates to carried forward interest deductions in the USA.
USA tax rules allow surplus interest expenses to be carried forward indefinitely to be used against future earnings.
Forecasts have been prepared which indicate that this interest will be able to be offset in 2018 and 2019 therefore it is considered appropriate to recognise a deferred tax asset in respect of this amount.
Deferred tax asset balances for unused tax losses of 11.5m 2015: 7.3m have not been recognised on the grounds that there is insufficient evidence that these assets will be recoverable.
These assets will be recovered when future tax charges are sufficient to absorb these tax benefits.
Deferred tax asset balances for capital losses in the UK amounting to 4.2m 2015: 4.4m have not been recognised but would be available in the event of future capital gains being incurred by the Group.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 163 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 23.
Deferred tax continued Temporary differences associated with Group investments A deferred tax liability of 23.1m 2015: 20.5m has been recognised in respect of taxes on the unremitted earnings of the South American and Canadian subsidiaries and the unremitted earnings of the UK and Canadian subsidiaries of the US subgroup.
As at 31 December 2016, this is the only recognised deferred tax liability in respect of taxes on unremitted earnings as the Group does not foresee a distribution of unremitted earnings from other subsidiaries or joint ventures which would result in a reversal of deferred tax.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, aggregate to 1,986.6m 2015: 1,515.8m.
There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
UK Corporation tax rate changes Legislation was enacted on 26 October 2015 such that the main rate of UK corporation tax will be 19% from April 2017 and 17% from April 2020.
Consequently UK deferred tax has been provided at the prevalent rates during the periods in which the UK temporary differences are expected to unwind.
Consequently, deferred tax has been provided on UK temporary differences at 17.8% 2015: 19.9%.
Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans The Group has four main defined benefit pension plans in the UK and North America.
All defined benefit plans are closed to new members.
The most significant of the defined benefit plans are the two funded UK plans.
UK plans The Group has two funded defined benefit plans the Main Plan and the Executive Plan and an unfunded retirement benefit plan for retired executive directors.
The Group also operates a defined contribution plan, the contributions to which are in addition to those set out below, and are charged directly to the income statement.
For the defined benefit plans, benefits are related to service and final salary.
The Main Plan closed to future accrual of benefits effective from 30 June 2015.
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Main Plan is around 17 years and from the Executive Plan it is around 14 years.
The current funding target for the UK plans is to maintain assets equal to the value of the accrued benefits.
The Main Plan holds two insurance policies which match the liabilities in respect of a significant proportion of deferred and retired pensioners.
The regulatory framework in the UK requires the pension scheme Trustees and Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding target, and then to agree upon the necessary contributions required to recover any deficit at the valuation date.
There is a risk to the Group that adverse experience against these assumptions could lead to a requirement for the Group to make considerable contributions to recover any deficit.
This risk is significantly reduced for the Main Plan through the insurance policies held.
North American plans The Group also sponsors two funded defined benefit pension plans in the USA and Canada and certain unfunded post-employment healthcare benefits for senior employees in the USA.
These plans combined make up 3% of the Groups pension and other post-employment benefit plan commitments and 2% of the Groups total associated assets.
The weighted average duration of these plans is around 11 years.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 164 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Assumptions The significant actuarial assumptions used for accounting purposes reflect prevailing market conditions in the UK and North America and are as follows.
North American North American post-retirement UK pensions pensions healthcare 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Significant actuarial assumptions: Discount rate % pa 2.6 3.7 3.9 4.2 3.9 4.2 Retail Prices Inflation assumption % pa 3.3 3.0 n a n a n a n a Post-retirement mortality life expectancies in years : Current pensioners at 65 male 22.2 22.4 20.8 21.2 20.8 21.2 Current pensioners at 65 female 24.3 24.5 22.8 23.2 22.8 23.2 Future pensioners at 65 male 24.0 24.1 22.4 22.9 22.4 22.9 Future pensioners at 65 female 26.2 26.4 24.9 24.9 24.9 24.9 Other related actuarial assumptions: Rate of increases for pensions in payment % pa Pre 6 April 2006 service 3.1 2.9 n a n a n a n a Post 5 April 2006 service 2.1 2.0 n a n a n a n a Consumer Prices Inflation assumption % pa 2.2 2.0 n a n a n a n a Rate of increase in healthcare costs n a n a n a n a 7.2% per annum decreasing to 4.5% per annum and remaining static at that level from 2028 onwards.
6.7% per annum decreasing to 4.5% per annum and remaining static at that level from 2028 onwards.
The assumptions used to determine end-of-year benefit obligations are also used to calculate the following periods cost.
For North America, weighted average assumptions are shown where applicable.
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity.
The current disclosures above relate to assumptions based on longevity in years following retirement at the balance sheet date, with future being that relating to a member retiring in 2037 in 20 years time.
The assets and liabilities of the plans are as follows.
Total 2016 2015 m m Plan assets at fair value Equities quoted 216.7 174.5 Diversified Growth Funds primarily quoted 51.5 46.4 Corporate bonds quoted 85.6 77.0 Government bonds quoted 97.2 81.2 Insurance policies unquoted 379.2 345.1 Cash quoted 2.0 3.2 Fair value of plan assets 832.2 727.4 Present value of funded obligations 960.9 801.4 Net funded obligations 128.7 74.0 Present value of unfunded obligations 8.5 7.8 Net liability 137.2 81.8 Plans in surplus 9.8 8.2 Plans in deficit 147.0 90.0 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 165 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 24.
Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans continued Assumptions continued The Government bonds held are primarily index-linked, with only around 7% of the total Government bonds being fixed interest.
The pension plans have not directly invested in any of the Groups own financial instruments, or in properties or other assets used by the Group.
In the UK, where the majority of the Groups pension assets are held, the investment strategy is to hold equities and other return seeking assets such as diversified growth funds and a mixture of bonds to meet the assessed value of the benefits promised for the non-insured deferred pensioners.
For the remaining deferred pensioners and the bulk of pensioners currently receiving their benefit, the liabilities are backed by insurance policies and suitable bonds.
The change in net liabilities recognised in the balance sheet is comprised as follows.
2016 2015 m m Opening net liabilities 81.8 94.3 Expense charged to profit and loss 3.5 5.0 Amount recognised in statement of comprehensive income 53.0 13.5 Employer contributions 3.9 4.3 Currency adjustment 2.8 0.3 Closing net liabilities 137.2 81.8 The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement and in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period are analysed as follows.
2016 2015 m m Recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement Current service cost 1.1 Administrative expenses 0.5 0.6 Included in operating profit 0.5 1.7 Interest on net pension liability 3.0 3.3 Total expense charged to profit & loss 3.5 5.0 Recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Actual return on plan assets 134.7 21.5 Less: interest on plan assets 26.5 25.4 108.2 3.9 Other actuarial losses gains due to Changes in financial assumptions 172.3 24.9 Changes in demographic assumptions 11.1 2.7 Experience on benefit obligations 10.2 Actuarial losses gains recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 53.0 13.5 Current service cost and administration expenses are recognised in operating costs and interest on net pension liability is recognised in other finance costs.
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of regular valuations using the projected unit method.
The Group made special contributions of 2.8m in 2016 2015: 2.6m in addition to the Groups regular contributions.
The most recent actuarial funding valuation of the Main Plan was as at 31 December 2014 when the funding shortfall was 65.0m.
Under the recovery plan agreed with the Trustees, the Group entered into a pension funding partnership structure under which it will contribute interests in a Scottish Limited Partnership SLP for the Main Plan.
The Main Plans interests in the SLP will reduce the deficit on a funding basis, although the agreement will not affect the position directly on an IAS 19 accounting basis as the investments held do not qualify as assets for IAS 19 purposes.
As a partner in the SLP, the Main Plan is entitled to receive a share of the profits of the SLP once a year for 15 years, subject to conditions being met.
The profits to be shared with the Plan will be reflected in the Groups financial statements as a pension contribution.
The Executive Plan actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2013 included a funding shortfall of 10.6m with agreed recovery contributions of 2.4m per annum to 31 December 2017, subject to reassessment at future triennial valuations.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 166 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements The Group has taken legal advice regarding its UK arrangements to confirm the accounting treatment under IFRIC 14 and the current exposure draft of the revised IFRIC 14 with regard to recognition of a current surplus and also recognition of a minimum funding requirement.
This confirmed that there is no requirement to adjust the balance sheet and that recognition of a current surplus is appropriate on the basis that the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of a current or projected future surplus at some point in the future.
For the same reason, there is no requirement for the Group to adjust the balance sheet to recognise the future agreed deficit recovery contributions.
Having considered the position, taking account of the legal input received and noting that the Trustees of the UK arrangements do not have discretionary powers to unilaterally wind up the schemes without cause, the Directors of the Group have concluded that the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of any surplus.
Amendments to the current version of IFRIC 14 are currently being considered.
The total Group contributions for 2017 including those expected from the SLP in the UK are expected to be 6.8m.
Sensitivity analysis Changes in key assumptions can have a significant effect on the reported retirement benefit obligation and the income statement expense for 2017.
The effects of changes in those assumptions are set out in the table below.
Increase Decrease Increase Decrease 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m Discount rate Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1.0% change 146.1 177.4 110.9 132.7 Effect on net liability of a 1.0% change 109.4 136.5 80.9 99.5 RPI inflation and associated assumptions Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1.0% change 90.3 82.8 69.7 64.3 Effect on net liability of a 1.0% change 64.2 58.1 47.6 43.4 Life expectancy Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1 year change 29.5 29.5 24.7 24.7 Effect on net liability of a 1 year change 15.5 15.5 12.0 12.0 The impact on the net liability is significantly reduced as a result of the insurance policies held.
In the absence of such policies, the impact on the net liability would be much closer to the significantly higher impact on the defined benefit obligation shown in the table.
These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation and net liability in isolation and assume no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date.
In practice, for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without any movement in the value of the invested non-insurance policy assets held by the plans.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows.
2016 2015 m m Opening defined benefit obligations 809.2 836.2 Current service cost 1.1 Interest on benefit obligations 29.5 28.7 Benefits paid 35.7 40.1 Actuarial gains losses due to Changes in financial assumptions 172.3 24.9 Changes in demographic assumptions 11.1 2.7 Experience on benefit obligations 10.2 Exchange rate adjustment 5.2 0.7 Closing defined benefit obligations 969.4 809.2 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 167 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 24.
Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans continued Sensitivity analysis continued Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows.
2016 2015 m m Opening plan assets 727.4 741.9 Interest on plan assets 26.5 25.4 Employer contributions 3.9 4.3 Administrative expenses 0.5 0.6 Benefits paid 35.7 40.1 Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets 108.2 3.9 Exchange rate adjustment 2.4 0.4 Closing plan assets 832.2 727.4 25.
Share capital & reserves 2016 2015 Number Number Million Million Issued & fully paid share capital At the beginning of the period 214.7 214.1 Issued during the period in respect of scrip dividends 3.7 Issued during the period in respect of Delta Valves acquisition 0.6 At the end of the period 218.4 214.7 Treasury shares Issued at the beginning and end of the period 0.7 0.7 The Company has one class of ordinary share with a par value of 12.5p which carries no rights to fixed income.
As at 31 December 2016, 5,590 shares 2015: 27,851 were held by the Kleinwort EBT with a market value of 0.1m 2015: 0.3m.
As at 31 December 2016, 44,917 shares 2015: 93,666 were held by the Estera EBT for the performance and restricted awards made under the LTIP.
These shares have a market value of 0.8m 2015: 1.3m.
As at 31 December 2016, 28,871 shares 2015: 18,676 were held by the Estera EBT for the bonus shares awarded under the LTIP.
These shares have a market value of 0.5m 2015: 0.2m.
Merger reserve The merger reserve was created by the issue of new equity in relation to the acquisition of Delta Industrial Valves Inc. during the prior period.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve was created by a repurchase and cancellation of own shares during the 53 weeks ended 1 January 1999.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and the Groups hedge of its net investment in foreign operations.
Hedge accounting reserve This reserve records the portion of the gains or losses on hedging instruments used as cash flow hedges that are determined to be effective.
Net gains losses transferred from equity during the period are included in the following line items in the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet.
2016 2015 m m Revenue 0.1 0.6 Cost of sales 1.7 2.6 Administrative expenses 0.3 0.3 Inventory 0.1 1.9 1.6 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 168 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements 26.
Additional cash flow information 2016 2015 Notes m m Total operations Net cash generated from operations Operating profit loss continuing operations 90.3 133.1 Operating loss discontinued operations 3.8 25.2 Operating profit loss total operations 86.5 158.3 Exceptional items 5,8 77.5 364.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 12 50.3 52.5 Share of results of joint ventures 15 7.2 8.3 Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 11 56.2 63.4 Impairment of property, plant & equipment 0.3 Gains on disposal of property, plant & equipment 1.1 1.6 Funding of pension & post-retirement costs 0.6 Employee share schemes 4.1 2.3 Transactional foreign exchange 6.6 4.5 Decrease in provisions 11.3 5.7 Cash generated from operations before working capital cash flows 261.0 309.2 Decrease in inventories 7.1 25.2 Decrease in trade & other receivables and construction contracts 57.5 189.3 Decrease in trade & other payables and construction contracts 33.0 127.2 Cash generated from operations 292.6 396.5 Additional pension contributions paid 24 2.8 2.6 Exceptional cash items 5 58.1 33.4 Income tax paid 15.7 50.4 Net cash generated from operating activities 216.0 310.1 Exceptional items are detailed in note 5.
The employee-related provision and associated insurance asset in relation to US asbestos-related claims disclosed in note 22 will not result in any cash flows either to or from the Group and therefore they have been excluded from the table above.
The cash flows from discontinued operations included above are disclosed separately in note 8.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 169 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 26.
Additional cash flow information continued The following tables summarise the cash flows arising on acquisitions and disposals.
2016 2015 m m Acquisitions of subsidiaries Current period acquisitions see below 12.9 Prior period acquisitions contingent consideration paid 10.6 2.8 Prior period acquisitions completion adjustment 1.6 10.6 14.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries cash paid 14.4 Cash & cash equivalents acquired 1.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries current period acquisitions 12.9 Settlement of external debt of subsidiary on acquisition 1.2 Total cash outflow on current period acquisitions 14.1 Prior period acquisitions contingent consideration paid 10.6 2.8 Prior period acquisitions completion adjustment 1.6 Total cash outflow relating to acquisitions 10.6 15.3 Net cash inflow arising on disposal Consideration received in cash & cash equivalents 35.4 Less: cash & cash equivalents disposed of 4.0 Total cash inflow relating to disposals 31.4 2016 2015 m m Reconciliation of net increase in cash & cash equivalents to movement in net debt Net increase in cash & cash equivalents from total operations 32.2 34.2 Net decrease in debt 92.4 49.4 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 124.6 83.6 Lease inceptions 1.2 0.1 Loans leases disposed 0.1 Foreign currency translation differences 133.0 47.8 Change in net debt during the period 9.5 35.7 Net debt at the beginning of the period 825.0 860.7 Net debt at the end of the period 834.5 825.0 Net debt comprises the following Cash & short-term deposits note 19 258.6 184.0 Current interest-bearing loans & borrowings note 20 144.0 195.6 Non-current interest-bearing loans & borrowings note 20 949.1 813.4 834.5 825.0 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 170 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements 27.
Commitments & legal claims Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into commercial leases for land & buildings, motor vehicles and plant & equipment.
Land & building leases have an average term of between two and ten years, motor vehicle leases have an average term of between two and four years and plant & equipment leases have an average term of between three and five years.
Certain leases have terms of renewal at the option of the lessee.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are shown in the table below.
2016 2015 m m Less than 1 year 32.8 29.6 After 1 year but no more than 5 years 82.3 71.3 More than 5 years 65.5 43.6 180.6 144.5 Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for buildings and plant & equipment.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are shown in the table below.
Present Present Minimum value of Minimum value of payments payments payments payments 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m Less than 1 year 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.1 After 1 year but not more than 5 years 0.4 0.5 0.2 0.2 Total minimum lease payments 0.8 0.3 Present value of minimum lease payments 0.8 0.8 0.3 0.3 The weighted average outstanding lease term is 2.42 years 2015: 2.69 years.
For the period ended 31 December 2016, the weighted average effective borrowing rate was 7.28% 2015: 4.89%.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
Capital commitments 2016 2015 m m Outstanding capital commitments contracted but not provided for property, plant & equipment 13.3 20.1 Outstanding capital commitments contracted but not provided for intangible assets 1.6 8.9 The Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures amounted to nil 2015: 0.1m.
Legal claims The Company and certain subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 171 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 28.
Equity settled share-based payments Employee option plans There are four types of awards which were made under the Groups LTIP 2004 rules to senior executives: performance shares, matching shares, compulsory investment and voluntary investment shares.
Under the subsequent LTIP 2014 rules the types of awards which may be made under this Plan to senior executives include: bonus shares, performance shares and restricted shares.
Details of each award are outlined in the Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 109.
One off conditional share awards are occasionally issued to employees.
These transactions fall under the scope of IFRS 2 and are treated in line with awards issued under the Groups LTIP.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average share prices WASP of shares awarded.
2016 2015 Number 2016 Number 2015 Million WASP Million WASP Outstanding at the beginning of the period 1.7 21.84 1.5 23.43 Awarded during the period 1.3 11.58 0.9 17.85 Forfeited during the period 0.5 22.91 0.7 19.82 Outstanding at the end of the period 2.5 16.24 1.7 21.84 An amount of 4.0m has been charged 2015: 0.5m credited to the consolidated income statement in respect of the number of awards which are expected to be made at the end of the vesting period.
The remaining contractual lives of the outstanding LTIP and one off conditional awards at the end of the period are as follows.
2016 2016 2015 2015 Number Remaining Number Remaining Year of award Million contractual life Million contractual life 2013 0.4 3 months 2014 0.5 3 months 0.5 15 months 2015 0.7 15 months 0.8 27 months 2016 1.3 27 months The fair value of occasional one off conditional awards at grant date is estimated by taking the market price of the Companys shares on that date less an adjustment for loss of the reinvestment return on the dividend equivalent during the vesting period.
The fair value at date of grant of the conditional awards under the LTIP has been estimated using the Monte Carlo simulation model.
The following table gives the assumptions made during the periods ended 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2016 in the calculation of the fair value of awards made in those years.
2016 2015 Weighted average expected volatility % 37.00 28.93 Weighted average expected life years 3.00 2.96 Weighted average risk free rate % 0.70 0.83 Weighted average share price 12.13 17.85 Weighted average fair value 9.14 14.73 The expected life of the awards is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Market related performance conditions have been taken into account in the calculation of fair values.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 172 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Deferred Bonus Plan There are three types of award which were made under the Deferred Bonus Plan: shares purchased on the employees behalf as part of the annual bonus, matching shares and strategic shares.
The following table illustrates the number of shares awarded under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
The final award under the Deferred Bonus Plan was granted in 2013 and vested in 2016, therefore the Plan is now closed.
2016 2015 Number Number Million Million Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.1 0.2 Exercised during the period 0.1 0.1 Outstanding at the end of the period 0.1 An amount of 0.1m has been charged 2015: 1.8m credit to the consolidated income statement in respect of the number of awards which were made at the end of the vesting period.
Related party disclosure The following table provides the total amount of significant transactions which have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year and outstanding balances at the period end.
Sales to Sales to Purchases Purchases Amounts related related from related from related owed to parties parties parties parties related goods services goods services parties Related party m m m m m Joint ventures 2016 26.0 0.1 0.2 0.4 2015 18.4 0.4 1.4 0.8 Group pension plans 2016 4.1 2015 2.1 Contributions to the Group pension plans are disclosed in note 24.
Terms & conditions of transactions with related parties Sales to and from related parties are made at normal market prices.
Outstanding balances at the period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party balances.
For 2016, the Group has not raised any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties 2015: nil as the payment history has been excellent.
This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
2016 2015 Compensation of key management personnel m m Short-term employee benefits 6.1 4.9 Share-based payments 0.5 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.3 6.3 5.7 2016 2015 Emoluments paid to the Directors of The Weir Group PLC m m Remuneration 3.3 2.4 Gains made on the exercise of Long Term Incentive Plan awards 0.4 3.3 2.8 Key management comprises the Board and the Group Executive.
Further details of the Directors remuneration are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 109.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 173 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 30.
Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business in order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and no speculative positions are taken.
Derivatives are recognised as held for trading and at fair value through profit and loss unless they are designated in IAS 39 compliant hedge relationships.
The table below summarises the types of derivative financial instrument included within each balance sheet category.
2016 2015 m m Included in non-current assets Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.1 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 8.3 Other forward foreign currency contracts 0.1 8.5 Included in current assets Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.2 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 0.9 Other forward foreign currency contracts 24.0 13.1 24.0 14.2 Included in current liabilities Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 1.2 1.5 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 15.2 4.4 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 6.3 Other forward foreign currency contracts 7.5 8.2 30.2 14.1 Included in non-current liabilities Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.9 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 14.7 4.8 Other forward foreign currency contracts 0.2 0.1 14.9 5.8 Net derivative financial liabilities assets 21.1 2.8 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 174 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements B.
Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities with the exception of derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value net of transaction costs.
Subsequently they are recognised at either fair value or amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Carrying amounts and fair values The table below shows the carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are reported in the financial statements.
Fair value measurement using Level 1 Quoted Level 2 Level 3 Carrying prices in Significant Significant amount Fair value active observable unobservable 2016 2016 markets inputs inputs m m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 24.0 24.0 24.0 Contingent consideration receivable 3.9 3.9 3.9 Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments 481.8 481.8 Cash & short-term deposits 258.6 258.6 768.3 768.3 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 7.7 7.7 7.7 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 37.4 37.4 37.4 Contingent consideration payable 31.0 31.0 31.0 Amortised cost: Fixed rate borrowings 917.5 1,012.7 1,012.7 Floating rate borrowings 173.2 173.2 173.2 Obligations under finance leases 0.8 0.8 0.8 Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings 1.6 1.6 Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income 443.8 443.8 1,613.0 1,708.2 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 175 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial assets and liabilities continued Carrying amounts and fair values continued Fair value measurement using Restated Level 1 note 2 Restated Quoted Level 2 Level 3 Carrying note 2 prices in Significant Significant amount Fair value active observable unobservable 2015 2015 markets inputs inputs m m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 13.2 13.2 13.2 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 9.5 9.5 9.5 Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments 434.4 434.4 Cash & short-term deposits 184.0 184.0 641.1 641.1 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 8.3 8.3 8.3 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 11.6 11.6 11.6 Contingent consideration payable 35.9 35.9 35.9 Amortised cost: Fixed rate borrowings 767.7 745.2 745.2 Floating rate borrowings 236.3 236.3 236.3 Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.3 0.3 Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings 4.7 4.7 Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income 367.3 367.3 1,432.1 1,409.6 The fair value of cash and short-term deposits, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables approximates their carrying amount due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
As such disclosure of the fair value hierarchy for these items is not required.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: Level 3: techniques which use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
At 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2016 the Group has classified contingent consideration as level 3.
A reconciliation of the movements in the contingent consideration fair value has been included in note 13.
During the periods ended 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2016, there were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 fair value measurements and no transfers into or out of level 3 fair value measurements.
Offsetting Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where the Group currently has a legal right to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Amounts set Net amounts Gross off in the presented in the amounts balance sheet balance sheet Cash & short term deposits 260.9m 2.3m 258.6m Interest bearing loans & borrowings current 146.3m 2.3m 144.0m As at 1 January 2016, cash & short-term deposits of 184.0m and current interest bearing loans & borrowings of 195.6m were presented after elimination of debit and credit balances within individual pools of 405.6m.
The Group has also entered into arrangements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting but still allow for the related amounts to be offset in specific circumstances.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had derivative financial instruments of 21.1m which were subject to master netting arrangements but not offset.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 176 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements C. Hedging activities The Group designates certain derivative financial instruments in either cash flow hedging or net investment hedging relationships in accordance with IAS 39.
Cash Flow Hedge Net Investment Hedge Hedge relationship Cash flow hedge of highly probable forecast Net investment hedge of foreign operations foreign currency purchases and sales Hedged risk Transactional foreign exchange risk Translational foreign exchange risk Hedging instruments Forward foreign currency contracts Foreign currency debt Cross currency swaps Forward foreign currency contracts For each type of derivative financial instrument, the net carrying amount, maturity dates and the amounts recognised for the period in profit or loss and equity are set out in the table below.
In the financial statements these amounts are offset by the retranslation of currency denominated receivables and payables.
Gain Net recognised Loss Loss carrying in profit recognised recognised amount Maturity or loss in equity in inventory Period ended 31 December 2016 m dates m m m Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 1.2 2017 to 2018 1.9 0.7 0.4 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 15.2 2017 53.6 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 21.0 2017 to 2018 26.6 Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through profit or loss 16.3 2017 to 2019 40.6 21.1 42.5 80.9 0.4 Gain loss recognised Loss gain Gain Net carrying in profit recognised recognised amount Maturity or loss in equity in inventory 52 weeks ended 1 January 2016 m dates m m m Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 2.1 2016 to 2017 1.7 1.2 0.1 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 3.5 2016 3.2 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 3.5 2017 to 2018 1.4 Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through profit or loss 4.9 2016 to 2017 19.6 2.8 17.9 3.0 0.1 D. Financial risk management Financial risk management of the Group is carried out by Group Treasury in conjunction with individual subsidiaries.
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Market risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk in the ordinary course of business.
i Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to both transactional and translational foreign exchange risk.
Transactional risk arises when subsidiaries enter into transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency for operational or financing purposes.
Translational risk arises on the translation of overseas earnings and investments into Sterling for consolidated reporting purposes.
Foreign currency transactional and translational risk could result in volatility in reported consolidated earnings and net assets.
In respect of transactional foreign currency risk, the Group maintains a policy that all operating units eliminate exposures on material committed foreign currency transactions, usually by undertaking forward foreign currency contracts through the Groups Treasury function.
Certain companies apply cash flow hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39.
The Group does not engage in any speculative foreign exchange transactions.
The Group has material foreign investments in the USA, Australia, Europe and South Africa.
In respect of translational risk, the Group has a policy of partially hedging its net investment exposure to US Dollar US$, Australian Dollar AUD, Euro EUR and South African Rand ZAR denominated subsidiaries.
This is achieved through designating an element of foreign currency borrowings, forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps as net investment hedges against the Groups investments.
The Group does not hedge the translational exposure arising from profit and loss items.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 177 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued D. Financial risk management continued Sensitivity to foreign exchange rates The Group considers the most significant transactional foreign exchange risk relates to the Australian Dollar, Euro and US Dollar.
The following table shows the impact of movements in derivative valuation as a result of a weakening of these currencies.
Effect Effect on Increase in on profit equity currency gain loss gain Transactional foreign exchange rate m m 2016 Australian Dollar 25% 6.2 18.5 Euro 25% 8.0 12.8 US Dollar 25% 1.1 124.6 2015 Australian Dollar 25% 0.8 14.9 Euro 25% 1.5 6.7 US Dollar 25% 2.3 101.2 The Group is also exposed to translational foreign exchange risk as a result of its global operations and therefore the earnings of the Group will fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation was denominated in the following currencies.
Restated note 2 2016 2015 Translational foreign exchange m m US Dollar 70.0 112.8 Australian Dollar 33.8 31.6 Euro 26.2 22.3 Canadian Dollar 36.6 30.6 United Arab Emirates Dirham 5.8 21.6 Chilean Peso 35.6 30.6 South African Rand 4.9 1.3 Brazilian Real 3.6 4.3 Russian Rouble 6.9 3.8 UK Sterling 11.2 13.0 Other 1.8 11.6 Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 214.0 257.5 ii Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings.
Changes in interest rates will affect future interest cash flows on floating rate debt and the fair value of fixed rate borrowings.
The earnings of the Group are sensitive to changes in interest rates in respect of floating rate borrowings.
As at 31 December 2016, 16% of the Groups borrowings were at floating interest rates.
The interest rate profile of the Groups interest bearing borrowings was: 2016 2015 Floating Fixed Floating Fixed rate rate Total rate rate Total m m m m m m US Dollar 32.7 875.2 907.9 90.9 726.2 817.1 Euro 142.1 142.1 118.0 118.0 UK Sterling 43.0 43.0 28.0 43.0 71.0 Sensitivity to interest rates Based on borrowings at 31 December 2016, a 1% increase in interest rates would have 1.7m impact on the profit before tax and amortisation of the Group.
This assumes that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the period and that all other variables are constant throughout the period.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 178 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is managed by monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and ensuring that sufficient committed facilities are in place to meet possible downside scenarios.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of fixed rate loan notes, bank loans, commercial paper and bank overdrafts.
Further details of the Groups borrowing facilities are disclosed in note 20.
The tables below show only the financial liabilities of the Group by maturity.
The amounts disclosed in the table are undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not agree to the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
The Group manages its liquidity to ensure that it always has sufficient funding to grow the business and is able to meet its obligations as they fall due.
Less than More than 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total Period ended 31 December 2016 m m m m m Cross currency swaps outflow 97.2 58.7 155.9 Cross currency swaps inflow 88.5 44.2 132.7 Forward foreign currency contracts net outflow 0.9 0.1 0.1 1.1 Cash flows relating to derivative financial liabilities 9.6 14.6 0.1 24.3 Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income 461.3 13.7 475.0 Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.8 Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings 1.6 1.6 Bank loans 0.4 0.4 33.8 34.6 Commercial paper 142.1 142.1 Fixed rate notes 39.2 134.5 255.7 657.0 1,086.4 Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial liabilities 644.9 148.9 289.7 657.0 1,740.5 654.5 163.5 289.8 657.0 1,764.8 Less than More than 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total 52 weeks ended 1 January 2016 m m m m m Cross currency swaps outflow 6.9 81.6 50.0 138.5 Cross currency swaps inflow 5.5 88.5 45.3 139.3 Forward foreign currency contracts net outflow 0.8 0.9 1.7 Cash flows relating to derivative financial liabilities 2.2 6.0 4.7 0.9 Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income 380.4 22.6 403.0 Obligations under finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings 4.7 4.7 Bank loans 24.8 0.8 47.1 72.7 Commercial paper 166.5 166.5 Fixed rate notes 33.4 33.4 308.8 567.3 942.9 Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial liabilities 609.9 34.3 378.6 567.3 1,590.1 612.1 28.3 383.3 567.3 1,591.0 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 179 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued D. Financial risk management continued Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties to its derivative financial instruments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables with risk spread over a large number of countries and customers, with no significant concentration of risk.
Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit and insurance.
In addition, applicable credit worthiness checks are undertaken with external credit rating agencies before entering into contracts with customers and credit limits are set as appropriate and enforced.
As shown in note 17, the trade receivables presented in the balance sheet are net of allowance for doubtful debts.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identifiable loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of cash flows.
The Groups exposure to the credit risk of financial instruments is limited by the adherence to counterparty credit limits, and by only trading with counterparties that have an investment grade credit rating or better at contract inception, based upon ratings provided by the major agencies.
Exposures to those counterparties are regularly reviewed and, when the market view of a counterpartys credit quality changes, adjusted as considered appropriate.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of the financial assets of the Group.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains robust capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group monitors capital using the following indicators.
Net debt to EBITDA cover Net debt to EBITDA comprises net debt divided by operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, depreciation, intangibles amortisation and impairment.
The Groups banking arrangements require the calculation of net debt to EBITDA not greater than 3.5 and interest cover not less than 3.5 as part of the bi-annual financial covenant certifications.
For the purposes of the covenants required by the Groups lenders, the net debt is to be converted at the exchange rate used in the preparation of the Groups income statement and cash flows, i. e. average rate.
In addition, profits of businesses acquired in the financial year have to be included as if the acquisitions occurred at the start of the financial year.
The Group considers that the ratio of net debt to EBITDA is the key metric from a capital management perspective and seeks to maintain the ratio below two times.
Given the prolonged downturn currently in oil and gas markets, the metric has increased to 2.8 times but remains actively managed.
2016 2015 Net debt at average exchange rates m 758.3 796.5 Operating profit loss m 90.3 155.8 Exceptional items included in operating profit note 5 m 73.1 113.3 Depreciation, intangibles amortisation & impairment m 106.5 367.3 EBITDA m 269.9 324.8 Net debt to EBITDA cover ratio 2.8 2.5 Interest cover Interest cover comprises operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation divided by net finance costs excluding exceptional items and other finance costs.
2016 2015 Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation m 214.0 261.4 Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and other finance costs m 40.7 35.8 Interest cover ratio 5.3 7.3 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 180 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Gearing ratio Gearing comprises net debt divided by total equity.
Net debt comprises cash & short-term deposits and interest-bearing loans & borrowings note 26.
Exchange rates The principal exchange rates applied in the preparation of these financial statements were as follows.
2016 2015 Average rate per US Dollar 1.36 1.53 Australian Dollar 1.83 2.04 Euro 1.22 1.38 Canadian Dollar 1.80 1.96 United Arab Emirates Dirham 4.98 5.61 Chilean Peso 918.59 1,000.85 South African Rand 20.00 19.53 Brazilian Real 4.75 5.10 Russian Rouble 91.20 93.65 Closing rate per US Dollar 1.22 1.47 Australian Dollar 1.70 2.02 Euro 1.17 1.36 Canadian Dollar 1.65 2.04 United Arab Emirates Dirham 4.49 5.41 Chilean Peso 813.76 1,044.14 South African Rand 16.63 22.81 Brazilian Real 3.97 5.84 Russian Rouble 73.89 107.45 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 181
