Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Statement of Group Accounting Policies Governance General information 151 William Hill PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office Financial isGreenside House, 50 Station Road, London N22 7TP.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the statements Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45 and note 2.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which theGroup operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with our accounting policies.
Basis of accounting The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The Group financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except where certain assets or liabilities are held at amortised cost or at fair value as described in our accounting policies.
The key accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Adoption of new and revised standards In preparing the Group financial statements for the current period, there have been no new IFRSs, amendments to IFRSs or IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations that have been adopted by the Group.
Standards in issue but not effective At the date of authorisation of the Group financial statements, the following Standards, amendments and Interpretations, which have notbeen applied in these Group financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 1 amended Presentation of Financial Statements IFRS 2 amended Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions IAS 7 amended Statement of Cash Flows IFRS 9 revised Financial instruments IFRS 10 amended Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11 amended Joint arrangements IAS 12 amended Income taxes IFRS 12 amended Disclosure of Interests in other entities IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IAS 16 amended Property, plant and equipment IFRS 16 Leases IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration IAS 27 amended Separate financial statements IAS 28 amended Investments in associates and joint ventures IAS 38 amended Intangible assets IAS 40 amended Investment property Annual Improvements 2012-2014 cycle Annual Improvements 2014-2016 cycle IFRS 9 Financial instruments will supersede IAS 39 in its entirety, and is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
The potential impacts of the new standard that may impact the Group are: classification and measurement: New classification and measurement criteria require financial instruments to be classified into one of three categories being amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value.
Classification will be determined by the business model and contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruments: and hedge accounting: The general hedge accounting mechanisms of IAS 39 have been retained, however greater flexibility has been introduced over the instruments eligible for hedge accounting and effectiveness testing has been more closely aligned with the underlying risk management practices of the entity.
The Group is reviewing the requirements of the new standard to fully determine its impact.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers, with an effective date for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Early assessment of the requirements of the new standard suggest it will not have a material impact upon the Groups reported performance and the Group will continue to assess the full impact to ensure it is ready to implement the new standard in advance ofitseffective date.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Statement of Group Accounting Policies continued IFRS 16 Leases will replace IAS 17 in its Business combinations Goodwill entirety and is effective for accounting 152 On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and Goodwill arising on consolidation periods beginning on or after 1 January contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are represents the excess of the cost of 2019.
It will result in most leases being measured at their fair values at the date acquisition over the Groups interest in the recognised on the Statement of Financial of acquisition.
Anyexcess of the cost of fair value ofthe identifiable assets and Position.
The Group continues to assess acquisition over the fair values of the liabilities, including separately identifiable the full impact of IFRS 16 but since the identifiable net assets acquired, including intangible assets, of a subsidiary, associate impact is influenced by interest rates separately identifiable intangible assets, or jointly controlled entity at the date of in future years, it is not yet possible to is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is initially recognised reasonably quantify its effects.
At this on acquisition, i. e. where the cost of as an asset at cost and is subsequently stage, the directors assess that the acquisition is below the fair values of the measured atcost less any accumulated implementation of the new standard may identifiable net assets acquired, is credited impairment losses.
have a material impact upon the Groups to the Income Statement in the period reported performance, Statement of On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or of acquisition.
Financial Position and operating cash flows.
jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the We do not anticipate a material impact on Interests in associates and determination of the profit or loss the results or net assets of the Group from joint ventures on disposal.
any other standards that are in issue but An associate is an entity over which the Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the not yet effective.
Group is in a position to exercise significant date of transition to IFRS has been retained influence, but not control or joint control, at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject Basis of consolidation through participation in the financial and to impairment testing.
The Group financial statements operating policy decisions of the investee.
incorporate the financial statements of A joint venture is an entity in which the Revenue recognition the Company and entities controlled by Group holds an interest on a long-term the Company its subsidiaries made up Revenue is measured at the fair value of basis and which is jointly controlled by the to 27 December 2016.
Control is achieved the consideration received or receivable Group and one ormore venturers under a where the Company has the power to from customers and represents amounts contractual agreement.
govern the financial and operating policies receivable for goods and services that of an investee entity so as to obtain the Group is in business to provide, net of The results and assets and liabilities benefits from its activities.
discounts, marketing inducements and of associates and joint ventures are VAT, as set outbelow.
incorporated in the Group financial The results of subsidiaries acquired or statements using the equity method of disposed of during the period are included In the case of the LBO including gaming accounting.
Interests in associates and joint in the Consolidated Income Statement machines, US, Online Sportsbook and ventures are carried in the Consolidated fromthe effective date of acquisition telebetting, Online casino including games Statement of Financial Position at cost or up to the effective date of disposal, on theOnline arcade and other numbers asadjusted by post-acquisition changes as appropriate.
bets and Australian operations, revenue in the Groups share of the net assets of represents gains and losses from gambling Where necessary, adjustments are made theentity, less any impairment in thevalue activity in the period.
Openpositions are to the financial statements of subsidiaries of individual investments.
Losses of the carried at fair value and gains and losses to bring the accounting policies used into associates and joint ventures in excess arising on this valuation are recognised line with those used by the Group.
All intraofthe Groups interest in those entities are in revenue, aswell as gains and losses Group transactions, balances, income and not recognised.
realised on positions that have closed.
Revenue from the Online poker business Any excess of the cost of acquisition over reflects the net income rake earned from the Groups share of the fair values of the poker games completed bytheperiodend.
identifiable net assets of the entity at the date ofacquisition is recognised as goodwill In the case of the greyhound stadia, within the interests in associates line.
revenue represents income arising Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition from the operation of the greyhound below the Groups share of the fair values stadia intheperiod, including sales of of the identifiable net assets of the entity refreshments and tote income.
at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the Income Other operating income mostly represents rents receivable on properties let by the Statement in the period of acquisition.
Group, bookmaking software licensing Where a Group company transacts income and income from software with an associate or joint venture of the development, which are recognised on an Group, profits and losses are eliminated accrualsbasis.
to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant entity, unless immaterial.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred, inwhich case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance On consolidation, the assets and Investment income Taxation liabilities of the Groups overseas 153 Interest income The tax expense represents the sum of the operations are translated at exchange Financial tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, statements rates prevailing atthe period end by reference to the principal outstanding date.
Income and expense items are The tax currently payable is based on and at the effective interest rateapplicable.
translated at the average exchange rates taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit for the period unless exchange rates differs from net profit as reported in the Leasing fluctuate significantly, inwhich case the Income Statement because it excludes spot rate for significant items is used.
items of income or expense that are Leases are classified as finance leases Exchange differences arising, ifany, taxable or deductible in other periods and whenever the terms of the lease transfer are classified as equity and transferred it further excludes items that are never substantially all the risks and rewards to the Groups translation reserve.
The Groups liability ofownership to the lessee.
All other leases Such translation differences are recognised for current tax is calculated using tax rates are classified as operating leases.
as income or as expenses in the period in that have been enacted or substantively Assets held under finance leases are which the operation is disposed of.
enacted by theperiod end date.
recognised as assets of the Group at their Deferred tax is the tax expected to be fair value or, if lower, at the present value Finance costs payable or recoverable on differences ofthe minimum lease payments, each Finance costs and income arising on between the carrying amounts of assets determined at the inception of the lease.
interest-bearing financial instruments and liabilities in the financial statements The corresponding liability to the lessor carried at amortised cost are recognised and the corresponding tax bases used in is included in the Statement of Financial in the Consolidated Income Statement the computation of taxable profit, and is Position as a finance lease obligation.
using the effective interest rate method.
accounted for using the liability method.
Lease payments are apportioned between Finance costs include the amortisation Deferred tax liabilities are generally finance charges and reduction of the lease of fees that are an integral part of the recognised for all taxable temporary obligation so as toachieve a constant effective finance cost of a financial differences and deferred tax assets are rate of interest on the remaining balance instrument, including issue costs, and the recognised to the extent that it is probable ofthe liability.
Finance charges are charged amortisation of any other differences that taxable profits will be available against directly against income, unless they are between the amount initially recognised which deductible temporary differences directly attributable to qualifying assets, and the redemption price.
Such assets and liabilities inwhich case they are capitalised.
are not recognised if the temporary Rentals payable under operating leases are difference arises from goodwill or from the Profit before interest and tax charged to income on a straight-line basis initial recognition other than in a business Profit before interest and tax is stated over the term of the relevant lease period.
combination of other assets and liabilities after the share of results of associates in a transaction that affects neither the Benefits received and receivable as an and joint ventures but before investment taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
incentive to enter into an operating lease income and finance costs.
are also spread on a straight-line basis over Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for the leaseterm.
taxable temporary differences arising Retirement benefit costs on investments in subsidiaries and Payments to defined contribution Foreign currencies associates, except where theGroup is able retirement benefit schemes are charged as to control the reversal of the temporary Transactions in currencies other than an expense as they fall due.
difference and it is probable that the pounds sterling are recorded at the rates For defined benefit retirement schemes, temporary difference will not reverse in the of exchange prevailing on the dates of the cost of providing benefits is foreseeable future.
At each period end date, determined using the Projected Unit monetary assets and liabilities that are The carrying amount of deferred tax assets Credit Method, with actuarial valuations denominated in foreign currencies are is reviewed at each period end date and being carried out at each period end date.
re-translated at the rates prevailing on the reduced to the extent that it is no longer Actuarial remeasurements are recognised period end date.
Non-monetary assets probable that sufficient taxable profits will infullinthe period in which they occur.
and liabilities carried at fair value that be available to allow all or part of the asset Theyare recognised outside profit or loss aredenominated in foreign currencies are to be recovered.
and presented in the Statement of Other translated at the rates prevailing at the Comprehensive Income.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates date when the fair value was determined.
that are expected to apply in the period Gains and losses arising on retranslation The net retirement benefit asset or when the liability is settled or the asset is are included in net profit or loss for the obligation recognised in the Statement of realised based ontax laws and rates that period, except for exchange differences Financial Position represents the present have been enacted at the period end date.
arising on non-monetary assets and value of the definedbenefit obligation as Deferred tax is charged or credited in the liabilities, where the changes in fair value adjusted for unrecognised past service cost Income Statement, except when it relates are recognised directly inequity.
and as reduced by the fair value of scheme to items charged or credited directly to assets.
Any asset resulting from this In order to hedge its exposure to certain equity, in which case the deferred tax is calculation is limited to past service cost foreign exchange risks, the Group makes also dealt with inequity.
plus the present value of available refunds efforts to match its foreign currency assets and reductions in future contributions to and liabilities andwhere necessary the the plan.
Group takes out foreign currency hedges.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Statement of Group Accounting Policies continued Internally generated intangible assets computer software and systems 154 Expenditure on initial investigation and research of computer software and systems is recognised as an expense in the period inwhich it isincurred.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development of computer systems is recognised only if all ofthe following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified such as software and new processes : it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, generally between three andfive years.
Whereno internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised asan expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Intangible assets licences Betting licences recognised in acquisitions are recorded at fair value.
They are judged to have an indefinite life and are accordingly not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
The directors consider that the Groups licences have an indefinite life owing to: thefact that the Group is a significant operator in a well-established market: the proven and sustained demand for bookmaking services: andthe Groups track record of successfully renewing its betting permits and licences.
Intangible assets arising on acquisitions Intangible assets arising on acquisitions are recorded at their fair value.
Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write off the valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on astraight-line basis over itsexpected useful life, as follows: Acquired brands assessed separately for each asset, with lives ranging up to five years Customer relationships between 18 months and eight years Bookmaking and mobile technology between three and five years Wagering lottery contracts ten to 12 years Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings held for use in the supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the Statement of Financial Position at their cost, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Long leasehold properties 50 years Short leasehold properties over the unexpired period of the lease Short leasehold improvements ten years Fixtures, fittings and equipment and motor vehicles at variable rates between three and ten years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Inventories Investment property Financial instruments 155 Investment property, which is property Inventories represent goods for resale Financial assets and financial liabilities Financial within the greyhound stadia and the held to earn rentals and or for capital are recognised on the Groups Statement statements appreciation, is stated at its fair value USoperations.
They are stated at the of Financial Position when the Group lower of cost and net realisable value.
Gains or losses becomes a party tothecontractual arising from changes in the fair value of Cost is calculated using the weighted provisions of the instrument.
investment property are included in profit Cash and cash equivalents or loss in the period in which they arise.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise Share-based payments cash and short-term bank deposits held Impairment of tangible and The Group issues equity-settled shareby the Group with an original maturity intangible assets based payments to certain employees and ofthreemonths or less.
operates an HMRC approved Save As You At each period end date, the Group reviews Earn SAYE share option scheme open the carrying amounts of its goodwill, Receivables to all eligible employees which allows the tangible and intangible assets to determine Trade and other receivables do not purchase of shares at a discount.
The cost whether there isany indication that those carry any interest and are stated at their to the Group of share-based payment assets have suffered an impairment loss.
gross receivable value as reduced by plans is measured at fair value at the If any such indication exists, the recoverable appropriate allowances for estimated date of grant.
Fair value is expensed on a amount of the asset is estimated in order irrecoverable amounts.
straight-line basis over the vesting period, to determine the extent of the impairment adjusted forthe Groups estimate of shares Loans receivable loss if any.
Where the asset does not that will eventually vest.
generate cash flows that are independent Loans receivable comprise loans from other assets, the Group estimates granted to other parties which have Fair value is measured by use of the the recoverable amount of the cashfixed or determinable payments and Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula.
generating unit to which the asset belongs.
are not quoted in an active market.
The expected life used in the model has An intangible asset with an indefinite useful These are measured at amortised been adjusted, based onmanagements life is tested for impairment annually and cost, less any impairment, with interest best estimates, for the effects of nonwhenever there is an indication that the income recognised using the effective transferability, exercise restrictions asset may be impaired.
Where relevant, thevalue of the option has The recoverable amount is the higher of Investments also been adjusted to take into account any fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Investments comprise shareholdings market conditions applicable to the option.
In assessing value in use, the estimated in entities where the Group is not in a future pre-tax cash flows are discounted At each period end date, the Group revises position to have control, joint control or to their present value using a pre-tax its estimate of the number of equity significant influence over the financial and discount rate that reflects current market instruments expected to vest as a result operating policy decisions of the entity.
assessments of the time value of money of the effect of nonmarket-based vesting These are classified as available-for-sale and the risks specific to the asset for conditions.
The impact of the revision of financial assets and are revalued to fair which the estimates of future cash flows the original estimates, if any, is recognised value at each period end with any fair have not been adjusted.
This process is in profit or loss such that thecumulative value movements recognised in other described in more detail in note 12 to the expense reflects the revised estimate, with comprehensive income.
The fair value is financial statements.
measured based on the share price of If the recoverable amount of an asset or the entity.
SAYE share options granted to employees cash-generating unit is estimated to be are treated as cancelled when employees Financial liabilities and equity less than its carrying amount, the carrying cease to contribute to the scheme orresign amount of the asset or cash-generating Financial liabilities and equity instruments fromthe Group.
This results in accelerated unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
are classified according to the substance of recognition of the expenses that would An impairment loss is recognised as an the contractual arrangements entered into.
have arisen over the remainder of the expense immediately.
An equity instrument is any contract that original vesting period.
evidences a residual interest in the assets Other than for goodwill, where an of the Group after deducting all of its impairment loss subsequently reverses, Equity instruments liabilities.
The Group derecognises financial the carrying amount of the asset or Equity instruments issued by the Company liabilities when and only when the Groups cash-generating unit is increased to the are recorded at the proceeds received, net obligations are discharged, cancelled or revised estimate of its recoverable amount, of direct issue costs.
but only to the point that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cashgenerating unit inprior periods.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as incomeimmediately.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Statement of Group Accounting Policies continued For any derivative instrument that is part of Interest-bearing borrowings Exceptional items and a hedging relationship which is designated 156 adjustments Interest-bearing borrowings are recorded as effective, changes in the fair value of at the fair value of the proceeds received, The Group presents adjusted results, the derivative financial instruments are net of discounts and direct issue costs.
as described in note 3, which differ from recognised directly in equity.
Changes in the Finance charges, including the unwinding statutory results due to the exclusion of fair value of ineffective hedges, including of any discounts, premiums payable on exceptional items and adjustments.
the ineffective portion of effective hedges, settlement or redemption and direct issue arerecognised immediately in the Income Exceptional items are those items the costs, are charged on an accrual basis to Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm directors consider to be one-off or material the Income Statement using the effective commitment or forecasted transaction in nature that should be brought to the interest method.
Subsequent toinitial results in the recognition of an asset readers attention in understanding the recognition, interest-bearing borrowings or a liability, then, at the time the asset Groups financial performance.
are stated at amortised cost.
Any accrued or liability is recognised, the associated finance costs are included in accruals within Adjustments are recurring items that gains or losses on the derivative that had trade and other payables.
are excluded from internal measures of previously been recognised in equity are underlying performance and which are included in the initial measurement of the Payables not considered by the directors to be asset or liability.
For hedges that do not Trade and other payables are not interestexceptional.
They comprise the following: result in the recognition of an asset or a bearing and are initially measured at liability, amounts deferred in equity are the amortisation of specific intangible their fair value, and subsequently at their recognised in the line of Income Statement assets recognised in acquisitions: amortised cost.
relating to the hedged item, in the same the recognition of interest income on period in which the hedged item affects net Derivative financial redeemable convertible preference profit or loss.
instruments and hedge shares see notes 16 and 24 : and accounting Hedge accounting is discontinued when fair value movements relating to the hedging instrument expires or is sold, The Groups activities expose it to the risks redeemable convertible preference terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies of changes in interest rates and foreign shares and warrants over equity for hedgeaccounting.
At that time, any currency exchange rates.
The Group may investments see notes 16 and24.
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging use fixed rate borrowings to hedge some instrument recognised in equity is retained of its interest rate exposure.
The Group in equity until the forecasted transaction may make use of foreign currency forwards occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer to hedge a proportion of its largest net expected to occur, the net cumulative gain foreign currency transactional exposures.
or loss recognised in equity is transferred Where possible and practicable, the Group to net profit or loss for the period.
retains foreign currency cash balances Derivatives embedded in other financial equivalent to its foreign currency liabilities instruments or other host contracts are to hedge its exposure to foreign currency treated as separate derivatives when their exchange rates.
The Group does not risks and characteristics are not closely use derivative financial instruments for related to those of host contracts and the speculative purposes.
host contracts are not carried at fair value The use of financial derivatives is governed with unrealised gains or losses reported by the Groups policies approved by the in the Income Statement under other Board of directors, which provide written operating expenses.
principles on the use of financial derivatives.
Ante post bets are carried at fair market All derivative financial instruments are value as they meet the definition of a initially measured at fair value at the derivative.
The resulting gains and losses contract date and are subsequently from bets areincluded in revenue.
The net remeasured to their fair value at liability resulting from open positions is subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in reported on the Statement of Financial fair value of any derivative instrument Position under the term Derivative financial that is not part of a hedging relationship instruments within financial liabilities under are recognised immediately in the the term Held for Trading.
