William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abbreviations and glossary ABI Gross win NYX Association of British Insurers Gross win is an industry measure which NYX Gaming Group Limited 150 is calculated as total customer stakes and subsidiaries Adjusted operating profit less customer winnings.
This measure is OTC Profit before interest and tax, excluding non-statutory and differs from net revenue exceptional items and other defined Over-The-Counter as net revenue is stated after deductions adjustments.
We previously referred to for free bets and customer bonuses.
It is PBIT this metric as 'Operating profit' and have used by management to evaluate the Profit Before Interest and Tax updated its naming to clarify that it is impact of sporting results and customer an adjusted measure.
Further detail on activity on performance.
POCT adjusted measures is provided in note 3 to Point of Consumption Tax.
The UK Gross win margin the Group financial statements.
Government implemented a new This is an industry measure that AGM online gambling regulatory regime on represents gross win as a proportion of 1 November 2014 on the basis of Annual General Meeting amounts wagered where the consumer islocated.
From Amounts wagered HMRC 1 December 2014, it also implemented a This is an industry term that represents the new gross profits tax at 15%on revenue on HM Revenue and Customs gross takings on sports betting the same point of consumption basis.
Horseracing levy Company PSP A levy attributable to bets taken on UK William Hill PLC, the ultimate holding Performance Share Plan horse racing and payable to the Horserace company of the William Hill Group Betting Levy Board, primarily for the RIDDOR purposes of augmenting prize money CR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and available for winning horses and providing Corporate Responsibility Dangerous Occurrences certain racecourse amenities DCMS SIS IAS Department for Culture, Media and Sport Satellite Information Services Holdings International Accounting Standards Limited or its subsidiary Satellite Digital Information Services Limited, as the IASB In the context of our Australian operations, context requires International Accounting Standards Board Digital revenues are those that do not Sportsbook derive from our BDM operations IBAS Bets placed and accepted online DPS Independent Betting Adjudication Service onsporting and other events, or via OTC Dividends per share IFRS and SSBTs in Retail International Financial Reporting Standards EBITDA Sports books Earnings before interest, taxation, KPI The dedicated sports betting areas depreciation and amortisation operated within casinos in Nevada Key Performance Indicators EBMS SSBT LBO Executive Bonus Matching Scheme Self-Service Betting Terminal Licensed Betting Office EPS TSR LIBOR Earnings per share Total Shareholder Return London Interbank Offered Rate FTE VAT LTIP Full Time Equivalent Value Added Tax Long-Term Incentive Plan Gambling Commission William Hill or the Group MGD The Gambling Commission for Great The Company and its subsidiaries or any Machine Games Duty.
A duty charged by Britain, the regulatory body for casinos, ofthem, as the context may require theUK Government on gaming machine bingo clubs, gaming machines, betting, netrevenue.
William Hill Online remote gambling and larger lotteries including all local lotteries but excluding the NeoGames William Hill Online was a joint venture National Lottery between William Hill and Playtech set up NeoGames S. a. r. l and subsidiaries in 2008.
Following the acquisition of Grand Parade Net revenue Playtechs stake in April 2013, it is fully Grand Parade Limited and subsidiaries owned by the William Hill Group and is This is an industry term equivalent to referred to as Online in this Annual Report.
Revenue as described in the notes to the financial statements
