Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Glossary Average Room Rate ARR Equity stores Hotel accommodation income divided by the number Costa stores leased or owned by Whitbread, as opposed of rooms occupied by guests.
to those leased or operated under franchise agreements.
Barista IAS An individual with specific training to expertly prepare International Accounting Standards.
and serve handmade espressobased coffees.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR The yearonyear growth rate of an annualised gain over Income before fixed costs IBFC a specified number of years.
Hotels & Restaurants operating profit before directly attributable fixed costs such as rent, rates, insurance, etc.
Colocation head office and central costs.
To obtain the IBFC margin A site which has both a Premier Inn and a pub restaurant IBFC is divided by sales.
in one location where the pub restaurant is not a Whitbreadowned brand or business.
Income after fixed costs IAFC Hotels & Restaurants operating profit after directly Costa at Home attributable fixed costs but before allocating head office Costa have teamed up with Tassimo to bring a range and central costs.
To obtain the IAFC margin, IAFC is of Costa at Home drinks for customers to enjoy at home.
Directors forum Joint sites A group of Whitbreads senior leaders.
A site which has both a Premier Inn and Whitbreadowned pub restaurant in one location.
Dynamic pricing system The system which we deploy to vary our prices according to demand levels and room availability within certain Like for like sales prescribed limits.
Period over period change in total sales, less sales generated by businesses acquired or disposed of and retail outlets opened or closed during the current year Earnings and the previous year.
Profit after tax which is attributable to the parent shareholders.
Net Guest Score Earnings per share EPS Based on the fundamental perspective that every companys Earnings divided by the weighted average of ordinary customers can be divided into three categories when shares in issue during the year after deducting treasury completing a survey with ten score choices: Promoters score shares and shares held by an independently managed nine to ten, Passives score seven to eight, and Detractors share ownership trust ESOT.
The net guest score can be calculated by taking the percentage of customers who are Promoters EBITDA and subtract the percentage who are Detractors.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDAR Occupancy Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation Number of hotel bedrooms occupied by guests expressed and rent.
as a percentage of the number of bedrooms available in the period.
Engagement score The engagement score is calculated by adding together Operating margin the positive responses to the Your Say questions regarding Operating profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue.
pride in the organisation, advocacy, recommending the Company as a place of work and intention to stay and motivation.
These scores are then averaged to produce an overall engagement score.
Whitbread Shareholder information Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Glossary 170 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Profit per outlet Operating profit after allocation of overheads but before exceptional items divided by the average of the opening and closing number of outlets.
RevPAR yield Revenue per available room is also known as yield.
This hotel measure is achieved by multiplying the ARR by the occupancy rate.
This measure ignores nonroom income such as food and beverage.
Returns, Return on Capital Employed or ROCE Dividing the underlying profit before interest and tax for the year by net assets at the balance sheet date, adding back debt, taxation liabilities and the pension deficit.
Solus sites Consist of standalone Premier Inn hotels with an integrated restaurant.
System sales Retail sales from Costa outlets irrespective of whether it is an equity or a franchise store.
Tassimo The Tassimo Hot Beverage System is a consumer singleserve coffee system that prepares onecup servings of espresso, regular coffee, tea, hot chocolate and various other hot drinks.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The total return of a stock to an investor capital gain plus dividends.
Turnover per outlet Turnover in a period divided by the average of opening and closing outlets.
Underlying basic EPS Underlying profit attributable to the parent shareholders divided by the basic weighted average number of ordinary shares.
Underlying operating profit Underlying operating profit is operating profit excluding the amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items before tax and interest.
Underlying profit before tax Underlying operating profit excluding exceptional interest and tax and the impact of the pension finance cost accounted for under IAS 19 R. Whitbread Shareholder information Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Glossary 171 Designed and produced with Pollitt & .
com Main photography by George Brooks Board photography by Edward Webb Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Pages 1 to 96 of this document is printed on Galerie Satin, a paper containing 15% recycled fibre and 85% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
Pages 97 to 172 of this document is printed on Horizon Offset, a paper containing fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
Whitbread Court Houghton Hall Business Park Porz Avenue Dunstable Bedfordshire LU5 5XE www.
