Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 93 WITAN WISDOM AND JUMP How to invest The Jump Child Trust Fund is, l ike the Junior ISA, a tax efficient savings vehicle with the same annual limits as the There is a variety of ways to invest in Witan Investment Junior ISA but the annual term is measured by the childs Trust plc.
Witans shares can be traded through any UK birthday.
Each child born in the UK from 1 September stockbroker and most share dealing services, including 2002 up to and including 2 January 2012 was eligible for online platforms that offer investment trusts including a CTF.
You can transfer existing CTFs to a Jump CTF or Alliance Trust Savings, Hargreaves Lansdown, Barclays directly into a Jump Junior ISA subject to a minimum Stockbrokers, Halifax Share Dealing Limited, Interactive transfer value of 1,000.
Witan is available for investment through two savings schemes managed by Witan The Jump Savings Plan offers g reater flexibility than the Investment Services Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings.
Junior ISA or CTF in terms of the limits, access and control Advisers who wish to purchase Witan shares for their of the investment.
It can also be opened by grandparents, clients can do so via a stockbroker, Witan Savings Schemes relatives and other family friends.
You can open a Jump or via a growing number of dedicated platforms including Savings Plan with a lump sum investment of 250 or Ascentric, Nucleus, Seven Investment Management and 50 per month or quarter.
Shareholders who hold their Transact.
investment via Jump are charged a single flat annual fee of 31.60 VAT.
Witan Wisdom NB: Given the flat rate annual fees for Wisdom and Jump, Shareholders who hold their investment via both the the cost is high for the minimum subscription levels to our Witan Wisdom Share Plan and ISA are charged a single plans and investors should consider carefully the suitability flat annual fee, which is 30 VAT until 5th April 2017 for them if they do not plan to add to the account.
There is no further charge other than government stamp duty, for regular savings or Brochures and applications for all of our products are dividend reinvestment.
Lump sum dealing will be charged available by calling 0800 082 81 80 or online via at a flat rate of 15 for each transaction.
If you would prefer to write to request further information, the address details can be found on Witan Wisdom offers two different savings wrappers: page 94.
To keep up to date on news and commentary from Witan Investment Trust plc please visit www.
The Witan Wisdom ISA is a stocks and shares ISA that com stayintouch to provide us with your email address.
enables investors to buy Witan shares within a tax efficient wrapper.
Investors have an annual ISA allowance of up to Witan Investment Trust plc is an equity investment.
Investors 15,240 for the 2016 17 tax year and 20,000 for the are reminded that past performance is not a guide to future 2017 18 tax year.
The minimum lump sum investment performance and the value of investments and the income with Witan Wisdom ISA is 2,000, with the regular savings from them may go down as well as up and investors may not minimum being 100 per month.
Investors can also get back the amount originally invested.
Please note that transfer existing ISAs to Witan Wisdom while retaining tax assumptions may change if the law changes, and the their tax efficient wrapper during and after transfer.
value of tax relief if any will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Investors should consult their own tax advisers The Witan Wisdom Share Plan is our straightforward, in order to understand any applicable tax consequences.
The minimum lump sum investment is 500, and the minimum regular contribution Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
Witan Investment Services Limited of 14 Queen Annes Gate, Accounts can also be held jointly, or designated to a child.
London SW1H 9AA is registered in England and Wales number 5272533.
Witan Investment Services Limited provides Jump Savings for children investment products and services and is authorised and Jump gives parents, grandparents and other adults the regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
We may record chance to invest in Witan on behalf of a child.
This flexible telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve savings plan has a minimum lump sum investment set at customer service.
250 and regular contributions can be made from 50 Subject to adjustment in line with the UK CPI inflation every 3 years per month or quarter.
Jump is available in three different compounded.
In accordance with this policy, an adjustment in line with wrappers: inflation has been applied to the Annual Management Fee AMF for Witan Wisdom shareholders with effect from 6th April 2017.
A further The Junior ISA is a tax efficient wrapper available to adjustment in line with inflation will be due with effect from 6th April children born before 1 September 2002 or after 3 January 2020.
For Jump shareholders, a further adjustment in line with inflation will be due with effect from 6th April 2018.
You can select to pay the 2012, or those who did not qualify for a Child Trust Fund AMF by direct debit thus avoiding the possibility of selling shares if CTF.
The account can only be opened by a parent the AMF cannot be recovered from cash held at the time of dividend though others can add to it.
It currently has an annual reinvestment.
subscription limit of 4,080 for the 2016 17 tax year and 4,128 for the 2017 18 t ax year.
You can open a Jump Junior ISA with a minimum lump sum investment of 250 or 50 per month or quarter.
Job No: 28442 Proof Event: 2 7 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
