56 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Report and the financial statements in accordance with integrity of the corporate and financial information applicable law and regulations.
included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial dissemination of financial statements may differ from statements for each financial year.
Under that law the legislation in other jurisdictions.
directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Responsibility statement Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European We confirm, to the best of our knowledge, that: Union EU and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and the financial statements, prepared in accordance have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial with International Financial Reporting Standards as statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the company law the directors must not approve the financial assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss statements unless they are satisfied that they give a of the Company and the undertakings included in the true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company consolidation taken as a whole: and and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings properly select and apply accounting policies: included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description on pages 18 to 20 of the present information, including accounting policies, in principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: We also confirm that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide additional disclosures when compliance with provide the information necessary for shareholders to the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to assess the Companys position, performance, business enable users to understand the impact of particular model and strategy.
transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: By order of the Board and make an assessment of the Companys ability to H M Henderson A L C Bell continue as a going concern.
Chairman Chief Executive 9 March 2017 9 March 2017 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Note to those who access this document by electronic means The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 has been approved by the Board of Witan Investment Trust plc.
Copies of the Annual Report and the Half Year Report are circulated to shareholders, to those who hold shares through Witan Investment Services Limiteds savings schemes and, where possible, to investors through other providers products and nominee companies or written notification is sent when they are published online.
It is also made available in electronic format for the convenience of readers.
Printed copies are available from the Companys Registered Office in London.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
