Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 121 Information at your fingertips Strategic report Financial statements Chairmans statement 2 Independent auditors report 47 Our business model 4 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 55 Chief Executives statement 6 Consolidated balance sheet 56 Our six priorities 8 Shareholder information Customer Corporate Consolidated cash flow statement 57 Chief Financial Officers review 10 Other relevant shareholder information is Consolidated statement of changes in equity 58 Relationships 14 available, for example share price history, Our website, www.
com, allows you Our corporate website, General information 59 dividends, financial calendar and AGM minutes.
Risk 17 to shop online, search hundreds of inspirational www.
com, is a oneNotes to the Group financial statements 60 Corporate Responsibility 20 Electronic communications recipes for the food we make, move and stop portal that exists for the benefit of our Company balance sheet 98 Electronic communications eComms is the sell, and even find ideas for popular eventinvestors, the public and the media.
This site has Company statement of changes in equity 99 fastest and most environmentally friendly way Governance themed activities.
the following sections: Company accounting policies 100 to communicate with our shareholders.
com deliveries currently service 56% About Morrisons Notes to the Company financial statements 103 You will find information about the Group, Instead of receiving paper copies of the Directors remuneration report 33 of Great Britain: a postcode checker enables annual and interim financial results, notices of you to see if you are eligible for our home its operations, strategy and structure, and past Directors report 44 Investor information financial information.
shareholder meetings and other shareholder delivery service.
Five year summary 116 documents, you will receive an email to let Jobs Supplementary information 118 At Morrisons.
com you can: you know this information is available on Career opportunities and information Buy over 18,000 Morrisons grocery products our website.
Investor relations and financial calendar 119 about working for Morrisons.
For our Information at your fingertips 121 Benefit from competitive one-off dedicated recruitment website, go to Visiting our website to obtain our results delivery charges reduces our environmental impact by saving www.
jobs on paper and also reduces our print and Purchase a monthly, weekly or annual Media centre distribution costs.
delivery pass for flat-fee unlimited delivery Latest releases about the growing estate Check out latest promotions and of Morrisons, along with promotions and Sign up to eComms on our website at product news.
com and follow the investor eComms link.
Review selected offline-only products Corporate responsibility Here you can find out about our corporate Sign up for our latest offers by email responsibility ethos, including how we Find recipes based on our ingredients and take good care of our environment, inspired by our campaigns events society and how we go about business.
Learn about our produce and its journey www.
co. uk cr from field to fork Investors Read content on healthy eating, reducing Presentations, announcements and financial food waste and our support for reports can be quickly and easily downloaded various causes or viewed on-screen as PDFs.
You can You can also sign up to and manage your easily navigate around the Annual report Match & More account on our website.
and financial statements 2015 16 on-screen, In our dedicated area, you can find out viewing only the parts you want to, at what our loyalty card scheme has to offer, www.
com check your points balance and make changes annual-report-2016 to preferences.
Webcasts Not all products are available online.
However, Webcasts of the Directors delivering the the website is an excellent vehicle for raising preliminary results for 2015 16 on 10 March 2016 awareness and interest of the things we offer.
You are also able to preview selected items from ranges such as Nutmeg and Market Street, and our new caf offers, in-store services, award wins, pharmacies, glass hire, flower shops and new store openings online.
We also provide an online Store Finder where you can find details of your nearest store, Designed & Produced by Printing by opening times and services.
Geoff Neal Group Radley Yeldar Throughout the Directors report and Strategic report: Paper stock: This report is printed ry.
com 1 Unless otherwise stated, 2015 16 refers to the 52 week period ended 31 January 2016 and 2014 15 refers to the 52 week on Amadeus Offset uncoated, period ended 1 February 2015.
2015 and 2016 refer to calendar years.
2 Underlying profit is defined as profit before impairment, provision for onerous contracts and other items that do not relate to the Groups principal activities on a 100% recycled paper.
Amadeus Photography by an ongoing basis, profit loss arising on disposal and exit of properties and sale of businesses and IAS 19 pension interest, Offset is manufactured to the certified at a normalised tax rate, as reconciled in note 1.4 of the Group financial statements.
Underlying operating profit is Richard Moran environmental management system operating profit before impairment, provision for onerous contracts and other items that do not relate to the Groups principal activities and profit loss arising on disposal and exit of properties and sale of businesses.
3 Like-for-like LFL ISO 14001. sales reflects the percentage change in year-on-year store sales excluding VAT and fuel, stripping out the impact of new store openings and closures in the current or previous financial year.
indd 4-6 13 04 2016 17:02 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Hilmore House, Gain Lane Bradford BD3 7DL Telephone: 0845 611 5000 Visit our website: www.
