Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 69 2 Taxation continued 2.3 Deferred tax continued The movements in deferred tax liabilities assets during the period are shown below: Other Property, short term plant and temporary equipment Pensions differences Total m m m m Current period At 2 February 2015 428 8 5 415 Credited charged to profit for the period 36 6 5 37 Charged to other comprehensive income and equity 47 4 51 At 31 January 2016 392 33 4 429 Prior period At 3 February 2014 456 2 24 430 Credited charged to loss for the period 28 21 7 Credited to other comprehensive income and equity 6 2 8 At 1 February 2015 428 8 5 415 The analysis of net deferred tax liabilities are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Net deferred tax liabilities to be settled after more than 12 months 427 358 Net deferred tax liabilities to be settled within 12 months 2 57 429 415 3 Operating assets 3.1 Accounting policies Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indicators that it may be impaired.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units that will benefit from the synergies of the business combination for the purpose of impairment testing.
Brands Brands acquired through a business combination are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date and amortised to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic life.
During the prior year the Group disposed of 15m of fully written down brands relating to Kiddicare.
Software development costs Costs that are directly attributable to the creation of identifiable software, which meet the development asset recognition criteria as laid out in IAS 38 Intangible assets are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include consultancy costs, the employment costs of internal software developers, and borrowing costs.
All other software development and maintenance costs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Software development assets are held at historic cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment, and are amortised over their estimated useful lives 3 to 10 years on a straight-line basis.
Licences Separately acquired pharmaceutical licences and software licences are recognised at historic cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Those acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Pharmaceutical licences and software licences are amortised over their useful lives 3 to 10 years on a straight-line basis or over the life of the licence if shorter.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Financial statements 70 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 31 January 2016 3 Operating assets continued 3.1 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include directly attributable costs such as borrowing costs and employment costs of those people directly working on the construction and installation of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation rates Depreciation rates used to write off cost less residual value on a straight-line basis are: Freehold land 0% Freehold buildings 2.5% Leasehold land Over the lease period Leasehold buildings Over the shorter of lease period and 2.5% Plant, equipment, fixtures and vehicles 10% to 33% Assets under construction 0% Depreciation expense is primarily charged in cost of sales with an immaterial amount in administration expenses.
Investment property Property held to earn rental income is classified as investment property and is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
The depreciation policy is consistent with that described for property above.
Non-current assets classified as held-for-sale Non-current assets are classified as held-for-sale if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction, rather than continuing use within the Group, and the sale is considered highly probable.
The sale is expected to complete within one year from the date of classification and the assets are available for sale in their current condition.
Non-current assets held-for-sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal and are not depreciated.
Lessor accounting operating leases Assets acquired and made available to third parties under operating leases are recorded as property, plant and equipment or investment property and are depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.
Operating lease income is credited on a straight-line basis to the date of the next rent review.
Finance leases Assets funded through finance leases are capitalised as property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful economic life or lease term, whichever is shorter.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair value and the present value, calculated using the interest rate implicit in the lease, of the future minimum lease payments.
The obligations to pay future rentals are included within liabilities.
Rental payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the outstanding obligation so as to produce a constant rate of finance charge on the remaining balance.
Impairment of non-financial assets Intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as goodwill, and those in construction that are not yet being amortised, are tested for impairment annually.
Other non-financial assets are tested if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Testing is performed at the level of a cash generating unit CGU in order to compare the CGUs recoverable amount against its carrying value.
An impaired CGU is written down to its recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use or its fair value less costs to dispose.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
The Group considers that each of its stores is a CGU, which together form a grocery group of CGUs supported by corporate assets such as head office and vertically integrated suppliers.
Impairment losses are reversed if there is evidence of an increase in the recoverable amount of a previously impaired asset, but only to the extent that the recoverable amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Impairment losses relating to goodwill are not reversed.
Any reversal of impairment losses would be excluded from underlying earnings.
