Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 31 External audit tender CCR activities in 2015 16 Nomination Committees activities in 2015 16 As noted in last years Annual report, the Board The Committees focus in this financial year was appointed PwC as external auditor in June 2014. a review of: Selection process The Company confirms that it has complied The Nomination Committee is responsible for cyber and IT security risk: with the provisions of the Competition and succession planning and the recommendation health and safety incidents and actions taken Markets Authoritys Order in respect of The of Director appointments to the Board.
and progress of health and safety initiatives: Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies The Committee considers the size and energy strategy and carbon Market Investigation Mandatory Use of composition of the Board on an ongoing basis.
reduction measures: Competitive Tender Processes and Audit The Committee will consider the skills of Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 ethical trading: outgoing and remaining Board members to statement of compliance.
redistribution of food waste: assess any gaps and develop a candidate profile.
The Board uses external search consultancies food safety and improvements: Corporate Compliance and to source suitable candidates.
The Committee food integrity and testing: Responsibility CCR Committee recommend appointments on merit against Groceries Supply Code of Practice the criteria applied in developing the candidate 1,4 MEMBERS compliance including training and results profile and taking into account the mix of skills, of internal reviews: and experience and diversity on the Board.
Neil Davidson Chair, Andrew Higginson, David Potts, Irwin Lee, Belinda Richards, Paula Vennells, non-financial whistle-blowing reports.
Appointment of Chief Executive Officer and 2 Rooney Anand, Mark Amsden, Andrew Clappen, Non-Executive Directors 3 Darren Blackhurst Following the decision to search for a new CEO, Remuneration Committee report the Committee discussed and approved a job KEY OBJECTIVES The report from the Remuneration Committee role.
For selection of both the CEO and NonDevelopment and implementation of the Groups is contained in the Directors remuneration Executive Directors, the Company appointed policies on corporate compliance and corporate report on pages 33 to 43.
Ridgeway Partners to assist in identifying a long responsibility.
Reviewing and ensuring compliance list of candidates with the requisite skills and with these policies and ethical and governance experience for the role.
Nomination Committee report independent with no other connections to RESPONSIBILITIES 1 the Group.
MEMBERS Oversight that the business is doing the right thing Andrew Higginson, Irwin Lee, Belinda Richards, After an extensive and international search, four in areas of corporate responsibility, including: Neil Davidson, Rooney Anand, Paula Vennells candidates were shortlisted and interviewed food safety: by the Board, resulting in the appointment of KEY OBJECTIVES health and safety: David Potts who joined the Board as CEO on Advice to the Board on Board and senior 16 March 2015. ethical trading: management appointments and succession planning: monitoring of the composition of the environmental and competition compliance: The Board used the same rigorous approach to Board and its Committees.
recommend potential Non-Executive Directors Groceries Supply Code of Practice: for the Boards approval.
RESPONSIBILITIES governance and reputation: and Evaluating the current and required mixture Induction Morrisons Foundation.
of skills and experience on the Board: and All Directors are provided with a comprehensive, Generally ensuring that the Company is acting Sourcing and selecting candidates.
formal and tailored induction to the business.
1 The Committee membership changed through the year as per The programme is designed to provide 1 The Committee membership changed through the year as per the attendance at meetings table on page 26. the attendance at meetings table on page 26. the joining Director with a comprehensive 2 Andrew Clappen Group Corporate Services Director was introduction to the business and included appointed to this Committee in September 2015. the following: 3 Darren Blackhurst was appointed to this Committee in September 2015. review of Board Committee minutes and 4 M artyn Jones stepped down from this Committee in October 2015. supporting papers for recent meetings: meeting with the Company Secretary to provide a briefing on Board Committee processes and procedures and governance structure: store and other site visits: and meetings with senior management.
