Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Financial statements 102 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company accounting policies continued 52 weeks ended 31 January 2016 11 Company financial statements continued 11.3 Summary of accounting policies continued The following accounting policies are those policies which are specific, and which deal with items considered material, in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
All other equity instruments are held for long term investment and are measured at fair value, where the fair value can be measured reliably.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value are presented in the profit and loss account within finance income or expenses in the period they arise.
Where the fair value of the instruments cannot be measured reliably, for example, when there is variability in the range of estimates, the investments are recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses or reversals of previous impairment losses are presented in the profit and loss account in the period they arise.
Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only on the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events outside the Companys control, or present obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation or the amount cannot be measured reliably.
The Company does not recognise contingent liabilities but does disclose any such balances see note 11.22.
The disclosure includes an estimate of their potential financial effect and any uncertainties relating to the amount or timing of any outflow, unless the possibility of settlement is remote.
Financial guarantees Where the Company enters into financial contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
11.4 Profit and loss account The profit after tax for the Company for the 52 week period ended 31 January 2016 was 91m 52 weeks ended 1 February 2015: restated profit after tax of 1,031m.
For a reconciliation of the impact of FRS 101 on the 2015 profit after tax see note 11.19.
The Companys auditor,  LLP charged 0.4m 2015: 0.4m for audit services in the year, nil 2015: nil for services related to taxation and 0.4m 2015: 0.3m for other services.
During the period the Company disposed of its subsidiary Wm Morrison Convenience Stores Limited and associated assets to MLCG Limited.
For further disclosure see note 4.5.
11.5 Share-based payments The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
The fair value of the share-based award is calculated at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
This is based on the Companys estimate of share options that will eventually vest.
This takes into account movement of non-market conditions, being service conditions and financial performance, if relevant.
The fair value of share options is measured by use of a binomial stochastic model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The charge in the period for share-based payments was 11m 2015: 11m.
Further details of the Companys share schemes are disclosed in note 9, including: a a description of the type of share-based payment arrangements that existed during the reporting period, including general terms and conditions, maximum terms of options granted, and the method of entitlement: b weighted average share price information in respect of options exercised during the reporting period: and c the range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at the end of the reporting period.
