Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 61 1 Performance in the period continued 1.1 Accounting policies continued In order to provide users of the accounts with greater understanding in this area, additional income statement and balance sheet disclosure is provided in notes 1.6, 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 to the financial statements.
Other operating income Other operating income primarily consists of income not directly related to in-store and online grocery retailing and mainly comprises rental income from investment properties and income generated from recycling of packaging.
Profit loss on disposal and exit of properties Profit loss from the disposal and exit of properties includes gains and losses on disposal of property assets and other costs incurred by the Group following a decision to dispose, close or no longer purchase properties.
Where the Group disposes of a property, this disposal transaction is accounted for upon unconditional exchange of contracts.
Gains and losses are determined by comparing sale proceeds with the assets carrying amount and are presented net of costs associated with disposal.
1.2 Revenue analysis Like-for-like 2016 2015 sales Other Total Total m m m m Sale of goods in stores and online 12,631 180 12,811 12,999 Fuel 3,109 15 3,124 3,576 Total store-based and online sales 15,740 195 15,935 16,575 Other sales 187 187 241 Total revenue 15,740 382 16,122 16,816 1.3 Segmental reporting The Groups principal activity is that of retailing, derived solely from the UK.
The Group is not reliant on any major customer for 1% or more of revenues.
The Group is required to determine and present its operating segments based on the way in which financial information is organised and reported to the chief operating decision-maker CODM.
The CODM has been identified as the Executive Committee as they make the key operating decisions of the Group and are responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance.
The Executive Committee has replaced the previous Management Board and the information received by, and the accountability of, the Executive Committee is consistent with the previous Management Board.
Key internal reports received by the CODM, primarily the management accounts, focus on the performance of the Group as a whole.
The operations of all elements of the business are driven by the retail sales environment and hence have fundamentally the same economic characteristics.
All operational decisions made are focused on the performance and growth of the retail outlets and the ability of the business to meet the supply demands of the stores.
The Group has considered the overriding core principles of IFRS 8 Operating segments as well as its internal reporting framework, management and operating structure.
In particular, the Group considered its retail outlets, the fuel sale operation, the manufacturing entities and online operations.
The Directors conclusion is that the Group has one operating segment, that of retailing.
Reconciliations of reportable segment revenues, profit or loss, assets and liabilities and other material items Performance is measured by the CODM based on underlying profit before tax as reported in the management accounts.
Management believes that this underlying profit measure is the most relevant in evaluating the results of the Group.
This information and the reconciliation to the statutory position can be found in note 1.4.
In addition, the management accounts present a Group balance sheet containing assets and liabilities.
This balance sheet is included in the Consolidated balance sheet.
