Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 67 2 Taxation The focus of the Groups approach to tax affairs is to ensure compliance with the relevant laws of the territories in which the Group operates.
Almost all of the Groups stores and sales are in the UK, therefore the majority of taxes are paid in the UK.
The Group takes a compliance-focused approach to its tax affairs, and has a transparent relationship with the UK and overseas tax authorities and interacts with HMRC on a regular basis.
The Groups tax policy provides a governance framework with all related risks and stakeholder interests taken into consideration.
The tax policy is approved by the Board, with updates on tax compliance and governance matters being provided to the Audit Committee.
The Group operates a small number of branches and subsidiary companies outside of the UK based in the following overseas jurisdictions: The Netherlands: The Group has operations in the Netherlands as part of its produce supply chain.
Local corporation taxes of 1.0m were paid during 2016 2015: 1.9m : Hong Kong: Offices in Hong Kong were established in 2011 and source many of the Groups non-food products.
Local corporation taxes of 0.3m were paid during 2016 2015: 0.4m : and Isle of Man, Jersey and Guernsey: The Groups insurance company is based in the Isle of Man for regulatory reasons, and property assets with a net book value of 38m are held in Jersey and Guernsey as a result of historic acquisitions.
All profits in each of these jurisdictions are subject to UK tax.
2.1 Accounting policies Current tax The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws in effect during the period and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Taxable profit differs from the reported profit for the period as it is adjusted both for items that will never be taxable or deductible, and temporary differences.
Current tax is charged to profit or loss for the period, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case the current tax is reflected in other comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method.
Provision is made for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
No deferred tax is recognised for temporary differences that arise on the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of assets and liabilities that are not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profits.
Deferred tax is calculated based on tax law that is enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date and provided at rates expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to profit for the period except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is reflected in other comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets recognised are reviewed at each reporting date as judgement is required to estimate the availability of future taxable income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where amounts will be settled on a net basis as there is a legally enforceable right to offset.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates of the probable outcome of tax compliance issues.
All accruals are included in current liabilities.
1 Analysis of credit in the period 2016 2015 m m Current tax UK corporation tax 35 71 overseas tax 5 4 adjustments in respect of prior periods 8 99 32 24 Deferred tax origination and reversal of timing differences 15 1 adjustments in respect of prior periods 8 8 impact of change in tax rate 44 37 7 Tax credit for the period 5 31
