Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 85 6 Capital and borrowings continued 6.8 Operating leases lessee The Group has outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights, and fall due as follows: 2016 2015 Vehicles, plant Vehicles, plant Property and equipment Property and equipment m m m m Within one year 119 15 108 15 More than one year and less than five years 451 25 411 28 After five years 1,854 1,520 2,424 40 2,039 43 The movement in the property lease commitments within one year is summarised below: m At 2 February 2015 108 Impact of disposals 1 Leases on new stores 3 New lease commitments 9 At 31 January 2016 119 New lease commitments relate to the commencement of leases for previously provided pipeline stores.
7 Financial risk and hedging 7.1 Accounting policies Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivatives are transacted to mitigate financial risks that arise as a result of the Groups operating activities and funding arrangements.
At the inception of a hedge, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The Group assesses whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item at inception and it also assesses whether the hedge has been and will continue to be effective on an ongoing basis.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are also measured at fair value at each reporting date.
Derivatives with positive fair values are recognised as assets and those with negative fair values as liabilities.
They are also categorised as current or non-current according to the maturity of each derivative.
All gains or losses arising due to changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in profit or loss except when the derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting.
Cash flow hedges The Group designates derivatives into a cash flow hedge where they have been transacted to hedge a highly probable forecast transaction or a particular risk associated with an asset or liability.
The effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivatives, that are designated into cash flow hedge relationships, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Cumulative gains or losses on derivatives are reclassified from other comprehensive income into profit or loss in the period when the transaction occurs.
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is immediately recognised in profit or loss.
Fair value hedge The Group designates derivatives into a fair value hedge relationship when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or a firm commitment.
The change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in profit or loss for the period as well as the gain or loss from changes in the fair value of the derivative.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Financial statements 86 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 31 January 2016 7 Financial risk and hedging continued 7.2 Financial risk management The Group has a centralised treasury function which manages funding, liquidity and other financial risk in accordance with the Board approved treasury policy.
The objective of the policy and controls that are established are to mitigate the risk of an adverse impact on the performance of the Group as a result of its exposure to financial risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
It is the Groups policy not to engage in speculative trading of financial instruments.
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for treasury activity and is involved in key decision making.
A Treasury Committee is established to provide governance and oversight to treasury activity within delegated authority limits and formally reports to the Audit Committee.
Foreign currency risk The majority of purchases made by the Group are denominated in sterling, however some trade purchases are made in other currencies, primarily the euro and US dollar.
The Groups objective is to reduce short term profit volatility from exchange rate fluctuations.
It is Group policy that a minimum of 80% of committed and highly probable exposures within the next six months are hedged and at least 40% of exposures in the following six months.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had hedged 81% of its exposure within the next six months 2015: 84%.
Cross-currency interest rate swaps are used to mitigate the Groups currency exposure arising from payments of interest and principal in relation to foreign currency funding, including the US dollar private placement USPP loan notes and the euro denominated bond.
At the reporting date, the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change 10% in the US dollar and euro exchange rates would equate to a 5m post tax profit or loss exposure in relation to the euro and 4m in relation to the US dollar, for the unhedged forecast foreign currency exposures over the next 12 months.
A weakening of the pound sterling by 10% against the euro and US dollar exchange rates would impact on other comprehensive income by 16m.
Liquidity risk The Group policy is to maintain an appropriate maturity profile across its borrowings and a sufficient level of committed headroom to meet obligations.
The Group finances its operations using a diversified range of funding providers including banks and bondholders.
A central cash forecast is maintained by the treasury function who monitor the availability of liquidity to meet business requirements and any unexpected variances.
The treasury function seek to centralise surplus cash balances to minimise the level of gross debt.
Short term cash balances, together with undrawn committed facilities, enable the Group to manage its day to day liquidity risk.
Any short term surplus is invested in accordance with Treasury Policy.
The Treasury Committee compares the committed liquidity available to the Group against the forecast requirements including policy headroom.
This policy includes a planning assumption that supply chain finance facilities are not available.
Interest rate risk The Group seeks to protect itself against adverse movements in interest rates by maintaining at least 60% of its total borrowings at fixed interest rates.
As at the balance sheet date 91% 2015: 79% of the Groups borrowings are at fixed rate.
Whilst still applying the policy described above, from time-to-time the Group enters into fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to achieve the appropriate proportion of fixed versus floating rate borrowings.
Credit risk As a retailer, the majority of the Groups revenue is received in cash at the point of sale and therefore credit risk is not considered significant to the Group.
Some credit risk does arise from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banking groups and exposures from other sources of income such as commercial income and tenants of investment properties.
The Group has established appropriate credit verification procedures in respect of financial institutions.
Limits on the total exposure to any counterparty or Group of connected counterparties are established within Treasury Policy taking into account credit ratings.
Compliance with limits is regularly monitored.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Commodity price risk The Group manages the risks associated with the purchase of electricity, gas and diesel consumed by its activities excluding fuel purchased for resale to customers by entering into hedging contracts to fix prices for expected consumption.
The Group has adopted a capital at risk model for hedging its fuel and power consumption.
The Treasury Committee reviews the Groups exposure to commodity prices and ensures it remains within policy limits.
A change of 10 % in the market value of the commodity price at the balance sheet date would affect other comprehensive income by 8m 2015: 9m.
Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 87 7 Financial risk and hedging continued 7.3 Derivative financial assets and liabilities 2016 2015 Derivative financial assets m m Current Foreign exchange forward contracts 12 6 12 6 Non-current Cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps 30 30 All derivatives are categorised as level 2 instruments.
Level 2 fair values for simple, over-the-counter derivatives are calculated by using benchmark, observable market interest rates to discount future cash flows.
2016 2015 Derivative financial liabilities m m Current Foreign exchange forward contracts 6 Fuel and energy price contracts 17 12 17 18 Non-current Cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps 46 45 Energy price contracts 9 5 55 50 2016 2015 m m 1 year 1 5 years 5 years 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Maturity analysis of derivatives m m m m m m Derivatives settled on a gross basis Cross-currency swaps cash flow hedges Outflow 25 694 203 25 80 823 Inflow 20 613 223 19 77 756 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges Outflow 3 11 16 3 11 18 Inflow 7 28 39 7 28 46 Forward contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 184 215 Inflow 194 210 Derivatives settled on a net basis Energy price contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 18 8 12 4 7.4 Hedging activities The amounts disclosed in the table above are the contractual undiscounted derivative cash flows and therefore differ to those in the balance sheet.
Cash flow hedges At 31 January 2016 and 1 February 2015, the Group held US dollar and euro cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges.
The notional principal amount of the outstanding cross-currency swaps at 31 January 2016 was $250m 2015: $250m and 700m 2015: 700m.
The energy price contracts and foreign currency derivatives shown in note 7.3 are designated as cash flow hedges.
Fair value hedges The valuation of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps designated in fair value hedges are 21m 2015: 31m.
