Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 45 registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company Additional shareholder information of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information Additional information for shareholders is required by the required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK law.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company a fully paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way is required to disclose certain additional information.
Such disclosures, which the Financial Conduct Authority regards as preventing dealings in which are not covered elsewhere in this report, include the following the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or paragraphs.
The disclosures set out below are in some cases a summary proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of of the relevant provisions of the Companys Articles of Association a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not and the relevant full provisions can be found in the Articles which aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
other than certain restrictions that may from time-to-time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Appointment and powers of Directors The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The Directors have the power to appoint a Director during the year, but any person so appointed must be put Other disclosures up for appointment at the next AGM.
The Company is not party to any significant arrangements which take Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law, and to effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such direction as may be given by the Company in general meeting by following a takeover bid.
special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the The Company does not have any employee share schemes where the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are not shares to which the scheme relates have rights with regard to the control required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
of the Company which are not exercisable by employees.
Articles of Association Equal opportunities for all The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special Integral to a high performing culture is the concept of equal opportunity resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
for all colleagues, which we offer regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, gender including gender reassignment, marital or civil Share capital partnership status, disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, The authorised and called-up share capital of the Company, together age or trade union membership.
with details of shares allotted and cancelled during the year, are shown This includes applications for employment made by people with disabilities, in note 6.5 of the Group financial statements.
which are given full and fair consideration.
Respect underpins our behaviour At the AGM of the Company held in June 2012, a special resolution was towards all disabled candidates, as well as colleagues who have a disability passed to renew the authority given at the AGM held in June 2011 for the or become disabled in any way during the course of their employment.
purchase by the Company of up to 248,797,066 ordinary shares representing A full assessment of the individuals needs is undertaken and we will make approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital at that time.
reasonable adjustments to the work environment or practices in order During the period, 70,480 2015: 41,962 ordinary shares were issued to to help people with disabilities.
employees exercising share options, along with a further nil 2015: nil out All candidates and colleagues are treated equally in respect of recruitment, of the Groups treasury shares and 3,118,702 2015: 3,031,234 out of the promotion, training, pay and other employment policies and conditions.
The decisions we make are based on relevant merits and abilities.
Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Health and safety policy Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company It is the Groups intention, so far as is reasonably practicable, to ensure may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to the health, safety and welfare of all its employees, customers and visitors dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from to its premises.
In order to achieve this, a comprehensive health and time-to-time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any safety manual is in place for each division of the Company and subsidiary such determination, as the Directors may determine.
Each health and safety manual contains At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on the policy and procedures for complying with the Health and Safety at a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share held.
The notice Work Act 1974, including the provision, based on risk assessment, of safe of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either working practices for all work activities across the Group.
The Groups by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at health and safety policy is approved by the Executive Committee.
The Group has adopted the national targets set by the Health and Safety No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend Commission for the reduction of workplace accidents and work-related or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting, or to exercise ill health, and is on course to meet or exceed these targets.
Health and any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person safety performance is monitored to ensure continuous improvement with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the in all areas.
Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power By order of the Board to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and they or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
Mark Amsden Company Secretary The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of 9 March 2016 those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be
