Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 59 General information Company information Basis of consolidation Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC is a public limited company incorporated Subsidiaries including partnerships are all entities over which the Group in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Registration has control.
The Group controls an entity when it has power over an number 358949.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and entity, is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement its registered address is Hilmore House, Gain Lane, Bradford, BD3 7DL, with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its United Kingdom.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated Basis of preparation from the date the control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the consolidation are prepared for the same reporting period The financial statements have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended as the parent Company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
31 January 2016 2015: 52 weeks ended 1 February 2015 in accordance Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated Financial Reporting Standards Interpretation Committee IFRS IC on consolidation.
interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under As described in note 4.5 the Group disposed of its investment in IFRS.
IFRS and IFRS IC interpretations are issued by the International Wm Morrison Convenience Stores Limited on 26 October 2015.
Accounting Standards Board the IASB and must be adopted into This subsidiary has been deconsolidated from that date.
European Union law, referred to as endorsement, before they become mandatory under the IAS Regulation.
Foreign currencies The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currency are nearest million, except in some instances, where it is deemed relevant to retranslated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Gains and disclose the amounts up to two decimal places.
They are drawn up on the losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for historical cost basis of accounting, except as disclosed in the accounting the period.
policies set out within these financial statements.
The Groups accounting policies have, unless otherwise stated, been Critical accounting judgements and estimates applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
The judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in these financial statements, and sources of estimation Accounting reference date uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in material adjustment The accounting period of the Group ends on the Sunday falling between to carrying amounts in the next financial year, are: 29 January and 4 February each year.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and onerous property commitments note 1.4, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 5.5 : New IFRS and amendments to IAS and interpretations Commercial income note 1.1, 1.6, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4 : The following amendments to standards are mandatory for the first time for the 52 weeks ended 31 January 2016: IT and intangible assets note 3.2 : and Stock note 5.1, 5.2.
IFRIC 21, Levies: These are also described within the Corporate governance report Improvements 2011-13: on pages 29 to 30.
Improvements 2010-12: and Amendment to IAS 19: Defined benefit plans: Employee contributions.
There are a number of standards and interpretations issued by the IASB that are effective for financial statements after this reporting period, including IFRS 9 Financial instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, both of which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, and IFRS 16 Leases which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group is in the process of assessing the impact that the application of these standards and interpretations will have on the Groups financial statements.
