Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Financial statements 76 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 31 January 2016 4 Interests in other entities 4.1 Accounting policies Joint ventures The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
Investments Investments comprise investments in equity instruments held for long term investment.
They are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, where the fair value can be measured reliably.
Where the fair value of the instruments cannot be measured reliably, for example, when there is variability in the range of estimates, the investments are recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Business combinations The acquisition method is used to account for business combinations.
Consideration is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group, including the fair value of any contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Goodwill is the excess of consideration transferred, plus any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree, over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
In the event that this excess is negative the difference is recognised directly in profit for the period.
Disposal of subsidiaries When the Group ceases to have control over a subsidiary, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
4.2 Joint ventures The Group and Ocado Group plc are sole investors in a company MHE JV Co, which owns the plant and equipment at the Dordon Customer Fulfilment Centre CFC.
Each party owns 50% of the equity of MHE JV Co and decisions regarding MHE JV Co require the unanimous consent of both parties.
The Directors have considered the impact of IFRS 11 Joint arrangements, applicable this financial year, and determined that the Group continues to jointly control MHE JV Co. 2016 2015 MHE JV Co m m Current assets 7 24 Non-current assets 125 117 Current liabilities 7 5 Net assets 125 136 Groups share of net assets 63 68 Profit 4 4 Groups share of profit 2 2 4.3 Investments 2016 2015 m m Equity investments at cost 31 31 The equity investments held for long term investment represents the Groups 10% stake in Fresh Direct Inc, a US internet grocer.
The investment was made on 9 March 2011, and at that point, the Group made available to Fresh Direct a $15m 8% unsecured seven year loan facility.
The facility is undrawn at the balance sheet date.
