Notes to the Company financial statements Year ended 31 July 2016 Share capital 1 Corporate information The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares, which are Wolseley plc the Company was incorporated and registered in classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue Jersey on 28 September 2010 under the Jersey Companies Law as a of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the publiccompany limited by shares under the name Wolseley plc with proceeds, net of tax.
The principal legislation under which the Where the Company or one of the Companys trusts purchases the Company operates is the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended, Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any and regulations made thereunder.
The address of its registered ofce directly attributable incremental costs net of tax, is deducted from equity is 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA, Channel Islands.
It is attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, headquartered in Switzerland.
Where such shares are subsequently disposed The principal activity of the Company is to act as the ultimate holding or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable company of the Wolseley Group of companies.
incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
2 Company accounting policies Share-based payments Basis of accounting Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Companys executive share option, long term incentive and share purchase and The Company meets the denition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 ordinary share plans.
The Company recognises a compensation cost Financial Reporting Standard 100 issued by the Financial Reporting in respect of these plans that is based on the fair value of the awards, Council FRC.
Accordingly, in the year ended 31 July 2016 the Company measured using Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation methodologies.
has undergone transition from reporting under UK GAAP to FRS 101 For equity-settled plans, the fair value is determined at the date of grant as issued by the FRC.
The financial statements have been prepared in including the impact of non-vesting conditions such as requirement accordance with FRS 101 Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced for employees to save and is not subsequently remeasured unless the Disclosure Framework as issued by the FRC.
This transition is not conditions on which the award was granted are modied.
Generally, the considered to have had a material effect on the financial statements.
compensation cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting There was no impact on the prior year position as a result of the transition.
Adjustments are made to reect expected and actual forfeitures As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the during the vesting period due to thefailure to satisfy service conditions disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to shareorachieve non-market performance conditions.
based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a Dividends payable cash ow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Companys financial related party transactions.
statements in the period in which the dividends are paid or approved by The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis the shareholders of the Company.
and on the going concern basis.
Note 3 Operating costs on page 82, note 8 Dividends on page 85, note Tax 26 Share capital on page 99 and note 27 Share-based payments on Wolseley plc is taxed as a holding company in Switzerland so no tax is page 100 of the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements form part due at cantonal or communal level.
The tax charge is therefore made of these financial statements.
up of federal tax and capital tax.
Federal tax is levied on profits in the year subject to any participation exemption for qualifying dividends from Foreign currencies subsidiaries.
Capital tax is based on the value of the Companys assets, primarily its investment in Wolseley Limited and Wolseley Holdings The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the Switzerland AG.
functional currency of the Company.
The cost of the Companys investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings is translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date 3 Fixed asset investments of investment.
Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are translated Cost into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of the transactions.
m Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are At 1 August 2015 7,607 retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All currency translation differences are charged or credited to the profit Additions 338 andloss account.
At 31 July 2016 7,945 Investments in subsidiaries All of the above investments are in unlisted shares.
The Directors believe Fixed asset investments are recorded at cost less provision for impairment.
that the carrying value of the investments is supported by the recoverable The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether there amount of their underlying assets.
is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments The Companys direct holdings in subsidiary undertakings as at 31 July is impaired.
2016 were as follows: Cash at bank and in-hand Country of Percentage Cash at bank and in-hand includes cash in-hand and deposits held registration and Principal of ordinary with banks which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
Company operation activity shares held Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet to the extent there is no right of offset or intention to net Wolseley Limited England and Wales Investment 100% settle with cash balances.
Wolseley fide Puerto Commonwealth of Distributor 100% Rico, Inc. Puerto Rico of industrial products Wolseley Holdings Switzerland Investment 100% Switzerland AG Details of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company, including those that are held indirectly, are listed on pages 124 and 125 of the Wolseley plc Annual Report.
Wolseley plc 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information 4 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 11 Contingent liabilities Provision is made for the Directors best estimate of known claims and 2016 2015 legal actions in progress.
The Company takes legal advice as tothe m m likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action is Other debtors 2 1 unlikely to succeed or a sufciently reliable estimate of the potential Total 2 1 obligation cannot be made.
In addition, the Company has given certain banks and lenders authority to The fair value of amounts included in debtors approximates to book value.
transfer at any time any sum outstanding to its credit against or towards satisfaction of its liability to those banks of certain subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has also given indemnities and warranties to the purchasers 5 Creditors: amounts falling due within of businesses from the Company and certain Group companies in respect oneyear of which no material liabilities are expected to arise.
The Company acts as a guarantor for the Groups UK dened benefit 2016 2015 pension plan, which is disclosed in note 25 on pages 96 to 98 to the m m Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
Other creditors 3 1 Amounts owed to Group companies 647 373 12 Employees, employee costs and Total 650 374 auditorsremuneration The average number of employees of the Company in the year ended The fair value of amounts included in creditors approximates to book value.
Other employees of Group companies Amounts owed to Group companies are interest bearing, carry an interest were seconded or assigned to the Company in the period in order to full rate of 1.2 per cent 2015: 1.0 per cent and are payable on demand.
their duties or to carry out the work of the Company.
Each of the Non Executive Directors of the Company has an appointment letter with the Company, and the Executive Directors and certain other senior managers 6 Share capital of the Group have assignment letters in place with the Company.
Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 26 on page 99 Total employment costs of the Company for the period, including tothe Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
Non Executive Directors and seconded employees, were 2 million 2015: 1 million.
Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Companys financial 7 Share premium account statements are set out in note 3 on page 82 to the Wolseley plc Details of new share capital subscribed are set out in note 26 on page 99 consolidated financial statements.
to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
13 Dividends 8 Treasury shares Details of the Companys dividends are set out in note 8 on page 85 tothe During the year the Group completed a share buyback programme Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
Further details on Treasury shares are set out in note 26 on page 99 to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
14 Related party transactions The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 101 from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are 100 per cent owned by 9 Own shares reserve Wolseley plc.
During the year, the Company contributed 11 million 2015: 15 million of cash to its US Employee benefit Trust and 3 million 2015: nil to its Jersey Employee benefit Trust to purchase shares.
The Treasury 15 Post-balance sheet events shares held by both of these Trusts have been consolidated within the Details of post-balance sheet events are given in note 35 on page 105 Companys balance sheet as at 31 July 2016 and amount to 57 million ofthe Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
10 Share-based payments Details of share awards granted by Group companies to employees, and that remain outstanding over the Companys shares are set out in note 27 on page 100 to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
The net profit and loss charge to the Company for equity-settled sharebased payments was nil 2015: nil.
The Company charged the full amount incurred for equity-settled share-based payments of 20 million 2015: 20 million to its subsidiary undertakings.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 121
