Strategic report Governance Financials Other information How the Board operates Board decision-making The Board has a strong culture of open debate.
All Directors are actively encouraged to challenge existing assumptions and to raise challenging questions.
Certain strategic decisions and authorities of the Company are reserved as matters for the Board with other matters, responsibilities and authorities delegated to its Committees as detailed in the Wolseley governance structure opposite.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually in July, a summary of which can be found at www.
com together with the terms of reference of each ofthe Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Board and Committee Meetings Individual roles of the Board The Company is registered in Jersey and is tax resident Chairman Gareth Davis in Switzerland.
During the year, all meetings of the Board, Committees of the Board and all other meetings requiring Overall leadership and governance of the Board including induction, decisions of a strategic or substantive nature were held outside development and performance evaluation theUK.
Provides the Directors with insight of the views of the Companys Each Director is required to attend all meetings of the Board majorshareholders and Committees of which they are a member.
In addition, senior Promotes a culture of challenge and debate at Board and management from across the Group and advisers attend some of Committeemeetings the meetings for the discussion of specic items in greater depth.
The Board met regularly during the year, with Board and Committee meetings scheduled over one or two-day periods.
Details of Director attendance at Board and Committee meetings Group Chief Executive John Martin during the year may be found on page 43.
Effective leadership of the Company, implementing objectives and strategy agreed by the Board In order to provide the Board with greater visibility of the Groups operations, to provide further opportunities to meet senior Management and development of the Groups operations and management and to gain a deeper understanding of local market business models dynamics, the Board aims to visit at least one of the Groups business unit locations each year.
Maintaining good relationships and communications withshareholders Working closely with the Chief Financial officer to ensure prudent Board visit to the USA financial controls In July 2016, the Board and Committee meetings were held in Virginia, USA.
This provided an opportunity for the Board to visit Developing and implementing policies integral to improving the Fergusons recently opened National Sales Center and its new business, including in relation to health andsafetyand sustainability showroom facility in Newport News, Virginia.
During these visits, the Board met senior executives to discuss business strategy and operational performance.
The visits also enabled the Board to meet and talk to our staff based at these locations.
At the National Senior Independent Director Alan Murray Sales Center the Board saw how the business had centralised Available to investors and shareholders, where communications some of its previously branch-based sales activities to support through the Chairman or Executive Directors may not seem appropriate higher levels of customer service and greater efficiency in branch operations.
The showroom in Newport News is an operational A sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the otherDirectors when necessary showroom and a beta facility in which new product ranging, and product and customer service strategies, are developed and Chairs the Board in the absence of the Chairman tested before being rolled out to Fergusons nationwide showroom network.
The Board met with staff at the showroom to gain a Holds informal discussions with the Non Executive Directors, deeper understanding of how this channel is an important offering withandwithout the presence of the Chairman for both trade customers and consumers.
The Boards priorities for 2016 17 The Boards priorities for the year will be to: Support the new Group Chief Executive and the Interim GroupFinancial officer in their new roles Regularly review and monitor the Groups progress against its strategy, including the strategic priorities set out on pages 4 and 5 Ensure there is excellent execution of major operational initiatives Continue to focus on Board and senior executive succession plans, and on talent development in the regions Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Leadership continued What has the Board done during the year?
The Board has a rolling agenda programme which ensures that items relating to strategy, finance, operations, health and safety, corporate governance and compliance are covered in itsmeetings.
Standing agenda items are discussed at each Board meeting and other items are included on the agenda at relevant times throughout the year.
Key areas of Board activity during the year are detailed below.
Strategy Standing agenda items: Review of strategic initiatives Periodic items: Board Strategy day Budget Governance Performance Standing agenda items: Standing agenda items: Board Committee reports Group Chief Executive report Group Legal and Company Chief Financial officer report The Secretariat report Periodic items: Board Periodic items: Financial results Succession planning and talent review Mergers and Acquisitions Board effectiveness Regional business reviews Corporate Governance review Post-investment reviews Health and safety Insurance review Property, pensions and tax reviews Risk management, Sustainability and Product Integrity Investor feedback An overview of the Boards 2015 16 objectives and how the Board has achieved these objectives is set out below: 2015 16 objectives Achievements Strategy For more information on our strategy seepages 4 and 5 Annual strategy review.
Annual Board strategy day held Individual business strategies reviewed during the year.
Regularly review and monitor the Rolling agenda for reviewing major strategic programmes Groups progress against its strategic Detailed reviews undertaken of progress made with initiatives such as customer service, objectives, with particular focus on e-commerce and sales management, in addition to receiving business-specic updates driving growth organically through from the Groups major businesses and post-investment reviews of completed acquisitions the development of new business Board visit to USA.
For more details see page 45 models and selective bolt-on The Board reviewed acquisition opportunities and 16 were completed during the year.
Forfurther details of acquisitions see the Group Chief Executives overview on page 5 and note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
People For more information on succession planning see page 54 Regular review including maintaining Board succession planning reviewed in detail by the Board and the the appropriate balance and depth NominationsCommittee of skills both at Board and Executive Detailed reports received by the Board on people strategy and succession planning Committee level and within the generally in December 2015 and May 2016 management teams in all regions.
The Board had the opportunity to meet with US executives on the visit to the Groups businesses in the USA, details of which can be found on page 45.
Wolseley plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
