NOTICE OF MEETING The following information to be discussed at the forthcoming AGM is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you should seek advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary shares in the Company, you should pass this document, together with any other accompanying documents including the form of proxy, at once to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM Notice is hereby given that the second AGM of Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc the 'Company' will be held at Modern Art Oxford, 30 Pembroke St, Oxford, OX1 1BP on 12 June 2017 at 11am to transact the business set out in the resolutions below.
Resolutions 1 to 11, 15 and 16 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: this means that for each of those ordinary resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour.
Resolutions 12 to 14 will be proposed as special resolutions: this means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour.
To receive the Companys annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 together with the strategic report, Directors reports and the auditors report on those financial statements.
To approve the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 51 to 53 of the Companys Annual Report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
To re-elect Susan Searle as a Director.
To re-elect Scott Brown as a Director.
To elect Carolan Dobson as a Director 6.
To re-elect Steven Harris as a Director.
To elect Alan Hodson as a Director.
To re-elect Dame Pamela Louise Makin as a Director.
To re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next meeting at which financial statements are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Board to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
THAT, in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 'Act', the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot ordinary shares in the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 827,000, representing approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this Notice, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2018, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make offers or agreements which would or might require ordinary shares to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot ordinary shares in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
90 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 91 12.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11, and in accordance with Sections 570 and 573 of the Act, the Directors be and are hereby generally empowered to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on the Directors by Resolution 11 and to sell ordinary shares from treasury for cash, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 827,000 being 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the date of this Notice, such power to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2018 unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such power, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require ordinary shares to be allotted or sold from treasury after the expiry of such power and the Directors may allot or sell ordinary shares from treasury in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such power had not expired.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company, provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 123,967,300 representing 14.99 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue at the date of this Notice : b the minimum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for each ordinary share is 1p: c t he maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to the higher of: i 1 05 per cent of the average of the mid-market values of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made: and ii t he amount stipulated by Article 5 6 of the Market Abuse Regulation being the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share.
This authority shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2018 unless previously revoked, varied, renewed or extended by the Company in general meeting save that the Company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
THAT a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
THAT the proposed amendment to the Company's investment policy, as set out in Appendix 1 on page 95, be and is hereby approved.
THAT the Company be authorised, subject to and in accordance with the provision of the Act, to send, convey, or supply all types of notices, documents or information to shareholders by electronic means, including making such notices, documents or information available on a website.
By order of the Board Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary 20 April 2017 1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London EC3A 7NH 90 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 91 IMPORTANT NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF MEETING The following notes explain your general rights as a shareholder and your right to attend and vote at this AGM or to appoint someone else to vote on your behalf.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders entered on the Companys register of members at 11am on 10 June 2017 or, if the meeting is adjourned, on the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the Companys register of members after 11am on 10 June 2017 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
The doors will open at 11am and you may wish to arrive by 10:45am so you can register and take your seat in good time.
Light refreshments will be provided at the meeting.
If you have any special needs or require wheelchair access to the venue, please contact the company secretary by telephone on 01392 477500 in advance of the meeting.
Mobile phones may not be used in the meeting hall, and cameras and recording equipment are not allowed in the meeting hall.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or part of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the AGM.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A form of proxy which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Notice.
To appoint more than one proxy, members will need to complete a separate form of proxy in relation to each appointment you may photocopy the proxy form.
If you do not have a form of proxy and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact our Registrar, Capita Asset Services, on 0871 664 0300 or from outside the UK: 44 371 664 0300.
Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone company's access charge.
Lines are open between 09:00 - 17:30, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales 4.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first named being the most senior.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 3, 4 and 8 does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
Your proxy will vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the AGM.
To be valid, any form of proxy or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand only at the Companys Registrar, Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU or in accordance with the address shown on the form of proxy or in the case of shares held through CREST, via the CREST system, see note 11 below.
In each case, for proxy appointments to be valid, they must be received by no later than 11am on 8 June 2017 being 48 hours prior to the time of the meeting, not including non-working days.
If you return more than one proxy appointment, either by paper or electronic communication, that received last by the Registrar before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
You are advised to read the terms and conditions of use carefully.
92 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 93 9.
The return of a completed form of proxy, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in note 12 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
A member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote on a show of hands and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he she is the holder.
The termination of the authority of a person to act as proxy must be notified to the Company in writing.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM and any adjournment of the AGM by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available from www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 11am on 8 June 2017 being 48 hours prior to the time of the meeting, not including non-working days.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST application host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that no more than one corporate representative exercises powers in relation to the same shares.
To be able to attend and vote at the meeting, corporate representatives will be required to produce prior to their entry to the meeting evidence satisfactory to the Company of their appointment.
As at 19 April 2017 being the last practicable business day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital was 827,000,000 carrying one vote per share.
No shares are held in treasury.
Under Section 527 of the Act, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
92 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 93 16.
Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company on any business day until the time of the AGM and may also be inspected at the AGM venue from 11am on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the AGM: c opies of the Directors letters of appointment: and a c opy of the Articles of Association of the Company.
You may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Section 311A of the Act, can be found on the Companys section of Woodford Investment Management Limiteds website at www.
94 94 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 95 95 APPENDIX 1 Proposed changes to investment objective and policy The proposed new investment objective and policy for the Company, portfolio is diversified across a number of sectors and, while there as proposed in resolution 15 on page 91 of this report, are set out are no specific limits placed on exposure to any one sector, the below.
Changes to the existing investment objective and investment Company will at all times invest and manage the portfolio in a manner policy are marked in blackline.
consistent with spreading investment risk.
Investment objective Investment restrictions The Companys investment objective is to achieve long-term capital The Company is subject to the following investment restrictions: growth through investing in a diversified portfolio consisting investment in unquoted companies will be limited to 60 80 per predominantly of with a focus on UK companies, both quoted and cent of net asset value at the time of investment: unquoted.
As these companies evolve, the geographical profile of the portfolio may also change to become more global in nature for investment in non-UK Companies will be limited to 30 per cent.
reasons such as an overseas listing or as the result of changes to the of Net Asset Value at the time of investment: capital value of a non-UK company.
the Companys portfolio shall be invested in a minimum of 40 The Company will aim to deliver a return in excess of 10 per cent per holdings: annum over the longer term.
the Company shall not invest more than 10 per cent of its net asset This is a target only, not a profit forecast, and there can be no value at the time of initial investment in an investee company save assurance that it will be met.
that the Portfolio Manager may make further investments into an investee company subject to an aggregate investment limit in any Investment policy investee company of 15 20 per cent of net asset value at the time Asset allocation and risk diversification of investment: The Company invests in a diversified portfolio consisting the Company may invest in other investment funds, including listed predominantly of with a focus on UK Companies companies either closed-ended investment funds, to gain investment exposure, but incorporated in the UK or traded on a UK exchange, both quoted such investment will be unleveraged and other than in relation to and unquoted.
As these companies evolve, the geographical profile investment in money market funds for the purposes of cash of the portfolio may also change to become more global in nature management limited, in aggregate, to 10 per cent of net asset value for reasons such as an overseas listing or as the result of changes to at the time of investment: and the capital value of a non-UK company.
with respect to cash deposits, the Company shall not have The Company invests in: exposure of more than 10 per cent of net asset value, at the time of investment, to any one issuer.
early-stage companies, which are likely to include both quoted and unquoted companies: and Borrowing The Company does not intend to deploy long-term gearing but may mid and large-capitalisation listed quoted, mature companies.
: employ gearing of up to 20 per cent of net asset value, calculated at Early-Growth Companies, which are typically quoted although the time of borrowing, for the purpose of capital flexibility, including may be unquoted companies: and for investment purposes.
The Board will oversee the level of gearing in the Company, and will Early-Stage Companies, which are likely to include both quoted review the position with the Portfolio Manager on a regular basis.
To acknowledge the Companys evolving structure, the Companys Hedging portfolio is generally expected to reflect the following asset allocation: The Company may use derivatives for the purposes of hedging any currency risk to which the Company may be subject but will between 15 and 30 per cent invested in mid and large-capitalisation not use derivatives for investment purposes.
listed, mature companies: Cash management between 15 and 30 per cent invested in Early-Growth While it is intended that the Company will be fully invested in normal Companies: and market conditions, the Company may hold cash on deposit or invest between 40 and 70 per cent invested in Early-Stage Companies.
on a temporary basis in a range of debt securities and cash equivalent instruments.
There is no restriction on the amount of however, the The actual portfolio composition at any one time cash or cash equivalent instruments that the Company may hold and will reflect the opportunities available to the Portfolio Manager, there may be times when it is appropriate for the Company to have a the performance of the underlying investee companies and the significant cash position instead of being fully or near fully invested.
The Companys portfolio will typically consist of 50-100 holdings.
The Company may become a significant shareholder in any of the underlying portfolio companies.
The Companys portfolio is constructed on the basis of an assessment of the fundamental value of individual securities and will not be structured on the basis of sector weightings.
The Companys 94 94 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 95 95 APPENDIX 2 Company Name Oxford Nanopore Company Position in Top 10 2 % of NAV at 31 Dec 16 7.69% Industry Sector Health Care Geography UK Date of investment 24 07 15 Cost of investment 52,078,920 Valuation at 31 Dec 16 60,143,811 Basis of Valuation Price of Recent Investment Ownership % Undiluted 4.80% Ownership % Diluted 4.50% Income recognised Turnover 746,000 Pre-tax profits -43,668,000 Latest Accounts Date 31 12 15 Company Name Immunocore Company Position in Top 10 3 % of NAV at 31 Dec 16 5.60% Industry Sector Health Care Geography UK Date of investment 16 07 15 Cost of investment 35,325,346 Valuation at 31 Dec 16 43,817,100 Basis of Valuation Price of Recent Investment Ownership % Undiluted 6.70% Ownership % Diluted 6.60% Income recognised Turnover 14,305,000 Pre-tax profits 17,997,000 Latest Accounts Date 31 12 15 96 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 97 Company Name Proton Partners Company Position in Top 10 5 % of NAV at 31 Dec 16 4.41% Industry Sector Health Care Geography UK Date of investment 08 06 15 Cost of investment 30,000,000 Valuation at 31 Dec 16 34,500,000 Basis of Valuation Price of Recent Investment Ownership % Undiluted 28.0% Ownership % Diluted 28.0% Income recognised Turnover Pre-tax profits -2,960,000 Latest Accounts Date 29 02 16 Company Name Oxford Sciences Innovation Company Position in Top 10 9 % of NAV at 31 Dec 16 3.53% Industry Sector Financials Geography UK Date of investment 01 05 15 Cost of investment 23,000,000 Valuation at 31 Dec 16 27,600,000 Basis of Valuation Price of Recent Investment Ownership % Undiluted 4.34% Ownership % Diluted 4.34% Income recognised Turnover 45,000 Pre-tax profits -131,000 Latest Accounts Date 31 12 15 96 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 97 Woodford Investment Management Ltd, authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Registered office is 9400 Garsington Road, Oxford OX4 2HN.
