ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGEMENT DIRECTIVE DISCLOSURE Report on remuneration The AIFMD requires certain disclosures to be made with regard to the remuneration policy of the Companys AIFM.
Details of the Capita Financial Managers Limited CFML AIFM remuneration policy are disclosed on the website at www.
co. uk and have applied to CFML since 1 January 2015, being the beginning of the first financial year of CFML following its authorisation as an AIFM.
Quantitative remuneration disclosure In accordance with FUND 3.3.
5 5 and FCA Finalised guidance General guidance on the AIFM Remuneration Code SYSC 19B the Guidelines, dated January 2014, the total amount of remuneration paid by the AIFM, for the financial year ended 31 December 2016, in respect of the Woodford Patient Capital Trust was 55,768.
The AIFM does not consider that any member of staff of the AIFM has the ability to materially impact the risk profile of the Company.
It should be noted that CFML has delegated portfolio management to Woodford Investment Management Limited by way of a portfolio management agreement and CFML is satisfied that Woodford is subject to the regulatory requirements that are equally as effective as those applicable under the Guidelines.
Other disclosures The AIFMD requires that the AIFM ensures that certain other matters are actioned and or reported to investors, each of these is set out below.
Provision and content of an annual report FUND 3.3.
5 The publication of the Annual Report and financial statements of the company satisfies these requirements.
Material change of information The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to investors in the Alternative Investment Fund AIF before they invest and requires that material changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of each AIF.
There have been no changes.
6 There are no assets subject to special arrangements due to their illiquid nature, nor new arrangements for the managing of the liquidity of the Company.
There is no change to the arrangements, as set out in the Prospectus, for managing the AIFs liquidity.
The current risk profile of the AIF is set out in the annual report Principal risks and uncertainties and in further detail in Note 21 Risk management policies and procedures.
The AIF is permitted to be leveraged and the below table below sets out the current maximum permitted and actual leverage.
As a percentage of net asset value Gross Commitment method method Maximum level of leverage 320.00% 120.00% Leverage as at 31 December 2016 141.82% 102.76% There have been no breaches of the permitted leverage limits within the reporting period, nor any changes to maximum level of leverage employed by the AIF.
Other matters CFML can confirm that required reporting to the FCA has been undertaken in accordance with FUND 3.4.
88 88 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 89 89 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 88 88 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 89 89
