Forward-looking statements Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts isforwardlooking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forwardlooking statements.
Forward-looking statements cover all matters which are not historical facts and include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, discussions of expected future revenues, nancing plans, expected expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes in market conditions and pressures on margins, changes in the level oflitigation, employee motivation, the performance and resilience ofthe Companys systems and infrastructure, the level ofgovernment regulation and financial risks such as uctuations inexchange and interest rates.
Forward-looking statements can be identied by the use of forward-looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only attheir respective dates.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules, the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded inaccordance with such laws.
Wolseley plc 130 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Credits Printing Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar Printed by Pureprint Group.
The printing inks are made with non-hazardous www.
com vegetable oil from renewable sources.
Over 90 per cent of solvents and developers are recycled for further use and recycling initiatives are in place Location photography: Andy Wilson forallother waste associated with this production.
Pureprint Group is FSC with Board photography: George Brooks strict procedures in place to safeguard the environment through all processes.
The greenhouse gas emissions from the production and distribution of Paper this Annual Report and Accounts have been neutralised through The Gold This report is printed on Amadeus 50 Silk paper and cover Standard Basa Magogo offsetting project in South Africa.
board, with Amadeus 100 offset used inthe financial section.
Amadeus 50 Silk is made from 25 per cent fide-inked postThe first Gold Standard project of its kind in the world, this innovative behaviourconsumer waste, 25 per centunprinted pre-consumer change programme teaches local communities in South Africa to burn coal wasteand 50 per centvirgin bre.
differently in order to be more fuel efficient, thereby reducing carbon emissions.
The technique, called Basa Magogo, means Light it up!
Grandmother in Amadeus 100 offset is made from 100 per cent fide-inked Zulu.
In addition to the emission reductions, the Basa Magogo technique also postconsumer waste.
Both products arefully biodegradable improves visibility and reduces health risks by producing less smoke.
and recyclable and produced inmillswhich hold IS0 9001 andISO 14001 accreditation.
Wolseley plc Registered Ofce 26 New Street St Helier Jersey JE2 3RA Channel Islands Registration No.
106605 Jersey Corporate Headquarters Grafenauweg 10 CH-6301 Zug Switzerland Telephone 41 0 41 723 2230 Fax 41 0 41 723 2231 www.
com Follow us on Twitter @wolseleyplc
