How we comply Other statutory information Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping proper in respect of the preparation of accounting records, which disclose with reasonable financial statements accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps The directors are responsible for preparing the financial for the prevention and detection of fraud and other statements in accordance with applicable law and irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors regulations.
The directors have elected to prepare financial report and directors compensation report.
statements for the Group in accordance with International The directors are responsible for the maintenance Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European and integrity of the Company website.
Jersey legislation Union IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial and UK regulation governing the preparation and statements for the Company in accordance with UK dissemination of financial statements differs from accounting standards.
Company law requires the directors legislation in other jurisdictions.
to prepare such financial statements in accordance with The directors confirm that so far as they are aware, the Companies Jersey Law 1991. there is no relevant audit information of which the International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has financial statements present fairly for each financial year taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken, the Companys financial position, financial performance as a director, in order to make himself or herself aware and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of any relevant audit information and to establish that of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the Governance Code, the Board has established arrangements International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for to evaluate whether the information presented in the the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be these are described on page 177. achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors The Board considers the Annual Report and financial are also required to: statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and properly select and apply accounting policies: understandable and provides the information necessary present information, including accounting policies, for share owners to assess the Companys position, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable performance, business model and strategy.
and understandable information: The letters from the chairmen of the Nomination provide additional disclosures, when compliance with and Governance, Audit and Compensation Committees, the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable the statements regarding directors responsibilities and users to understand the impact of particular transactions, statement of going concern set out above and the directors other events and conditions on the entitys financial remuneration and interests in the share capital of the position and financial performance: and Company set out on pages 121 to 158, are included in make an assessment of the Companys ability to the Directors report, which also includes the sections continue as a going concern.
Strategic report to share owners, What we think and Who runs WPP.
By Order of the Board: Marie Capes Company Secretary 19 April 2017 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 175 Accounting policies he consolidated financial statements of WPP plc and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 have been prepared in T T accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Groups financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to the same accounting date.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of during the period are included or excluded from the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or disposal.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 177 Our 2016 financial statements Accounting policies Goodwill and other intangible assets Contingent consideration Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired Contingent consideration is accounted for in accordance separable corporate brand names, acquired customer with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Contingent relationships, acquired proprietary tools and capitalised consideration only applies to situations where contingent computer software not integral to a related item payments are not dependent on future employment of of hardware.
vendors and any such payments are expensed when they Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed relate to future employment.
to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of over the fair value of the underlying net assets, including contingent consideration earnout agreements are initially intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
recorded at fair value which is the present value of the Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually expected cash outflows of the obligations.
The obligations or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances are dependent on the future financial performance of the indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of interests acquired typically over a fourto five-year period goodwill is compared to the net present value of future cash following the year of acquisition and assume the operating flows derived from the underlying assets using a projection companies improve profits in line with directors estimates.
period of up to five years for each cash-generating unit.
After The directors derive their estimates from internal business the projection period a steady growth rate representing an plans together with financial due diligence performed in appropriate long-term growth rate for the industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense Subsequent adjustments to the fair value are recorded and is not subsequently reversed.
in the consolidated income statement within revaluation Corporate brand names, customer relationships and of financial instruments.
proprietary tools acquired as part of acquisitions of businesses are capitalised separately from goodwill as intangible assets if their value can be measured reliably Property, plant and equipment on initial recognition and it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less will flow to the Group.
accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
to have an indefinite economic life because of the The Group assesses the carrying value of its property, plant institutional nature of the corporate brand names, their and equipment to determine if any impairment has occurred.
proven ability to maintain market leadership and profitable Where this indicates that an asset may be impaired, the operations over long periods of time and the Groups Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of commitment to develop and enhance their value.
The Assets in assessing the carrying amount of the asset.
This carrying value of these intangible assets is reviewed at least process includes comparing its recoverable amount with its annually for impairment and adjusted to the recoverable carrying value.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated amount if required.
to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write asset on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a as follows: straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years.
Brand names with finite lives 10-20 years.
Leasehold land and buildings over the term Customer-related intangibles 3-10 years.
of the lease or life of the asset, if shorter.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-10 years.
Other including capitalised computer software Computer equipment 3-5 years.
178 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Our 2016 financial statements Accounting policies Interests in associates and joint ventures Trade receivables An associate is an entity over which the Group has Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and significant influence.
In certain circumstances, significant doubtful debts.
influence may be represented by factors other than ownership and voting rights, such as representation on the Board of Directors.
Foreign currency and interest rate hedging The Groups share of the profits less losses of associate undertakings net of tax, interest and non-controlling The Groups policy on interest rate and foreign exchange interests is included in the consolidated income statement rate management sets out the instruments and methods and the Groups share of net assets is shown within interests available to hedge interest and currency risk exposures in associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups and the control procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
share of the profits less losses and net assets is based on The Group uses derivative financial instruments to current information produced by the undertakings, adjusted reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative The Group assesses the carrying value of its associate financial instruments for speculative purposes.
undertakings to determine if any impairment has occurred.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at Where this indicates that an investment may be impaired, the date a derivative contract is entered into and are the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance the carrying amount of the investment.
This process includes sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and The Group accounts for joint venture investments under effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing the equity method which is consistent with the Groups of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature treatment of associates.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument Other investments and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Other investments are designated as available for sale Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an and are shown at fair value with any movements in fair ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging value taken to equity.
instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly On disposal the cumulative gain or loss previously effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows recognised in equity is included in the profit or loss for the year.
Note 25 contains details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Inventory and work in progress Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss Work in progress is valued at cost, which includes outlays immediately, together with any changes in the fair value incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete The effective portion of changes in the fair value of assignments.
Provision is made for irrecoverable costs derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow where appropriate.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net investment hedges is deferred in equity.
The gain and net realisable value.
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 179 Our 2016 financial statements Accounting policies are transferred from equity and included in the initial Convertible debt measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging Convertible debt is assessed according to the substance of instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, the contractual arrangements and is classified into liability or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, and equity elements on the basis of the initial fair value of any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument the liability element.
The difference between this figure and recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast the cash received is classified as equity.
If a hedged transaction is no longer The consolidated income statement charge for the expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss finance cost is spread evenly over the term of the convertible recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss debt so that at redemption the liability equals the for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related Other debt to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported Other interest-bearing debt is recorded at the proceeds in the consolidated income statement.
received, net of direct issue costs.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements Borrowing costs Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the consolidated to require the Group to purchase a non-controlling interest income statement over the term of those borrowings.
are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet initially at the present value of the redemption amount in accordance Revenue recognition with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and subsequently measured at fair value in accordance with IAS Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in respect 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Direct costs include fees paid to external The movement in the fair value is recognised as income or suppliers where they are retained to perform part or all of expense within revaluation of financial instruments in the a specific project for a client and the resulting expenditure consolidated income statement.
is directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue is stated exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
Derecognition of financial liabilities In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, a financial liability of the Group is only released to the consolidated income statement when the underlying legal obligation is extinguished.
180 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Our 2016 financial statements Accounting policies Advertising and Media Investment Management Data Investment Management Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service placements and fees for advertising services.
Revenue may performed for market research contracts is based on consist of various arrangements involving commissions, proportional performance.
In assessing contract fees, incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
as agreed upon with each client.
Costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, in performance.
The primary input of all work performed accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
under these arrangements is labour.
As a result of the The amount of revenue recognised depends on whether we relationship between labour and cost, there is normally act as an agent or as a principal in an arrangement with a a direct relationship between costs incurred and the client.
Where we act as an agent, the revenue recorded is the proportion of the contract performed to date.
Costs net amount retained when the fee or commission is earned.
incurred as a proportion of expected total costs is used Although the Group may bear credit risk in respect of these as an initial proportional performance measure.
This activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that indicative proportional performance measure is we consider that we are acting as an agent on their behalf.
subsequently validated against other more subjective In such cases, costs incurred with external suppliers such criteria i. e. relevant output measures such as the as media suppliers are excluded from our revenue.
Where percentage of interviews completed, percentage of reports the Group acts as a principal and contracts directly with delivered to a client and the achievement of any project suppliers for media payments and production costs, the milestones stipulated in the contract.
In the event of revenue recorded is the gross amount billed.
divergence between the objective and more subjective Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both measures, the more subjective measures take precedence quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element related since these are output measures.
to quantitative targets, revenue is recognised when the While most of the studies provided in connection quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element with the Groups market research contracts are undertaken related to qualitative targets, revenue is recognised when in response to an individual clients or group of clients the incentive is received or receivable.
specifications, in certain instances a study may be The Group receives volume rebates from certain developed as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to suppliers for transactions entered into on behalf of clients a broad client base.
For these transactions, revenue is that, based on the terms of the relevant contracts and local recognised when the product is delivered.
Where the law, are either remitted to clients or retained by the Group.
terms of transaction provide for licensing the product If amounts are passed on to clients they are recorded as on a subscription basis, revenue is recognised over the liabilities until settled or, if retained by the Group, are subscription period on a straight-line basis or, if applicable, recorded as revenue when earned.
Substantially all services are provided on a fixed price basis.
Pricing may also include a provision for a surcharge where the actual labour hours incurred in completing a project are significantly above the labour hours quoted in the project proposal.
In instances where this occurs, the surcharge will be included in the total revenue base on which to measure proportional performance when the actual threshold is reached provided that collectability is reasonably assured.
