Our 2016 financial statements Accounting policies Public Relations & Public Affairs and Branding Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts Communications of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability to be performed subject to specific agreement.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all recognised when the service is performed, in accordance taxable temporary differences unless specifically excepted with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Revenue is by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is charged or recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome can credited in the consolidated income statement, except be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the when it relates to items charged or credited to other consolidated income statement revenue and related costs comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case as contract activity progresses.
the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be Taxation available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, which can require the use of accounting Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at current estimation and the exercise of judgement.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference currently payable and deferred tax.
arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or other The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number assets and liabilities other than in a business combination of different jurisdictions and judgement is required in in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor determining the appropriate provision for transactions the accounting profit.
where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
In such The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed circumstances, the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it taxes based on the best information available and where is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be the anticipated liability is both probable and estimable, available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
liabilities are classified as current.
Any interest and penalties Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable accrued are included in corporate income taxes both in the temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
Where and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the final outcome of such matters differs from the amount the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary recorded, any differences may impact the income tax and difference and it is probable that the temporary difference deferred tax provisions in the period in which the final will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there The tax laws that apply to the Groups subsidiaries may is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets be amended by the relevant tax authorities.
Such potential against current tax liabilities and when they relate to amendments are regularly monitored and adjustments are income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the made to the Groups tax liabilities and deferred tax assets Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities and liabilities where necessary.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled in the consolidated income statement because it excludes or the asset is realised based on enacted or substantively items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible enacted legislation.
in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
182 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Our 2016 financial statements Accounting policies Retirement benefit costs Operating leases The Group accounts for retirement benefit costs in Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease For defined contribution plans, contributions are term.
Any premium or discount on the acquisition of a lease charged to the consolidated income statement as payable is spread over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis.
in respect of the accounting period.
For defined benefit plans the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs, past service Translation of foreign currencies costs, administrative expenses and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading of staff costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of the in the consolidated income statement when the related transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated plan amendment occurs.
Net interest expense is calculated in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the by applying the discount rate to the recognised overall year-end exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains and losses surplus or deficit in the plan.
are credited or charged to the consolidated income Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately statement as they arise.
in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The income statements of overseas subsidiary Where defined benefit plans are funded, the assets undertakings are translated into pounds sterling at of the plan are held separately from those of the Group, average exchange rates and the year-end net assets of these in separate independently managed funds.
Pension plan companies are translated at year-end exchange rates.
assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are Exchange differences arising from retranslation of the measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit opening net assets and on foreign currency borrowings method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of such operations are reported in the consolidated statement equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the and are updated at each balance sheet date.
acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and Recognition of a surplus in a defined benefit plan liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the is limited based on the economic gain the Company is closing rate.
expected to benefit from in the future by means of a refund or reduction in future contributions to the plan, in accordance with IAS 19.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments Finance leases including share options to certain employees and accounts for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of Payment.
Equity-settled share-based payments are the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower of their measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-marketfair value and the present value of the minimum lease based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the regarding the fair value of equity settled share-based consolidated income statement on the same basis as owned transactions are set out in notes 22 and 26. assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised and interest elements and the interest is charged to the in the consolidated income statement as an expense on a consolidated income statement as it is incurred.
straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non-marketbased vesting conditions.
