Our 2016 financial statements Accounting policies New IFRS accounting pronouncements Critical judgements and estimation uncertainty in applying accounting policies At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards, which have not been applied in Management is required to make key decisions and these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: judgements whilst acknowledging there is estimation IFRS 9: Financial Instruments: uncertainty in the process of applying the Groups IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers: and accounting policies.
The most significant areas where such IFRS 16: Leases judgements and estimation uncertainty apply are revenue With the exception of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, the Group recognition, goodwill and other intangibles, payments does not consider that these Standards will have a significant due to vendors earnout agreements, liabilities in respect impact on the financial statements of the Group except for of put option agreement with vendors, acquisition reserves, additional disclosures when the relevant standards come taxation and accounting for pension liabilities.
judgement has been applied or estimation uncertainty IFRS 15 is effective from 1 January 2018.
It provides for exists, the key factors taken into consideration are disclosed one of two methods of transition: retrospective application in the accounting policies and the appropriate note in these to each prior period presented or recognition of the financial statements.
cumulative effect of retrospective application of the new standard as of the beginning of the period of initial application.
We have not yet decided which transition Directors responsibility statement method we will use.
While we continue to assess the impacts of the standard, based on our initial assessment, we do not We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: expect the adoption of IFRS 15 to have a significant impact the financial statements, prepared in accordance with on the timing of the Groups revenue recognition.
We do the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true expect an acceleration of revenue recognition for certain and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position incentive-based revenues: however, incentive-based revenues and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings are not material to the Groups revenue.
In April 2016, the included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and IASB issued clarification guidance on principal versus agent the Strategic report includes a fair review of the considerations.
We are currently evaluating the impact development and performance of the business and the of the principal versus agent guidance on certain of our position of the Company and the undertakings included revenues and direct costs: however, we do not expect any in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with change to have a material effect on our results of operations.
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019.
eliminates the classification of leases as either operating or finance leases and introduces a single accounting model.
Lessees will be required to recognise a right-of-use asset Sir Martin Sorrell Paul Richardson and related lease liability for the majority of their operating Group chief executive Group finance director leases and show depreciation of leased assets and interest 19 April 2017 on lease liabilities separately in the income statement.
IFRS 16 will require the Group to recognise substantially all of its current operating lease commitments on the balance sheet and the financial impact of this, together with other implications of the standard, are currently being assessed.
In the current year, the following Standards and Interpretations became effective: IFRS 14: Regulatory Deferral Accounts: The adoption of these Standards and Interpretations has not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
