Our 2016 financial statements Independent auditors report In particular, we are required to consider whether we Scope of the audit of the financial have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge statements acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and understandable and whether the annual report and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to appropriately discloses those matters that we give reasonable assurance that the financial statements communicated to the Audit Committee which we are free from material misstatement, whether caused by consider should have been disclosed.
This includes an assessment of: whether We confirm that we have not identified any such the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups inconsistencies or misleading statements.
and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Respective responsibilities of directors by the directors: and the overall presentation of the and auditor financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation statements and to identify any information that is of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the and express an opinion on the financial statements in course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of accordance with applicable law and International Standards any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with we consider the implications for our report.
International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, Richard Muschamp understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP include our dedicated professional standards review team Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor and independent partner reviews.
London, United Kingdom This report is made solely to the companys members, 19 April 2017 as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
2 The calculation of headline measures of performance including headline EBITDA, headline PBIT, net sales margin and headline PBT is set out in note 31 of the financial statements.
3 Prior year balance sheets in 2014 and 2013 have been restated to reduce both the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, by a corresponding amount.
No restatement was required in 2012.
4 Prior year balance sheets in 2014, 2013 and 2012 have been restated to reclassify all income tax creditors from non-current liabilities to current liabilities.
5 Headline earnings per share for 2016, 2015 and 2014 is set out in note 9 of the financial statements.
6 Dividends per share represents the dividends declared in respect of each year.
The information on this page is unaudited.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 233 Our 2016 financial statements Financial glossary Term used in Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Allotted Issued ADRs ADSs American Depositary Receipts American Depositary Shares.
The Group uses the terms ADR and ADS interchangeably.
One ADR ADS represents five ordinary shares Average net debt and net debt Average net debt is calculated as the average daily net borrowings of the Group.
Net debt at a period end is calculated as the sum of the net borrowings of the Group, derived from the cash ledgers and accounts in the balance sheet Billings Billings comprise the gross amounts billed to clients in respect of commissionbased fee-based income together with the total of other fees earned Called-up share capital Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid Constant currency The Group uses US dollar-based, constant currency models to measure performance.
These are calculated by applying budgeted 2016 exchange rates to local currency reported results for the current and prior year.
This gives a US dollar-denominated income statement which exclude any variances attributable to foreign exchange rate movements ESOP Employee share ownership plan Estimated net new billings Net new billings represent the estimated annualised impact on billings of new business gained from both existing and new clients, net of existing client business lost.
The estimated impact is based upon initial assessments of the clients marketing budgets, which may not necessarily result in actual billings of the same amount EURIBOR The euro area inter-bank offered rate for euro deposits Finance lease Capital lease Free cash flow Free cash flow is calculated as headline operating profit before non-cash charges for share-based incentive plans, depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of other intangible assets, including dividends received from associates, interest received, investment income received, proceeds from the issue of shares, and proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment, less corporation and overseas tax paid, interest and similar charges paid, dividends paid to non-controlling interests in subsidiary undertakings, purchases of property, plant and equipment and purchases of other intangible assets Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Headline earnings Headline PBT less taxation excluding tax charge deferred tax relating to gains on disposals of investments and subsidiaries, deferred tax impact of the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and other goodwill items and tax charge credit relating to restructuring costs Headline EBITDA Profit before finance income costs and revaluation of financial instruments, taxation, investment gains losses and write-downs, goodwill impairment and other goodwill write-downs, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, IT asset write-downs, share of exceptional losses gains of associates, depreciation of property, plant and equipment, losses gains on remeasurement of equity interests arising from a change in scope of ownership and Group restructuring costs Headline operating profit PBIT excluding share of results of associates before investment gains losses and write-downs, goodwill impairment and other goodwill write-downs, amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, gains losses on remeasurement of equity interest on acquisition of controlling interest, IT asset write-downs and Group restructuring costs 234 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016
