Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Report and Accounts existing shareholders.
Special Resolution 11 will, if passed, The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March give the Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up 2016 will be presented to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
to 10% of the Companys existing share capital on These accounts accompany this Notice of Meeting and 14 June 2016, as if Section 551 of the Act does not apply.
This shareholders will be given an opportunity at the meeting to is the same nominal amount of share capital which the ask questions.
Directors are seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution 10.
This authority will also expire on the date of Resolutions 2 to 7 Re-election of Directors the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of Resolutions 2 to 7 deal with the election and re-election of 15 months, whichever is earlier.
This authority will not be each Director.
Biographies of each of the Directors can be used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
found on pages 23 and 24 of the annual report.
Under the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury The Board has confirmed, following a performance review, Shares Regulations 2003 as amended the Treasury Share that the Directors standing for election and re-election Regulations the Company is permitted to buy-back and continue to perform effectively.
hold shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for cash, rather than cancelling them.
The Treasury Share Resolution 8 Re-appointment of Auditors and the Regulations require such sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro determination of their remuneration rata, basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders Resolution 8 relates to the re-appointment of agree by special resolution to disapply such pre-emption  LLP as the Companys independent rights.
Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors power Auditors to hold office until the next AGM of the Company and to allot unissued share capital on a non pre-emptive basis also authorises the Audit Committee to set their pursuant to Resolution 11, Resolution 12, if passed, will give remuneration.
the Directors authority to sell shares held in treasury on a non pre-emptive basis.
No dividends may be paid on any Resolution 9 Remuneration Report shares held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to The Directors Remuneration Report is set out in full in the such shares.
The benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares annual report on pages 40 to 42. is that such shares may be resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in managing its share capital, and Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 Issue of Shares improve liquidity in its shares.
It is the intention of the Board Ordinary Resolution 10 in the Notice of AGM will renew the that any re-sale of treasury shares would only take place at a authority to allot the unissued share capital up to an narrower discount to the net asset value per share than that aggregate nominal amount of 1,175,623 equivalent to at which they had been bought into treasury, and in any event 4,702,494 shares, or 10% of the Companys existing issued at a discount no greater than 5% to the prevailing diluted share capital on 14 June 2016, being the nearest practicable cum income net asset value per share, and this is reflected in date prior to the signing of this Report.
Such authority will the text of Resolution 12.
It is also the intention of the Board expire on the date of the next AGM or after a period of that sales from treasury would only take place when the 15 months from the date of the passing of the resolution, Board believes that to do so would assist in the provision of whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority will have liquidity to the market.
The number of treasury shares which to be renewed at the next AGM.
may be sold pursuant to this authority is limited to 10% of the When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 551 of the Companys existing share capital on 14 June 2016 reduced Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that existing by any equity securities allotted for cash on a non-pro rata shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new basis pursuant to Resolution 11, as described above.
This shares must be offered first to such shareholders in authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the is earlier.
Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 78 4 Further Information Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions continued The Directors intend to use the authority given by Special Resolution 13 in the Notice of AGM will renew the Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 to allot shares and disapply authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99% of pre-emption rights only in circumstances where this will be Ordinary Shares in issue on 14 June 2016, being the nearest clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
The issue practicable date prior to the signing of this Report, proceeds would be available for investment in line with the amounting to 7,049,039 Ordinary Shares.
Such authority will Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be expire on the date of the next AGM or after a period of made which would effectively alter the control of the 15 months from the date of passing of the resolution, Company without the prior approval of shareholders in whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the authority general meeting.
will have to be renewed at the next AGM or earlier if the authority has been exhausted.
Resolution 13 Share Repurchases Resolution 14 General Meetings The Directors wish to renew the authority given by shareholders at the previous AGM.
The principal aim of a Special Resolution14 seeks shareholder approval for the share buy-back facility is to enhance shareholder value by Company to hold General Meetings other than the AGM at acquiring shares at a discount to net asset value, as and 14 working days notice.
The Board confirms that the shorter when the Directors consider this to be appropriate.
The notice period would only be used where it was merited by the purchase of Ordinary Shares, when they are trading at a purpose of the meeting.
discount to net asset value per share should result in an Recommendation increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining The Board considers that the resolutions relating to the shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be above items are in the best interests of shareholders as a exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the net whole.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends to asset value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it the shareholders that they vote in favour of the above is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM as the purchase of shares will be made within guidelines Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial established from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to holdings totalling 44,124 shares.
seek shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year at the AGM.
Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per Ordinary Share.
Existing shares which are purchased under this authority will either be cancelled or held as Treasury Shares.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 79 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016
