Corporate governance STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for keeping Directors statement pursuant to the the Annual Report and the Group and parent adequate accounting records that are sufficient Disclosure and Transparency Rules company financial statements in accordance to show and explain the parent companys Each of the Directors, whose names and with applicable law and regulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable functions are listed within theCorporate accuracy at any time the financial position of governance statement, confirm that, Company law requires the Directors to prepare the parent company and enable them to tothebest of theirknowledge: Group and parent company financial statements ensure that its financial statements comply for each financial year.
the Group financial statements, which with the Companies Act 2006.
They have have been prepared in accordance with Under that law they are required to prepare general responsibility for taking such steps IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true the Group financial statements in accordance asare reasonably open to them to safeguard and fair view of the assets, liabilities, with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the assets of the Group and to prevent and financial position and profit of the and applicable law and have elected to prepare detect fraud and other irregularities.
Group:and the parent company financial statements Under applicable law and regulations, the onthe same basis.
the Strategic report contained in the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Annual Report includes a fair review of Under company law the Directors must not Strategic report, Directors report, Directors thedevelopment and performance of the approve the financial statements unless they remuneration report and Corporate governance business and the position of the Group, are satisfied that they give a true and fair statement that comply with that law and together with a description of the principal view of the state of affairs of the Group and those regulations.
risks and uncertainties that it faces.
parent company and of their profit or loss The Directors are responsible for the forthat period.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate In preparing each of the Group and parent and financial information included on the company financial statements, the Directors Companys website.
Legislation in the UK are required to: governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from select suitable accounting policies and legislation in other jurisdictions.
then apply them consistently: Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, make judgements and estimates that the Directors consider that the Annual Report, arereasonable and prudent: taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and state whether they have been prepared understandable and provides the information inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted necessary for shareholders to assess the bythe European Union: and Companys performance, business model andstrategy.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|75
