Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 10.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings 2016 2015 m m Other guarantees and contingent liabilities 1,722 1,670 Other guarantees and contingent liabilities Other guarantees principally comprise the Companys guarantee of the Groups 50% share of an AUD 1.7 billion loan facility and a US$3.5 billion loan facility of its joint venture, Vodafone Hutchison Australia Pty Limited.
The Company will guarantee the debts and liabilities of certain of its UK subsidiaries at the balance sheet date in accordance with section 479C of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has assessed the probability of loss under these guarantees as remote.
As detailed in note 26 Post employment benefits to the consolidated financial statements, the Company is the sponsor of the Groups main defined benefit scheme in the UK, being the Vodafone UK Group Pension Scheme Vodafone UK plan.
The results, assets and liabilities associated with the Vodafone UK plan are recognised in the financial statements of Vodafone UK Limited and Vodafone Group Services Limited.
As detailed in note 30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has covenanted to provide security in favour of the trustee of the Vodafone Group UK Pension Scheme and the Trustees of THUS Plc Group Scheme.
Legal proceedings Details regarding certain legal actions which involve the Company are set out in note 30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements.
Other matters The auditors remuneration for the current year in respect of audit and audit-related services was 1.9 million 2015: 2.0 million and for non-audit services was 0.4 million 2015: 2.0 million.
The Directors are remunerated by the Company for their services to the Group as a whole.
No remuneration was paid to them specifically in respect of their services to Vodafone Group Plc for either year.
Full details of the Directors remuneration are disclosed in Directors remuneration on pages 57 to 73.
There were no employees other than Directors of the Company throughout the current or the preceding year.
