Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation The Company has transitioned from the previously extant UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP to Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced disclosure framework, FRS 101, for all periods presented.
The Company will continue to prepare its financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 on an ongoing basis until such time as it notifies shareholders of any change to its chosen accounting framework.
As required by FRS 101, Vodafone Group Plc notified its shareholders of the proposed change in its letter to shareholders in March 2016.
The Company financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities and in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
The following exemptions available under FRS 101 have been applied: a Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Shared-based payment details of the number and weighted-average exercise prices of share options, and how the fair value of goods or services received was determined : a IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: a Paragraph 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities : a Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements comparative information requirements in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1: a The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements: a 10 d statement of cash flows : a 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : a 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements : a 38B-D additional comparative information : a 40A-D requirements for a third statement of financial position : a 111 cash flow statement information : and a 134-136 capital management disclosures.
a IAS 7 Statement of cash flows: a Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective : a Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related party disclosures key management compensation : and a The requirements in IAS 24 Related party disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement of the Company is not presented in this Annual Report.
Theseseparate financial statements are not intended to give a true and fair view of the profit or loss or cash flows of the Company.
The Company hasnot published its individual cash flow statement as its liquidity, solvency and financial adaptability are dependent on the Group rather than its own cash flows.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of Company financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Company financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The key area of judgement that has the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements is the review for impairment of investment carrying values.
Significant accounting policies applied in the current reporting period that relate to the financial statements as a whole Foreign currencies The Companys financial statements are presented in sterling, which is its functional currency.
With effect from 1 April 2016 the functional currency of the Company changed from sterling to the euro and its presentation currency will also change from sterling to euro.
The euro is now the primary currency in which the Companys financing activities and investment returns are denominated.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional rate of currency prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the Companys functional currency at the rates prevailing on the reporting period date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the initial transaction dates.
Non-monetary items measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income statement for the period.
169 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued Borrowing costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws thathave been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting period date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that exist at the reporting period date and that result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax in the future.
The deferred tax is measured at the rate expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on the tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting period date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the Company financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferredtax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised on the Company statement of financial position when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Companys activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates which it manages using derivative financial instruments.
The use of derivative financial instruments is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of derivative financial instruments consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
Changes in values of all derivative financial instruments are included within the income statement unless designated in an effective cash flow hedge relationship when changes in value are deferred to other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The Company designates certain derivatives as hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency or interest rate risks of firm commitments cash flow hedges.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the Company chooses to end the hedgingrelationship.
Fair value hedges The Companys policy is to use derivative financial instruments primarily interest rate swaps to convert a proportion of its fixed rate debt to floating rates in order to hedge the interest rate risk arising, principally, from capital market borrowings.
The Company designates these as fair value hedges of interest rate risk with changes in fair value of the hedging instrument recognised in the income statement for the period together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to the hedged risk, to the extent the hedge is effective.
Gains and losses relating to any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedging is used by the Company to hedge certain exposures to variability in future cash flows.
The portion of gains or losses relating to changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income: gains or losses relating to any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, when the hedged transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or nonfinancial liability.
When the hedged item is recognised in the income statement, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity for the hedging instrument are reclassified to the income statement.
When hedge accounting is discontinued, any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement when the hedged transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Pensions The Company is the sponsoring employer of the Vodafone Group pension scheme, a defined benefit pension scheme.
There is insufficient information available to enable the scheme to be accounted for as a defined benefit scheme because the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Therefore, the Company has applied the guidance within IAS 19 to account for defined benefit schemes as if they were defined contribution schemes and recognise only the contribution payable each year.
The Company had no contributions payable for the years ended 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015.
New accounting pronouncements To the extent applicable the Company will adopt new accounting policies as set out in note 1 Basis for preparation in the consolidated financial statements.
