Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2016 Shareholder information Unaudited information Investor calendar Ex-dividend date for final dividend 9 June 2016 Record date for final dividend 10 June 2016 Trading update 22 July 2016 Annual general meeting 29 July 2016 Final dividend payment 3 August 2016 Half-year financial results 15 November 2016 1 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 24 November 2016 1 Record date for interim dividend 25 November 2016 1 Interim dividend payment 2 February 2017 Note: 1 Provisional dates.
Dividend tax allowance Dividends From April 2016 dividend tax credits will be replaced by an annual See pages 36 and 111 for details on dividend amount per share.
5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend income across an individuals Payment of dividends by direct credit entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals will pay tax in the We pay cash dividends directly to shareholders bank or building society UK on their dividend income at a rate dependent on their income tax accounts.
This ensures secure delivery and means dividend payments bracket and personal circumstances.
Vodafone will continue to provide are credited toshareholders bank or building society accounts registered shareholders with a confirmation of the dividends paid on the same day as payment.
A dividend confirmation covering and this should be included with any other dividend income received both the interim and final dividends paid during the financial year when calculating and reporting total dividend income received.
is sent to shareholders at the time of the interim dividend in February.
It is theshareholders responsibility to include all dividend income ADS holders may alternatively have their cash dividends paid by cheque.
Overseas dividend payments This change was announced by the Chancellor, as part of the Holders of ordinary shares resident in the Eurozone defined for UK Government Budget in July 2015.
If you have any tax queries, please this purpose as a country that has adopted the euro as its national contact a financial adviser.
currency automatically receive their dividends in euros.
The sterling euro exchange rate is determined by us in accordance with our Articles Managing your shares via Investor Centre of Association up to 13 business days before the payment date.
Computershare operates a portfolio service for investors in ordinary Holders resident outside the UK and Eurozone automatically receive shares, called Investor Centre.
This provides our shareholders with dividends in pounds sterling but may elect to receive dividends online access to information about their investments as well as a facility in localcurrency directly into their bank account by registering to help manage their holdings online, such as being able to: for ourregistrars Computershare Global Payments Service.
a update dividend mandate bank instructions and review dividend Visit investorcentre.
co. uk for details and terms and conditions.
payment history: Cash dividends to ADS holders will be paid by the ADS depositary a update member details and address changes: and in USdollars.
The sterling US dollar exchange rate for this purpose is determined by us up to ten New York and London business days a register to receive Company communications electronically.
Computershare also offers an internet and telephone share dealing For the financial year ending 31 March 2017 and beyond, dividends will service to existing shareholders.
be declared in euros and paid in euros, pounds sterling and US dollars, aligning the Groups shareholder returns with the primary currency The service can be obtained at investorcentre.
Shareholders with in which we generate free cash flow.
The foreign exchange rate at which any queries regarding their holding should contact Computershare.
future dividends declared in euros will be converted into pounds sterling See page 176 for their contact details.
and US dollars will be calculated based on the average exchange rate Shareholders may also find the investors section of our corporate of the five business days during the week prior to the payment of the website, vodafone.
com investor, useful for general queries and dividend.
The Board has determined that future dividend growth will information about the Company.
be calculated from the level of 14.48 eurocents per share in 2016, which is equivalent to the 2016 total dividend payout of 11.45 pence at the Shareholder communications year-end : exchange rate of 1.2647.
A growing number of our shareholders have opted to receive their See vodafone.
com dividends for further information about dividend communications from us electronically using email and web-based payments or, alternatively, please contact our registrar or the ADS communications.
The use of electronic communications, rather depositary, as applicable.
See page 176 for their contact information.
than printed paper documents, means information about the Company can be received as soon as it is available and has the Dividend reinvestment plan added benefit of reducing costs and our impact on the environment.
We offer a dividend reinvestment plan which allows holders of ordinary Each timewe issue a shareholder communication, shareholders who shares who choose to participate to use their cash dividends to acquire have positively elected for electronic communication or are deemed additional shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf to have consented to receive electronic communication in accordance by the plan administrator through a low cost dealing arrangement.
with the Companies Act 2006 will be sent an email alert containing For ADS holders, BNY Mellon maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan which a link to the relevant documents.
is a direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts with a dividend reinvestment facility.
