Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 28.
Acquisitions and disposals We completed a number of small acquisitions during the year.
The note below provides details of these transactions as well as those in the prior year including, most significantly, the acquisition of Grupo Corporativo Ono, S. A. Ono.
For further details see Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty in note 1 Basis of preparation to the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting policies Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree, if any, over the net amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
The interest of the non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree may initially be measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an  basis.
Acquisition of interests from non-controlling shareholders In transactions with non-controlling parties that do not result in a change in control, the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid or received and the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted is recognised in equity.
Acquisitions The aggregate cash consideration in respect of purchases of interests in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired, is as follows: m Cash consideration paid: Acquisitions completed during the year 44 Net cash acquired 1 43 Acquisitions During the 2016 financial year, the Group completed a number of acquisitions for an aggregate net cash consideration of 43 million.
The aggregate fair values of goodwill, identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired operations were 17 million, 38 million and 12 million respectively.
In addition, the Group completed the acquisition of certain non-controlling interests for a net cash consideration of 48 million.
Grupo Corporativo Ono, S. A. Ono On 23 July 2014, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Ono for a cash consideration of 2,945 million.
The primary reason for acquiring thebusiness was to create a leading integrated communications operator in Spain, offering customers unified communication services.
The purchase price allocation is set out in the table below: Fair value m Net assets acquired: 1 Identifiable intangible assets 777 Property, plant and equipment 3,272 Other investments 7 Trade and other receivables 156 Cash and cash equivalents 143 Current and deferred taxation 647 Short and long-term borrowings 3,001 Trade and other payables 391 Provisions 83 Net identifiable assets acquired 1,527 Non-controlling interests 5 2 Goodwill 1,423 3 Total consideration 2,945 Notes: 1 Identifiable intangible assets of 777 million consisted of customer contracts and relationships of 710 million, brand of 33 million and software of 34 million.
2 The goodwill arising on acquisition is principally related to the synergies expected to arise following the integration of the Ono business.
These principally relate to synergies expected to arise following integration of the respective networks, operating cost rationalisation and revenue synergies driven by the larger network footprint and incremental revenue streams from integrated services.
3 Transaction costs of 11 million were charged in the Groups consolidated income statement in the year ended 31 March 2015.
