Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis The Groups businesses are managed on a geographical basis.
Selected financial data is presented on this basisbelow.
The Groups operating segments are established on the basis of those components of the Group that are evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The Group has a single group of related services and products, being the supply of communications services and products.
Revenue is attributed to a country or region based on the location of the Group company reporting the revenue.
Transactions between operating segments are charged at arms-length prices.
Segment information is provided on the basis of geographic areas, being the basis on which the Group manages its worldwide interests, with each country in which the Group operates treated as an operating segment.
The aggregation of operating segments into the Europe and AMAP regions reflects, in the opinion of management, the similar economic characteristics within each of those regions as well the similar products and services offered and supplied, classes of customers and the regulatory environment.
In the case of the Europe region this largely reflects membership of the European Union, while for the AMAP region this largely includes emerging and developing economies that are in the process of rapid growth and industrialisation.
Certain financial information is provided separately within the Europe region for Germany, Italy, the UK and Spain, and within the AMAP region for India and Vodacom, as these operating segments are individually material for the Group.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group amended its segmental reporting to reflect changes in the internal management of its Enterprise business.
The primary change has been that on 1 April 2015, the Group redefined its segments to report international voice transit revenue and costs within common functions rather than within the results disclosed for each country and region.
The results presented for the years ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 have been restated onto a comparable basis.
There is no impact on total Group revenue or cost.
Accounting policies Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent the Group has delivered goods or rendered services under an agreement, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable, exclusive of sales taxes and discounts.
The Group principally obtains revenue from providing mobile and fixed telecommunication services including: access charges, voice and video calls, messaging, interconnect fees, fixed and mobile broadband and related services such as providing televisual and music content, connection fees and equipment sales.
Products and services may be sold separately or in bundled packages.
Revenue for access charges, voice and video calls, messaging and fixed and mobile broadband provided to contract customers is recognised as services are performed, with unbilled revenue resulting from services already provided accrued at the end of each period and unearned revenue from services to be provided in future periods deferred.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until such time as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires.
Revenue from interconnect fees is recognised at the time the services are performed.
Revenue for the provision of televisual and music content is recognised when or as the Group performs the related service and, depending on the nature of the service, is recognised either at the gross amount billed to the customer or the amount receivable by the Group as commission for facilitating the service.
Customer connection revenue is recognised together with the related equipment revenue to the extent that the aggregate equipment and connection revenue does not exceed the fair value of the equipment delivered to the customer.
Any customer connection revenue not recognised together with related equipment revenue is deferred and recognised over the period in which services are expected to be provided to the customer.
Revenue for device sales is recognised when the device is delivered to the end customer and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred.
For device sales made to intermediaries, revenue is recognised if the significant risks associated with the device are transferred to the intermediary and the intermediary has no general right to return the device to receive a refund.
If the significant risks are not transferred, revenue recognition is deferred until sale of the device to an end customer by the intermediary or the expiry of any right of return.
In revenue arrangements including more than one deliverable, the arrangements are divided into separate units of accounting.
Deliverables are considered separate units of accounting if the following two conditions are met: i the deliverable has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis and ii there is evidence of the fair value of the item.
The arrangement consideration is allocated to each separate unit of accounting based on its relative fair value.
Revenue allocated to deliverables is restricted to the amount that is receivable without the delivery of additional goods or services.
This restriction typically applies to revenue recognised for devices provided to customers, including handsets.
Commissions Intermediaries are given cash incentives by the Group to connect new customers and upgrade existing customers.
For intermediaries who do not purchase products and services from the Group, such cash incentives are accounted for as an expense.
Such cash incentives to other intermediaries are also accounted for as an expense if: a the Group receives an identifiable benefit in exchange for the cash incentive that is separable from sales transactions to that intermediary: and a the Group can reliably estimate the fair value of that benefit.
Cash incentives that do not meet these criteria are recognised as a reduction of the related revenue.
This had the effect of reducing equipment revenue and decreasing direct expenses, with no impact on profits or cash flows.
The impact on prior years is not material.
2 Discontinued operations comprise our US group whose principal asset was a 45% interest in Verizon Wireless, which was sold on 21 February 2014.
Refer to note 7 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
Total revenue recorded in respect of the sale of goods for the year ended 31 March 2016 was 3,269 million 2015: 3,211 million, 2014: 2,660 million.
The Groups measure of segment profit, EBITDA, excludes depreciation, amortisation, impairment loss, restructuring costs, loss on disposal of fixed assets, the Groups share of results in associates and joint ventures and other income and expense.
A reconciliation of EBITDA to operating profit loss is shown overleaf.
For a reconciliation of operating profit loss to profit for the financial year, see the consolidated income statement on page87.
97 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
2 Includes additions to property, plant and equipment and computer software, reported within intangibles.
Excludes licences and spectrum additions.
3 The Groups measure of segment cash flow is reconciled to the closest equivalent GAAP measure cash generated by operations, on page 191.
