Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Vodafone Group Plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: a Vodafone Group Plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups loss and cash flows for the year then ended: a the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: a the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and a the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the 2016 Annual Report the Annual Report, comprise: a the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 March 2016: a the Company statement of financial position as at 31 March 2016: a the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: a the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: a the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: a the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and a the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law together United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 180 million which represents 5% of a three year average of adjusted operating profit AOP.
We used a three year average given the impact of Project Spring investment for definition of Project Spring refer to pages 6 and 7 in the Annual Report in the current year to ensure that the measure is more durable over a period of time.
We identified eight local operations which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial Materiality information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics including UK, Spain, Italy, India, Germany and Vodacom Group Limited.
The scope of work in Spain and Germany included an audit of the complete financial information of Grupo Corporativo Ono.
S. A. Ono and Kabel Deutschland GmbH KDG.
Further specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, treasury and material provisions and contingent liabilities, were performed at the Groups Head Office.
Audit scope a Taxation matters including a provisioning claim for withholding tax in India and the recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets in Luxembourg and Germany.
Areas of a Revenue recognition accuracy of revenue recorded given the complexity of systems.
79 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK and Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Taxation matters The Group operates across a large number of We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect of provisioning for jurisdictions and is subject to periodic challenges by withholding tax and the recognition and recoverability of deferred taxassets.
local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the We used our specialist tax knowledge to gain an understanding of the current status of normal course of business including transfer pricing, the Indian tax investigation and monitored changes in the disputes by reading external indirect taxes and transaction related tax matters.
As at advice received by the Group, where relevant, to establish that the tax provisions had been 31 March 2016, the Group has current taxes payable of appropriately adjusted to reflect the latest external developments.
In respect of the deferred tax assets, we assessed the recoverability of losses from a tax We have focused on two matters relating to the legal perspective through performing the following: claim in respect of withholding tax on the acquisition of Hutchison Essar Limited and the recognition and a understanding how losses arose and where they are located, including to which recoverability of deferred tax assets in Luxembourg subgroups they are attributed: andGermany.
a considering whether the losses can be reversed: Provisioning claim for withholding tax there continues a assessing any restrictions on future use: to be uncertainty regarding the resolution of the legal claim from the Indian authorities in respect a evaluating the results of local statutory impairment assessments including reversals: of withholding tax on the acquisition of Hutchison a considering the impact of recent regulatory developments, as applicable: and EssarLimited.
a determining whether any of the losses will expire.
Recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets in Luxembourg and Germany significant judgement is In addition we assessed the application of International Accounting Standard 12 Income required in relation to the recognition and recoverability Taxes including: of deferred tax assets, particularly in respect of losses in Luxembourg and Germany.
During the current year, a understanding the triggers for recognition and derecognition of deferred tax assets: 3,207 million of deferred tax assets have been utilised a considering effects of tax planning strategies: and or fide-recognised connected with the revaluation of investments for Luxembourg GAAP purposes.
a assessing recoverability of assets against forecast income streams, including reliability of future income projections.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of We determined that the carrying value of deferred tax assets at 31 March 2016 was estimation uncertainty, note 6 Taxation and note 30 supported by managements plans including intercompany funding arrangements.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 6 and note 30 of the financial statements, including the enhanced disclosures made in respect of the utilisation period of deferred tax assets.
80 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of goodwill Vodafone Group Plc has goodwill of 22,789 million We evaluated the appropriateness of managements identification of the Groups CGUs contained within 22 cash generating units CGUs.
and the continued satisfactory operation of the Groups controls over the impairment assessment process.
Impairment charges to goodwill have been recognised in prior periods.
With challenging trading Our procedures included challenging management on the suitability of the impairment conditions continuing in certain territories, the Groups model and reasonableness of the assumptions, with particular attention paid to the performance and prospects could be impacted European businesses, through performing the following: increasing the risk that goodwill is impaired.
a benchmarking Vodafones key market-related assumptions in managements valuation For the CGUs that contain goodwill, the determination models with industry comparators and with assumptions made in the prior years of recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value including revenue and margin trends, capital expenditure on network assets and less costs to sell and value-in-use, requires judgement spectrum, market share and customer churn, foreign exchange rates and discount on the part of management in both identifying and rates, against external data where available, using our valuation expertise: then valuing the relevant CGUs.
Recoverable amounts a testing the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and agreeing relevant data are based on managements view of variables such as to Board approved Long-Range Plans: and future average revenue per user, average customer numbers and customer churn, timing and approval of a assessing the reliability of managements forecast through a review of actual future capital, spectrum and operating expenditure and performance against previous forecasts.
the most appropriate discount rate.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 4 and note 10 of the In the year ended 31 March 2016, a pre-tax impairment financial statements, including the sensitivities provided with respect to Germany, Spain, charge of 450 million was recognised related to and Romania.
Based on our procedures, we noted no exceptions and consider managements key Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 assumptions to be within a reasonable range.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, note 4 Impairment losses and note 10 Intangible assets.
Provisions and contingent liabilities There are a number of threatened and actual legal, Our procedures included the following: regulatory and tax cases against the Group.
There is a a testing key controls surrounding litigation, regulatory and tax procedures: high level of judgement required in estimating the level of provisioning required.
a where relevant, reading external legal opinions obtained by management: Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 a meeting with regional and local management and reading subsequent Critical accounting judgements and key sources Group correspondence: of estimation uncertainty, note 17 Provisions and a discussing open matters with the Group general counsel, Group litigation, regulatory, note30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings.
general counsel and tax teams: a assessing and challenging managements conclusions through understanding precedents set in similar cases: and a circularising where appropriate relevant third party legal representatives and direct discussion with them regarding certain material cases.
Based on the evidence obtained, while noting the inherent uncertainty with such legal, regulatory and tax matters, we determined the level of provisioning at 31 March 2016 tobe appropriate and at a level consistent with previous periods.
We validated the completeness and appropriateness of the related disclosures through assessing that the disclosure of the uncertainties in note 17 and note 30 of the financial statements was sufficient.
81 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition accuracy of revenue recorded given the complexity of systems There is an inherent risk around the accuracy of We instructed the eight local operations in Group audit scope to undertake consistent revenue recorded given the complexity of systems audit procedures.
Our audit approach included controls testing and substantive and the impact of changing pricing models to revenue procedures covering, in particular: recognition tariff structures, incentive arrangements, a testing the IT environment in which billing, rating and other relevant support systems discounts etc.. reside, including the change control procedures in place around systems that bill The application of revenue recognition accounting material revenue streams: standards is complex and involves a number of key a testing the end-to-end reconciliation from business support systems to billing and judgements and estimates.
rating systems to the general ledger.
This testing included validating material journals Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report and processed between the billing system and general ledger: note1 Critical accounting judgements and key a performing tests on the accuracy of customer bill generation on a sample basis and sources of estimation uncertainty.
testing of a sample of the credits and discounts applied to customer bills: and a testing cash receipts for a sample of customers back to the customer invoice.
We also considered the application of the Groups accounting policies to amounts billed and the accounting implications of new business models to check that Group accounting policies were appropriate for these models and were followed.
Based on our work, we noted no significant issues on the accuracy of revenue recorded inthe year.
Significant one-off transactions We focused on two significant one-off transactions Our procedures included the following: which occurred during the year: the receipt of Indian a evaluating the design and implementation of controls in respect of significant one-off spectrum auction allocations and the issuance of transactions: and mandatory convertible bonds.
Accounting for these transactions and related disclosures requires the a evaluating managements accounting papers on how IFRSs have been applied to the exercise of significant judgement.
receipt of Indian spectrum auction allocations and the issuance of the mandatory convertible bonds.
Receipt of Indian spectrum auction allocations at31 March 2015 the allocation of spectrum was In addition we performed procedures on specific transactions as follows: provisional subject to governmental and judiciary approval.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, the a receipt of Indian spectrum auction allocations assessed the key judgements around Group recognised spectrum assets and a corresponding the timing of when substantially all of the risks and rewards of the spectrum asset liability of 2,731 million as the prior material transferred to the Group: and uncertainties surrounding the approval processes were a issuance of mandatory convertible bonds no longer present.
a reviewed the key terms within the bond contract to conclude that the designation Issuance of mandatory convertible bonds in February as a compound financial instrument was appropriate and no separately accountable 2016 the Group issued 2.88 billion of mandatory embedded derivatives were present: convertible bonds.
There is significant judgement on the accounting classification of the convertible bond.
a assessed the appropriateness of the liability and equity split: and The bonds are classified as a compound financial a considered the terms of related hedging transactions to confirm that these instrument and 119 million has been recognised within transactions should be accounted for independently to the bond.
liabilities and 2,754 million within equity.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 Based on our procedures, we noted no issues and were satisfied with the associated Critical accounting judgements and key sources of accounting for these matters.
estimation uncertainty and note 22 Liquidity and We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 22 capital resources.
82 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Capitalisation and asset lives There are a number of areas where management We tested controls in place over the fixed asset cycle, evaluated the appropriateness of judgement impacts the carrying value of property, plant capitalisation policies, performed tests of details on costs capitalised and assessed the and equipment, software intangible assets and their timeliness of the transfer of assets in the course of construction.
There were no exceptions respective depreciation profiles.
These include: noted from our testing.
a the decision to capitalise or expense costs: Our detailed testing on the application of the asset life review identified no issues.
Inperforming these procedures, we challenged the judgements made by a the annual asset life review including the impact managementincluding: of changes in the Groups strategy: and a the nature of underlying costs capitalised as part of the cost of the network rollout: a the timeliness of the transfer from assets in the course of construction.
a the appropriateness of asset lives applied in the calculation of depreciation: and a in assessing the need for accelerated depreciation given the network modernisation Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 programme in place across Europe under Project Spring.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, note 10 Intangible assets and No issues were noted from our testing.
note 11 Property, plant and equipment.
IT systems and controls We conducted detailed end-to-end walkthroughs of the finance processes, utilising our We place a high level of reliance on the Groups understanding from the prior year to reassess the design effectiveness of the key internal IT systems and key internal controls.
As a result a controls and to identify changes.
We then conducted testing of the operating effectiveness significant proportion of our audit effort was conducted of these controls to obtain evidence that they operated throughout the year.
in this area at local, regional and Group levels and at the In response to the changes and control enhancements made during the year, Groups shared service centres.
weperformed the following: Our focus, in this our second year as auditors, was a reviewed the design of the standard controls to ensure they mitigated the relevant on understanding and validating the impacts of key financial reporting risks and testing samples from the periods immediately prior to and changes being made to the control environment having post implementation: established an extensive understanding and baseline last year.
a where systems changed during the year, tested IT general controls and data migration processes: The Group has continued to devote considerable resources to the development of key business and a tested the enhanced user access management controls: related IT controls to ensure a robust system of internal a following issues with the implementation of a new billing platform in the UK, control as described in the Audit and Risk Committee we amended our planned audit approach and performed additional substantive Report on pages 47 to 52. testing: and a tested controls and performed additional substantive procedures of key general ledger account reconciliations and manual journals.
We did not regard any of the control issues identified in 2016 as significant in the context of the Group financial statements.
No control matters identified represented a material weakness in internal control.
83 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls including those performed at the Groups shared service centres, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group operates in 24 countries across two regions: Europe and AMAP.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the local operations by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those local operations to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Groups local operations vary in size with the eight operations in Group scope UK, Spain, Italy, India, Germany, Vodacom Group Limited, Ono and KDG representing 72% and 74% of the Groups revenue and AOP.
We identified these eight local operations as those that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
The materiality applied by the component auditors in the context of the Group audit ranged from 12 million to 100 million.
These local operations are also subject to audits for local statutory purposes where their local statutory materiality ranges from 12 million to 124 million.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed to give appropriate coverage of all material balances at both geographical division and Group levels.
The Group engagement team visited all eight operations in scope for Group reporting during the audit cycle and the lead audit partner attended the year-end audit clearance meetings.
In addition, audits for local statutory purposes are performed at a further 15 locations.
Where possible, the timing of local statutory audits was accelerated to align to the Group audit timetable, with significant findings reported to the Group engagement team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 180 million 2015: 220 million.
How we determined it 5% of AOP before tax averaged over three years.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with the prior year, we consider this adjusted measure to be a key driver of business value and a focus for members, and used a three year average given the impact of Project Spring for definition of Project Spring refer to pages 6 and 7 in the Annual Report in the current year to ensure that the measure is more durable over a period of time.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million 2015: 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on pages 76 and 77, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
84 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: a the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and a the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 76 and 77 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK and Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: a Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
a materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or a apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or a otherwise misleading.
a the statement given by the Directors on pages 76 and 77, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report arising 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken from this responsibility.
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
a the section of the Annual Report on page 47, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report arising the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated from this responsibility.
by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: a the Directors confirmation on page 76 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to add or to C. 2.1of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the draw attention to.
Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
a the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add or to managed or mitigated.
a the Directors explanation on page 29 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to add or to C. 2.2of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period draw attention to.
they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: a we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or a the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
85 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to 10 further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibility set out on pages 76 and 77, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: a whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: a the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and a the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Kemp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 17 May 2016 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Vodafone Group Plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
3 Note that the report set out above is included for the purposes of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report for 2016 only and does not form part of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report on Form 86 20-F for 2016.
