Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2016 Shareholder information Unaudited information Investor calendar Ex-dividend date for final dividend 9 June 2016 Record date for final dividend 10 June 2016 Trading update 22 July 2016 Annual general meeting 29 July 2016 Final dividend payment 3 August 2016 Half-year financial results 15 November 2016 1 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 24 November 2016 1 Record date for interim dividend 25 November 2016 1 Interim dividend payment 2 February 2017 Note: 1 Provisional dates.
Dividend tax allowance Dividends From April 2016 dividend tax credits will be replaced by an annual See pages 36 and 111 for details on dividend amount per share.
5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend income across an individuals Payment of dividends by direct credit entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals will pay tax in the We pay cash dividends directly to shareholders bank or building society UK on their dividend income at a rate dependent on their income tax accounts.
This ensures secure delivery and means dividend payments bracket and personal circumstances.
Vodafone will continue to provide are credited toshareholders bank or building society accounts registered shareholders with a confirmation of the dividends paid on the same day as payment.
A dividend confirmation covering and this should be included with any other dividend income received both the interim and final dividends paid during the financial year when calculating and reporting total dividend income received.
is sent to shareholders at the time of the interim dividend in February.
It is theshareholders responsibility to include all dividend income ADS holders may alternatively have their cash dividends paid by cheque.
Overseas dividend payments This change was announced by the Chancellor, as part of the Holders of ordinary shares resident in the Eurozone defined for UK Government Budget in July 2015.
If you have any tax queries, please this purpose as a country that has adopted the euro as its national contact a financial adviser.
currency automatically receive their dividends in euros.
The sterling euro exchange rate is determined by us in accordance with our Articles Managing your shares via Investor Centre of Association up to 13 business days before the payment date.
Computershare operates a portfolio service for investors in ordinary Holders resident outside the UK and Eurozone automatically receive shares, called Investor Centre.
This provides our shareholders with dividends in pounds sterling but may elect to receive dividends online access to information about their investments as well as a facility in localcurrency directly into their bank account by registering to help manage their holdings online, such as being able to: for ourregistrars Computershare Global Payments Service.
a update dividend mandate bank instructions and review dividend Visit investorcentre.
co. uk for details and terms and conditions.
payment history: Cash dividends to ADS holders will be paid by the ADS depositary a update member details and address changes: and in USdollars.
The sterling US dollar exchange rate for this purpose is determined by us up to ten New York and London business days a register to receive Company communications electronically.
Computershare also offers an internet and telephone share dealing For the financial year ending 31 March 2017 and beyond, dividends will service to existing shareholders.
be declared in euros and paid in euros, pounds sterling and US dollars, aligning the Groups shareholder returns with the primary currency The service can be obtained at investorcentre.
Shareholders with in which we generate free cash flow.
The foreign exchange rate at which any queries regarding their holding should contact Computershare.
future dividends declared in euros will be converted into pounds sterling See page 176 for their contact details.
and US dollars will be calculated based on the average exchange rate Shareholders may also find the investors section of our corporate of the five business days during the week prior to the payment of the website, vodafone.
com investor, useful for general queries and dividend.
The Board has determined that future dividend growth will information about the Company.
be calculated from the level of 14.48 eurocents per share in 2016, which is equivalent to the 2016 total dividend payout of 11.45 pence at the Shareholder communications year-end : exchange rate of 1.2647.
A growing number of our shareholders have opted to receive their See vodafone.
com dividends for further information about dividend communications from us electronically using email and web-based payments or, alternatively, please contact our registrar or the ADS communications.
The use of electronic communications, rather depositary, as applicable.
See page 176 for their contact information.
than printed paper documents, means information about the Company can be received as soon as it is available and has the Dividend reinvestment plan added benefit of reducing costs and our impact on the environment.
We offer a dividend reinvestment plan which allows holders of ordinary Each timewe issue a shareholder communication, shareholders who shares who choose to participate to use their cash dividends to acquire have positively elected for electronic communication or are deemed additional shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf to have consented to receive electronic communication in accordance by the plan administrator through a low cost dealing arrangement.
with the Companies Act 2006 will be sent an email alert containing For ADS holders, BNY Mellon maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan which a link to the relevant documents.
is a direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts with a dividend reinvestment facility.
175 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Shareholder information continued Unaudited information We encourage all our shareholders to sign up for this service Landmark Asset Search by providing us with an email address.
You can register your email We participate in an online service which provides asearch address via our registrar at investorcentre.
co. uk or contact them via the facility for solicitors and probate professionals to quickly and telephone number provided on page 176.
com investor easily trace UK shareholdings relating to deceased estates.
for further information about this service.
co. uk or call 44 0 844 844 9967 for further information.
Annual General Meeting Our thirty-second annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton Warning to shareholders boiler room scams London Metropole Hotel, 225 Edgware Road, London W2 1JU, Over recent years we have become aware of investors who have on Friday 29 July 2016 at 11.00 am.
The annual general meeting will received unsolicited calls or correspondence, in some cases be transmitted via a live webcast which can be viewed on our website purporting to have been issued by us, concerning investment matters.
com agm on the day of the meeting.
Arecording will These callers typically make claims of highly profitable opportunities be available to view after that date.
in UK orUS investments which turn out to be worthless or simply do not exist.
These approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies ShareGift and individuals and are commonly known as boiler room scams.
We support ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme registered Investors are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice or offers charity number 1052686.
Through ShareGift, shareholders who to buy shares.
If it sounds too good to be true, it often is.
haveonly a very small number of shares, which might be considered See the FCA website at fca.
uk consumers scams for more detailed uneconomic to sell, are able to donate them to charity.
Donated shares information about this or similar activities.
are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to awide range of UK charities.
org or call 44 0 20 7930 3737 for further details.
Registrar and transfer office The Registrar Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Investor Services Ireland Ltd The Pavilions PO Box 9742 Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ, England Dublin 18, Ireland Telephone: 44 0 370 702 0198 Telephone: 353 0 818 300 999 investorcentre.
co. uk contactus ADS depositary BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 30170 College Station, TX 77842-3170, United States of America Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 toll free or, for calls outside the United States, 1 201 680 6825 not toll free and enter company number 2160 Email: shrrelations@.
com Quarter High Low High Low Share price history 2014 2015 The closing share price at 31 March 2016 was 221.20 pence First quarter 2.27 1.90 38.26 32.00 31March2015: 220.45 pence.
Third quarter 2.34 1.85 36.55 29.67 The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, i the reported Fourth quarter 2.40 2.15 36.03 32.30 high and low middle market quotations of ordinary shares on the 2015 2016 London Stock Exchange, and ii the reported high and low sales First quarter 2.55 2.20 39.21 32.71 pricesofADSs on NASDAQ.
176 Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2016 Foreign currency translation Major shareholders The following table sets out the pounds sterling exchange rates of the BNY Mellon, as custodian of our ADR programme, held approximately 20 21 other principal currencies of the Group, being: euros, or eurocents, 13.46% of our ordinary shares of 20 US centseach at 16 May 2016 the currency of the European Union EU member states which have as nominee.
The total number of ADRs outstanding at 16 May 2016 was adopted the euro as their currency, and US dollars, US$, cents 387,958,868.
At this date 1,495 holders of record of ordinary shares had or, the currency of the United States.
registered addresses in the United States and in total held approximately 0.008% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
31 March Currency 1 2016 2015 % Change At 31 March 2016 the following percentage interests in the ordinary Average: share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Euro 1.37 1.28 7.0 Transparency Rules, DTR 5, have been notified to the Directors.
US dollar 1.51 1.61 6.2 Shareholder Shareholding At 31 March: Black Rock Investment Management Ltd. 6.62% Euro 1.26 1.38 8.7 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. 3.19% US dollar 1.44 1.48 2.7 No changes in the interests disclosed under DTR 5 have been notified The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, to the Company between 31 March 2016 and 16 May 2016. the period end, average, high and low exchanges rates for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00.
Between 1 April 2013 and 16 May 2016 Capital Group Companies Year ended 31 March 31 March Average High Low Inc. has held more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, 2012 1.60 1.60 1.67 1.53 the ordinary shares of the Company.
During this period, and as notified, its holding was reduced to below the3% reporting threshold.
2013 1.52 1.58 1.63 1.49 2014 1.67 1.59 1.67 1.49 The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held 2015 1.48 1.61 1.71 1.46 by these shareholders are identical in all respects to the rights attaching 2016 1.44 1.51 1.59 1.39 to all the ordinary shares of the Company.
The Directors are not aware at 16 May 2016 of any other interest of 3% or more in the ordinary share The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high and low capital of the Company.
The Company is not directly or indirectly owned exchange rates for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00. or controlled by any foreign government or any other legal entity.
Year ended 31 March High Low There are no arrangements known to the Company that could result November 2015 1.54 1.50 in a change of control of the Company.
December 2015 1.52 1.48 January 2016 1.47 1.42 Articles of Association and February 2016 1.46 1.39 applicable English law March 2016 1.45 1.39 The following description summarises certain provisions April 2016 1.46 1.41 of the Companys Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Markets Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales and the Companys Articles Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the London of Association.
See Documents on display on page179 for information StockExchange and in the form of ADSs on NASDAQ.
on where copies of the Articles of Association can be obtained.
The Company is a public limited company under the laws of England ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on NASDAQ and Wales.
The Company is registered in England and Wales under the under the symbol VOD.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued name Vodafone Group Public Limited Company with the registration by BNY Mellon, as depositary, under a deposit agreement, dated number 1833679. as of 12October 1988, as amended and restated on 26 December 1989, 16September 1991, 30 June 1999, 31 July 2006 and 24 February All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, 2015 between theCompany, the depositary and the holders from time no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company from to time of ADRsissued thereunder.
the holders of such shares.
ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct BNY English law specifies that any alteration to the Articles of Association Mellon on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders.
shares represented by their ADSs.
See Articles of Association and Articles of Association applicable English laws and rights attaching to the Companys shares The Companys Articles of Association do notspecifically restrict the Voting rights on page 178. objects of the Company.
Shareholders as at 31 March 2016 Directors Number of % of total The Directors are empowered under the Articles of Association Number of ordinary shares held accounts issued shares to exercise all the powers of the Company subject to any restrictions 11,000 338,780 0.22 in the Articles of Association, the Companies Act as defined in the 1,0015,000 49,830 0.38 Articles of Association and any special resolution.
5,00150,000 15,606 0.64 Under the Companys Articles of Association a Director cannot 50,001100,000 525 0.12 vote in respect of any proposal in which the Director, or any person 100,001500,000 672 0.54 connected with the Director, has a material interest other than More than 500,000 1,172 98.10 by virtue of the Directors interest in the Companys shares or other 406,585 100.00 securities.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply in certain circumstances set out in the Articles of Association.
177 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Shareholder information continued Unaudited information The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company Voting rights to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount At a general meeting of the Company, when voting on substantive of all liabilities and obligations of the Group outstanding at any time resolutions i. e. any resolution which is not a procedural resolution each shall not exceed an amount equal to 1.5 times the aggregate of the shareholder who is entitled to vote and is present in person or by proxy Groups share capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed has one vote for every share held a poll vote.
Procedural resolutions in the Articles of Association unless sanctioned by an ordinary such as a resolution to adjourn a general meeting or a resolution on the resolution of the Companys shareholders.
choice of Chairman of a general meeting shall be decided on a show of hands, where each shareholder who is present at the meeting has one The Company can make market purchases of its own shares or agree vote regardless ofthe number of shares held, unless a poll is demanded.
todo so in the future provided it is duly authorised by its members Shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings may appoint proxies in a general meeting and subject to and in accordance with section who are entitled to vote, attend and speak at general meetings.
Such authority was given at the 2015 annual general meeting but no purchases were made during this Two shareholders present in person or by proxy constitute a quorum for financial year.
purposes of a general meeting of the Company.
At each annual general meeting all Directors who were elected Under English law shareholders of a public company such as the or last re-elected at or before the annual general meeting held in the Company are not permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
third calendar year before the current year shall automatically retire.
Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak However, the Board has decided in the interests of good corporate andvote on a poll or a show of hands at any general meeting of the governance that all of the Directors wishing to continue in office should Companys shareholders by the depositarys appointment of them offer themselves for re-election annually.
ascorporate representatives with respect to the underlying ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Alternatively, holders of ADSs are Directors are not required under the Companys Articles of Association entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary tohold any shares of the Company as a qualification to act as a Director, or its nominee who will vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs although the Executive Directors are required to under the inaccordance with their instructions.
Further details are set out on pages 57to 73.
Holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to receive notices of shareholders meetings under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs.
Rights attaching to the Companys shares At 31 March 2016 the issued share capital of the Company was Employees are able to vote any shares held under the Vodafone Group comprised of 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each and Share Incentive Plan and My ShareBank a vested nominee share 20 26,558,570,312 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares of 20 21 account through the respective plans trustees.
As at 31 March 2016, 2,254,825,696 ordinary shares Holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are only were held in Treasury.
entitled to vote on any resolution to vary or abrogate the rights attached Dividend rights to the fixed rate shares.
Holders have one vote for every fully paid 7% Holders of 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are entitled to be paid cumulative fixed rate share.
inrespect of each financial year, or other accounting period of the Liquidation rights Company, a fixed cumulative preferential dividend of 7% per annum In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment on the nominal value of the fixed rate shares.
A fixed cumulative of all liabilities and deductions in accordance with English law, preferential dividend may only be paid out of available distributable the holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares would profits which the Directors have resolved should be distributed.
be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up on such shares, The fixed rate shares do not have any other right to share in the together with certain dividend payments, in priority to holders of the Companys profits.
The holders of the fixed rate shares do not have any other right to share in the Companys surplus assets.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares amount recommended by the Directors.
The Board of Directors may Under section 549 of the Companies Act 2006 Directors are, with also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out certain exceptions, unable to allot the Companys ordinary shares of profits available for distribution.
Dividends on ordinary shares can or securities convertible into the Companys ordinary shares without be paid to shareholders in whatever currency the Directors decide, the authority of the shareholders in a general meeting.
In addition, using anappropriate exchange rate for any currency conversions section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 imposes further restrictions whicharerequired.
on the issue of equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 which include the Companys ordinary shares and securities convertible If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the date of the into ordinary shares which are, or are to be, paid up wholly in cash resolution passed at a general meeting declaring that dividend or the and notfirst offered to existing shareholders.
The Companys articles resolution of the Directors providing for payment of that dividend, ofassociation allow shareholders to authorise Directors for a period the Directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for specified in the relevant resolution to allot i relevant securities the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend generally up to an amount fixed by the shareholders: and ii equity remains unclaimed for 12 years after the relevant resolution either securities for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive declaring that dividend or providing for payment of that dividend, offer up to an amount specified by the shareholders and free of the it willbe forfeited and belong to the Company.
At the 2015 annual general meeting the amount of relevant securities fixed by shareholders under i above and the amount of equity securities specified by shareholders under ii above were both inline with corporate governance guidelines.
Further details of such proposals are provided in the 2016 notice of annual general meeting.
178 Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2016 Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares Documents on display There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby The Company is subject to the information requirements of the persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Exchange Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership with these requirements the Company files its Annual Report percentage although such requirements exist under rules derived from on Form20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
These the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
documents may be inspected at the SECs public reference rooms located at 100F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the General meetings and notices operation of the public reference room can be obtained in the United Subject to the Articles of Association, annual general meetings are held States by calling the SEC on 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, some at such times and place as determined by the Directors of the Company.
of the Companys SEC filings, including all those filed on or after The Directors may also, when they think fit, convene other general 4 November 2002, are available onthe SECs website at sec.
General meetings may also be convened Shareholders can also obtain copies ofthe Companys Articles on requisition as provided by the Companies Act 2006. of Association from our website at vodafone.
com governance An annual general meeting needs to be called on not less than 21 days or fromthe Companys registeredoffice.
Subject to obtaining shareholder approval on an annual basis, the Company may call other general meetings on 14 days notice.
Material contracts The Directors may determine that persons entitled to receive notices At the date of this Annual Report the Group is not party to any contracts ofmeetings are those persons entered on the register at the close that are considered material to the Groups results or operations of business on a day determined by the Directors but not later than except for: 21 days before the date the relevant notice is sent.
The notice may a its US$4.1 billion and 4.0 billion revolving credit facilities which also specify the record date, the time of which shall be determined are discussed in note 22 Liquidity and capital resources to the in accordance with the Articles of Association and the Companies consolidated financial statements: Act2006.
a its subscription agreements for the 2.9 billion of subordinated Under section 336 of the Companies Act 2006 the annual general mandatory convertible bonds placed on 25 February 2016 meeting of shareholders must be held each calendar year and within as discussed in note 22 Liquidity and capital resources to the sixmonths of the Companys year end.
consolidated financial statements: and Variation of rights a the agreed form Contribution and Transfer Agreement in respect If at any time the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of the Dutch joint venture with Liberty Global as detailed in note 29 of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the Commitments to the consolidated financial statements.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006, either with the consent in writing of the holders of three quarters in nominal value of the shares of that class or at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
Exchange controls At every such separate meeting all of the provisions of the Articles There are no UK Government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, or affect the export or import of capital, including but not limited to, except that i the quorum is to be the number of persons which foreign exchange controls on remittance of dividends on the ordinary must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than shares or on the conduct of the Groups operations.
one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds Taxation shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds: ii any As this is a complex area investors should consult their own tax person present in person or by proxy may demand a poll: and iii each advisor regarding the US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax shareholder will have one vote per share held in that particular class consequences of owning and disposing of shares and ADSs in their in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been particular circumstances.
varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that classof shares in sharing in profits or assets This section describes, primarily for a US holder as defined below, of the Company or by aredemption or repurchase of the shares in general terms, the principal US federal income tax and UK tax by the Company.
consequences of owning or disposing of shares or ADSs in the Company held as capital assets for US and UK tax purposes.
This section does not, however, cover the tax consequences for members of certain Limitations on transfer, classes of holders subject to special rules including, for example, voting and shareholding US expatriates and former long-term residents of the United States: As far as the Company is aware there are no limitations imposed on the officers and employees of the Company: holders that, directly, indirectly transfer, holding or voting of the Companys ordinary shares other than or by attribution, hold 5% or more of the Companys voting stock: those limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders, financial institutions: insurance companies: individual retirement those that apply by law e. g. due to insider dealing rules or those that accounts and other tax-deferred accounts: tax-exempt organisations: apply as a result of failure to comply with a notice under section 793 dealers in securities or currencies: investors that will hold shares or ADSs of the Companies Act 2006.
No shareholder has any securities carrying as part of straddles, hedging transactions or conversion transactions special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company for US federal income tax purposes: investors holding shares or ADSs is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may in connection with a trade or business conducted outside of the US: result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
or investors whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
179 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Shareholder information continued Unaudited information A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal Taxation of dividends income tax purposes: UK taxation Under current UK law, no amount will be required to be withheld a an individual citizen or resident of the United States: on account of UK tax from the dividends that we pay.
Shareholders who a a US domestic corporation: are within the charge to UK corporation tax will be subject to corporation tax on the dividends we pay unless the dividends fall within an exempt a an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income tax class and certain other conditions are met.
It is expected that the regardless of its source: or dividends we pay would generally be exempt.
a a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the Individual shareholders in the Company who are residents in the UK will trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised be subject to the income tax on the dividends we pay.
For dividends to control all substantial decisions of the trust, or the trust has validly received before 6 April 2016, a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the cash elected to be treated as a domestic trust for US federal income dividend will be available.
For dividends received on or after 6 April tax purposes.
2016 dividends received will no longer be eligible for tax credit and will be taxable in the UK at the dividend rates applicable where the income If an entity or arrangement treated as a partnership for US federal received is above the tax-free dividend allowance 5,000 per tax year.
income tax purposes holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the US federal income taxation partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
Holders that are Subject to the passive foreign investment company PFIC rules entities or arrangements treated as partnerships for US federal income described below, a US holder is subject to US federal income taxation tax purposes should consult their tax advisors concerning the US federal on the gross amount of any dividend we pay out of our current income tax consequences to them and their partners of the ownership or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal and disposition of shares or ADSs by the partnership.
However, the Company does not maintain calculations of its earnings and profits in accordance with US federal This section is based on the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, income tax accounting principles.
US holders should therefore assume as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations that any distribution by the Company with respect to shares will thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and on the tax be reported as ordinary dividend income.
Dividends paid to a nonlaws of the UK, the Double Taxation Convention between the United corporate US holder will be taxable to the holder at the reduced rate States and the UK the treaty and current HM Revenue and Customs normally applicable to long-term capital gains provided that certain published practice, all as currently in effect.
These laws are subject requirements are met.
to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
This section also assumes that the UK Finance Bill, as ordered to be published on 24 March 2016, will Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, be enacted without amendment.
in the case of shares, or the depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend and will not be eligible for the This section is further based in part upon the representations of the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
The amount of the dividend distribution to be included in income will be the US dollar value of the pound sterling payments made For the purposes of the treaty and the USUK double taxation determined at the spot pound sterling US dollar rate on the date the convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Convention, dividends are received by the US holder, in the case of shares, or the and for US federal income tax and UK tax purposes, this section depositary, in the case of ADSs, regardless of whether the payment is based on the assumption that a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs is in fact converted into US dollars at that time.
If dividends received will generally be treated as the owner of the shares in the Company in pounds sterling are converted into US dollars on the day they are represented by those ADRs.
Investors should note that a ruling by the received, the US holder generally will not be required to recognise any first-tier tax tribunal in the UK has cast doubt on this view, but HMRC foreign currency gain or loss in respect of thedividend income.
have stated that they will continue to apply their long-standing practice of regarding the holder of such ADRs as holding the beneficial interest Where UK tax is payable on any dividends received, a foreign tax credit in the underlying shares.
Similarly, the US Treasury has expressed may be claimable under the treaty.
concern that US holders of depositary receipts such as holders of ADRs representing our ADSs may be claiming foreign tax credits in situations where an intermediary in the chain of ownership between such holders and the issuer of the security underlying the depositary receipts, or a party to whom depositary receipts or deposited shares are delivered by the depositary prior to the receipt by the depositary of the corresponding securities, has taken actions inconsistent with the ownership of the underlying security by the person claiming the credit, such as a disposition of such security.
Such actions may also be inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced tax rates that may be applicable to certain dividends received by certain non-corporate holders, as described below.
Accordingly, i the creditability of any UK taxes and ii the availability of the reduced tax rates for any dividends received by certain non-corporate US Holders, each as described below, could be affected by actions taken by such parties or intermediaries.
Generally exchanges of shares for ADRs and ADRs for shares will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax see the section on these taxes on page 181.
180 Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2016 Taxation of capital gains Following rulings of the European Court of Justice and the first-tier tax tribunal in the UK, HMRC have confirmed that the 1.5% SDRT charge UK taxation will not be levied on an issue of shares to a depositary receipts system A US holder that is not resident in the UK will generally not be liable for on the basis that such a charge is contrary to EU law.
UK tax in respect of any capital gain realised on a disposal of our shares or ADSs.
No stamp duty should in practice be required to be paid on any transfer of our ADSs provided that the ADSs and any separate instrument However, a US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of transfer are executed and retained at all times outside the UK.
of a gain on the disposal of our shares or ADSs if the US holder: A transfer of our shares in registered form will attract ad valorem stamp a is a citizen of the United States and is resident in the UK: duty generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase price of the shares.
There is no charge to ad valorem stamp duty on gifts.
a is an individual who realises such a gain during a period of temporary non-residence broadly, where the individual becomes resident SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer in the UK, having ceased to be so resident for a period of five years our shares in registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the or less, and was resident in the UK for at least four out of the seven tax consideration for the transfer, but if, within six years of the date of the years immediately preceding the year of departure from the UK : agreement, an instrument transferring the shares is executed, any SDRT which has been paid would be repayable or, if the SDRT has not a is a US domestic corporation resident in the UK by reason of being been paid, the liability to pay the tax but not necessarily interest and centrally managed and controlled in the UK: or penalties would be cancelled.
However, an agreement to transfer our a is a citizen or a resident of the United States, or a US domestic ADSs will not give rise to SDRT.
corporation, that has used, held or acquired the shares or ADSs PFIC rules in connection with a branch, agency or permanent establishment We do not believe that our shares or ADSs will be treated as stock in the UK through which it carries on a trade, profession or vocation of a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year in the UK.
This conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated In such circumstances, relief from double taxation may be available as a PFIC, US holders of shares would be required i to pay a special under the treaty.
Holders who may fall within one of the above US addition to tax on certain distributions and ii any gain realised categories should consult their professional advisers.
on the sale or other disposition of the shares or ADSs would in general US federal income taxation not be treated as a capital gain unless a US holder elects to be taxed Subject to the PFIC rules described below, a US holder that sells annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the shares or ADSs.
or otherwise disposes of our shares or ADSs generally will recognise Otherwise a US holder would be treated as if he or she has realised a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the such gain and certain excess distributions rateably over the holding difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and period for the shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax the holders adjusted tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the shares rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated.
This capital gain or loss will be a long-term capital gain or loss An interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such if the US holders holding period in the shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
preceding year beginning with the first such year in which our shares The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the or ADSs were treated as stock in a PFIC would also apply.
In addition, US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of losses dividends received from us would not be eligible for the reduced rate is subject to limitations.
of tax described above under Taxation of Dividends US federal income taxation.
Additional tax considerations UK inheritance tax Back-up withholding and information reporting An individual who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes Payments of dividends and other proceeds to a US holder with respect of the Estate Tax Convention and is not a UK national will not to shares or ADSs, by a US paying agent or other US intermediary will be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of our shares or ADSs on the be reported to the Internal Revenue Service IRS and to the US holder individuals death or on a transfer of the shares or ADSs during the as may be required under applicable regulations.
Back-up withholding individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate may apply to these payments if the US holder fails to provide tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property an accurate taxpayer identification number or certification of exempt of a UK permanent establishment or pertain to a UK fixed base used for status or fails to comply with applicable certification requirements.
the performance of independent personal services.
Where the shares Certain US holders are not subject to back-up withholding.
US holders or ADSs have been placed in trust by a settlor they may be subject should consult their tax advisors about these rules and any other to UK inheritance tax unless, when the trust was created, the settlor was reporting obligations that may apply to the ownership or disposition domiciled in the United States and was not a UK national.
Where the of shares or ADSs, including requirements related to the holding shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal of certain foreign financial assets.
gift or estate tax, the estate tax convention generally provides a credit against US federal tax liabilities for UK inheritance tax paid.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any instrument transferring our shares to the custodian of the depositary at the rate of 1.5% on the amount or value of the consideration if on sale or on the value of such shares if not on sale.
Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT, at the rate of 1.5% of the amount or value of the consideration or the value of the shares, could also be payable in these circumstances but no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty equal to such SDRT liability is paid.
