Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Acquisition commitments On 15 February 2016 Vodafone announced that Liberty Global Europe Holding B. V. and Vodafone International Holdings B. V. had reached an agreement to merge their operating businesses in the Netherlands to form a 50:50 joint venture.
The joint venture will operate under both the Vodafone and Ziggo brands and will create a nationwide integrated communications provider in the Netherlands.
Based upon the enterprise value of each business, and after deducting Ziggos 7.3 billion of net debt, Vodafone will make a cash payment to Liberty Global of 1 billion to equalise ownership in the JV, reflecting the 2 billion difference in the two companies equity value.
Vodafone Netherlands will be contributed to the JV on a debt and cash free basis.
The transaction is expected to close around the end of 2016 and is subject to regulatory approvals and consultations with the Works Councils.
During the year ended 31 March 2016 Vodafone agreed to acquire You Broadband India Private Limited and You System Integration Private Limited in India for 35 million.
The transaction, which is expected to close later this year, is subject to regulatory approval by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings Contingent liabilities are potential future cash outflows, where the likelihood of payment is considered more than remote, but is not considered probable or cannot be measured reliably.
2016 2015 m m 1 Performance bonds 849 766 2 Other guarantees and contingent liabilities 2,543 2,539 Notes: 1 Performance bonds require the Group to make payments to third parties in the event that the Group does not perform what is expected of it under the terms of any relatedcontracts or commercial arrangements.
2 Other guarantees principally comprise Vodafone Group Plcs guarantee of the Groups 50% share of an AUD 1.7 billion loan facility and a US$3.5 billion loan facility of its joint venture, VodafoneHutchison Australia Pty Limited.
UK pension schemes The Groups main defined benefit scheme is the Vodafone UK Group Pension Scheme which has two segregated sections, the Vodafone Section and the CWW Section, as detailed in note 26.
The Group has covenanted to provide security in favour of the Vodafone UK Group Pension Scheme Vodafone Section whilst there is a deficit in this section.
The deficit is measured on a prescribed basis agreed between the Group and Trustee.
In 2010 the Group and Trustee agreed security of a charge over UK index linked gilts ILG held by the Group.
The level of the security has varied since inception in line with the movement in the Scheme deficit.
At the 31 March 2016 the Scheme retains security over 264.5 million notional value 2017 ILGs and 76.3 million notional value 2016 ILGs.
The security may be substituted either on a voluntary or mandatory basis.
As and when alternative security is provided, the Group has agreed that the security cover should include additional headroom of 33%, although if cash is used as the security asset the ratio will revert to 100% of the relevant liabilities or, where the proposed replacement security asset is listed on an internationally recognised stock exchange in certain core jurisdictions, the trustee may decide to agree a lower ratio than 133%.
The Company has also provided two guarantees to the Vodafone Section of the scheme for a combined value up to 1.25 billion to provide security over the deficit under certain defined circumstances, including insolvency of the employers.
The Company has also agreed a similar guarantee of up to 1.25 billion for the CWW Section.
An additional smaller UK defined benefit scheme, the THUS Plc Group Scheme, has a guarantee from the Company for up to 110 million.
Legal proceedings The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may from time to time become, involved in a number of legal proceedings, including inquiries from, or discussions with, governmental authorities that are incidental to their operations.
However, save as disclosed below, the Company does not believe that it or its subsidiaries are currently involved in i any legal or arbitration proceedings including any governmental proceedings which are pending or known to be contemplated which may have, or have had in the 12 months preceding the date of this report, a material adverse effect on the financial position or profitability of the Company or its subsidiaries: or ii any material proceedings in which any of the Companys Directors, members of senior management or affiliates are either a party adverse to the Company or its subsidiaries or have a material interest adverse to the Company or its subsidiaries.
Due to inherent uncertainties, the Company cannot make any accurate quantification of any cost, or timing of such cost, which may arise from any of the legal proceedings referred to in this Annual Report.
Telecom Egypt arbitration In October 2009 Telecom Egypt began an arbitration against Vodafone Egypt in Cairo alleging breach of non-discrimination provisions in an interconnection agreement as a result of lower interconnection rates paid to Vodafone Egypt by Mobinil.
Telecom Egypt also sought to join Vodafone International Holdings BV VIHBV, Vodafone Europe BV VEBV and Vodafone Group Plc to the arbitration.
In January 2015 the arbitral tribunal issued its decision.
It held unanimously that it had no jurisdiction to arbitrate the claim against VIHBV, VEBV and Vodafone Group Plc.
The tribunal also held by a three to two majority that Telecom Egypt had failed to establish any liability on the part of Vodafone Egypt.
Telecom Egypt applied to the Egyptian court to set aside the decision.
On 15 March 2016 the Court of Appeal dismissed Telecom Egypts application to annul the arbitration award.
Telecom Egypt had 60 days to appeal to the Cour fide Cassation, which has now expired.
Vodafone Egypt has applied for a certificate to confirm that no appeal has been filed.
