Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Acquisition commitments On 15 February 2016 Vodafone announced that Liberty Global Europe Holding B. V. and Vodafone International Holdings B. V. had reached an agreement to merge their operating businesses in the Netherlands to form a 50:50 joint venture.
The joint venture will operate under both the Vodafone and Ziggo brands and will create a nationwide integrated communications provider in the Netherlands.
Based upon the enterprise value of each business, and after deducting Ziggos 7.3 billion of net debt, Vodafone will make a cash payment to Liberty Global of 1 billion to equalise ownership in the JV, reflecting the 2 billion difference in the two companies equity value.
Vodafone Netherlands will be contributed to the JV on a debt and cash free basis.
The transaction is expected to close around the end of 2016 and is subject to regulatory approvals and consultations with the Works Councils.
During the year ended 31 March 2016 Vodafone agreed to acquire You Broadband India Private Limited and You System Integration Private Limited in India for 35 million.
The transaction, which is expected to close later this year, is subject to regulatory approval by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings Contingent liabilities are potential future cash outflows, where the likelihood of payment is considered more than remote, but is not considered probable or cannot be measured reliably.
2016 2015 m m 1 Performance bonds 849 766 2 Other guarantees and contingent liabilities 2,543 2,539 Notes: 1 Performance bonds require the Group to make payments to third parties in the event that the Group does not perform what is expected of it under the terms of any relatedcontracts or commercial arrangements.
2 Other guarantees principally comprise Vodafone Group Plcs guarantee of the Groups 50% share of an AUD 1.7 billion loan facility and a US$3.5 billion loan facility of its joint venture, VodafoneHutchison Australia Pty Limited.
UK pension schemes The Groups main defined benefit scheme is the Vodafone UK Group Pension Scheme which has two segregated sections, the Vodafone Section and the CWW Section, as detailed in note 26.
The Group has covenanted to provide security in favour of the Vodafone UK Group Pension Scheme Vodafone Section whilst there is a deficit in this section.
The deficit is measured on a prescribed basis agreed between the Group and Trustee.
In 2010 the Group and Trustee agreed security of a charge over UK index linked gilts ILG held by the Group.
The level of the security has varied since inception in line with the movement in the Scheme deficit.
At the 31 March 2016 the Scheme retains security over 264.5 million notional value 2017 ILGs and 76.3 million notional value 2016 ILGs.
The security may be substituted either on a voluntary or mandatory basis.
As and when alternative security is provided, the Group has agreed that the security cover should include additional headroom of 33%, although if cash is used as the security asset the ratio will revert to 100% of the relevant liabilities or, where the proposed replacement security asset is listed on an internationally recognised stock exchange in certain core jurisdictions, the trustee may decide to agree a lower ratio than 133%.
The Company has also provided two guarantees to the Vodafone Section of the scheme for a combined value up to 1.25 billion to provide security over the deficit under certain defined circumstances, including insolvency of the employers.
The Company has also agreed a similar guarantee of up to 1.25 billion for the CWW Section.
An additional smaller UK defined benefit scheme, the THUS Plc Group Scheme, has a guarantee from the Company for up to 110 million.
Legal proceedings The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may from time to time become, involved in a number of legal proceedings, including inquiries from, or discussions with, governmental authorities that are incidental to their operations.
However, save as disclosed below, the Company does not believe that it or its subsidiaries are currently involved in i any legal or arbitration proceedings including any governmental proceedings which are pending or known to be contemplated which may have, or have had in the 12 months preceding the date of this report, a material adverse effect on the financial position or profitability of the Company or its subsidiaries: or ii any material proceedings in which any of the Companys Directors, members of senior management or affiliates are either a party adverse to the Company or its subsidiaries or have a material interest adverse to the Company or its subsidiaries.
Due to inherent uncertainties, the Company cannot make any accurate quantification of any cost, or timing of such cost, which may arise from any of the legal proceedings referred to in this Annual Report.
Telecom Egypt arbitration In October 2009 Telecom Egypt began an arbitration against Vodafone Egypt in Cairo alleging breach of non-discrimination provisions in an interconnection agreement as a result of lower interconnection rates paid to Vodafone Egypt by Mobinil.
Telecom Egypt also sought to join Vodafone International Holdings BV VIHBV, Vodafone Europe BV VEBV and Vodafone Group Plc to the arbitration.
In January 2015 the arbitral tribunal issued its decision.
It held unanimously that it had no jurisdiction to arbitrate the claim against VIHBV, VEBV and Vodafone Group Plc.
The tribunal also held by a three to two majority that Telecom Egypt had failed to establish any liability on the part of Vodafone Egypt.
Telecom Egypt applied to the Egyptian court to set aside the decision.
On 15 March 2016 the Court of Appeal dismissed Telecom Egypts application to annul the arbitration award.
Telecom Egypt had 60 days to appeal to the Cour fide Cassation, which has now expired.
Vodafone Egypt has applied for a certificate to confirm that no appeal has been filed.
149 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings continued Indian tax case In August 2007 and September 2007, Vodafone India Limited VIL and VIHBV respectively received notices from the Indian tax authority alleging potential liability in connection with an alleged failure by VIHBV to deduct withholding tax from consideration paid to the Hutchison Telecommunications International Limited group HTIL in respect of HTILs gain on its disposal to VIHBV of its interests in a wholly-owned subsidiary that indirectly holds interests in VIL.
In January 2012 the Indian Supreme Court handed down its judgement, holding that VIHBVs interpretation of the Income Tax Act 1961 was correct, that the HTIL transaction in 2007 was not taxable in India, and that consequently, VIHBV had no obligation to withhold tax from consideration paid to HTIL in respect of the transaction.
The Indian Supreme Court quashed the relevant notices and demands issued to VIHBV in respect of withholding tax and interest.
On 20 March 2012 the Indian Government returned VIHBVs deposit of INR 25 billion and released the guarantee for INR 85 billion, which was based on the demand for payment issued by the Indian tax authority in October 2010, for tax of INR 79 billion plus interest.
On 28 May 2012 the Finance Act 2012 became law.
The Finance Act 2012 contained provisions intended to tax any gain on transfer of shares in a non-Indian company, which derives substantial value from underlying Indian assets, such as VIHBVs transaction with HTIL in 2007.
Further it seeks to subject a purchaser, such as VIHBV, to a retrospective obligation to withhold tax.
VIHBV received a letter on 3 January 2013 reminding it of the tax demand raised prior to the Indian Supreme Courts judgement and purporting to update the interest element of that demand to a total amount of INR 142 billion.
On 17 January 2014, VIHBV served an amended trigger notice on the Indian Government under the Dutch-India Bilateral Investment Treaty Dutch BIT, supplementing a trigger notice filed on 17 April 2012, immediately prior to the Finance Act 2012 becoming effective, to add claims relating to an attempt by the Indian Government to tax aspects of the transaction with HTIL under transfer pricing rules.
VIHBV arbitration proceedings On 17 April 2014, VIHBV served its notice of arbitration under the Dutch BIT, formally commencing the Dutch BIT arbitration proceedings.
An arbitrator has been appointed by VIHBV.
The Indian Government has also appointed its arbitrator.
The two party-appointed arbitrators failed to appoint a chairman.
Consequently, the President of the International Court of Justice will now appoint the third arbitrator who will act as the presiding arbitrator.
On 15 June 2015, Vodafone Group Plc and Vodafone Consolidated Holdings Limited served a trigger notice on the Indian Government under the United Kingdom-India Bilateral Investment Treaty UK BIT in respect of retrospective tax claims under the Finance Act 2012.
On 4 February 2016, VIHBV received a reminder of an outstanding tax demand of INR 221 billion.
The latest reminder threatens enforcement action if the demand is not satisfied.
Separate proceedings in the Bombay High Court taken against VIHBV to seek to treat it as an agent of HTIL in respect of its alleged tax on the same transaction, as well as penalties of up to 100% of the assessed withholding tax for the alleged failure to have withheld such taxes, were listed for hearing at the request of the Indian Government on 21 April 2016 despite the issue having been ruled upon by the Indian Supreme Court.
The hearing was adjourned to a date yet to be listed.
Should a further demand for taxation be received by VIHBV or any member of the Group as a result of the retrospective legislation, we believe it is probable that we will be able to make a successful claim under the Dutch BIT and or UK BIT.
We did not carry a provision for this litigation or in respect of the retrospective legislation at 31 March 2016, or at previous reporting dates.
Other Indian tax cases VIL and Vodafone India Services Private Limited VISPL formerly 3GSPL are involved in a number of tax cases with total claims exceeding 1.4 billion plus interest, and penalties of up to 300% of the principal.
VISPL tax claims VISPL has been assessed as owing tax of approximately 223 million plus interest of 123 million in respect of i a transfer pricing margin charged for the international call centre of HTIL prior to the 2007 transaction with Vodafone for HTIL assets in India: ii the sale of the international call centre by VISPL to HTIL: and iii the acquisition of and or the alleged transfer of options held by VISPL for VIL.
The first two of the three heads of tax are subject to an indemnity by HTIL.
The larger part of the potential claim is not subject to any indemnity.
VISPL unsuccessfully challenged the merits of the tax demand in the statutory tax tribunal and the jurisdiction of the tax office to make the demand in the High Court.
The Tax Appeal Tribunal heard the appeal and ruled in the Tax Offices favour.
VISPL lodged an appeal and stay application in the Bombay High Court which was concluded in early May 2015.
On 13 July 2015 the tax authorities issued a revised tax assessment reducing the tax VISPL had previously been assessed as owing in respect of i and ii above.
In the meantime, i a stay of the tax demand on a deposit of 20 million and ii a corporate guarantee by VIHBV for the balance of tax assessed remain in place.
On 8 October 2015, the Bombay High Court ruled in favour of Vodafone in relation to the options and the call centre sale.
The Tax Office has recently appealed to the Supreme Court of India.
Indian regulatory cases Litigation remains pending in the Telecommunications Dispute Settlement Appellate Tribunal TDSAT, High Courts and the Indian Supreme Court in relation to a number of significant regulatory issues including mobile termination rates MTRs, spectrum and licence fees, licence extension and 3G intra-circle roaming ICR.
Public interest litigation: Yakesh Anand v Union of India, Vodafone and others The Petitioner brought a special leave petition in the Indian Supreme Court on 30 January 2012 against the Government of India and mobile network operators, including VIL, seeking recovery of the alleged excess spectrum allocated to the operators, compensation for the alleged excess spectrum held in the amount of approximately 4.7 billion and a criminal investigation of an alleged conspiracy between government officials and the network operators.
A claim with similar allegations was dismissed by the Indian Supreme Court in March 2012, with an order that the Petitioner should pay a fine for abuse of process.
The case is pending before the Indian Supreme Court and is expected to be called for hearing at some uncertain future date.
150 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 3G inter-circle roaming: Vodafone India and others v Union of India In April 2013, the Indian Department of Telecommunications DoT issued a stoppage notice to VILs operating subsidiaries and other mobile operators requiring the immediate stoppage of the provision of 3G services on other operators mobile networks in an alleged breach of licence claim.
The DoT also imposed a fine of approximately 5.5 million.
VIL applied to the Delhi High Court for an order quashing the DoTs notice.
Interim relief from the notice has been granted but limited to existing customers at the time with the effect that VIL was not able to provide 3G services to new customers on other operators 3G networks pending a decision on the issue.
The dispute was referred to the TDSAT for decision, which ruled on 28 April 2014 that VIL and the other operators were permitted to provide 3G services to their customers current and future on other operators networks.
The DoT has appealed the judgement and sought a stay of the tribunals judgement.
The DoTs stay application was rejected by the Indian Supreme Court.
The matter is pending before the Indian Supreme Court.
One time spectrum charges: VIL v Union of India The Indian Government has sought to impose one time spectrum charges of approximately 525 million on certain operating subsidiaries of VIL.
VIL filed a petition before the TDSAT challenging the one time spectrum charges on the basis that they are illegal, violate VILs licence terms and are arbitrary, unreasonable and discriminatory.
The tribunal stayed enforcement of the Governments spectrum demand pending resolution of the dispute.
The matter is due to go for final hearing before the Indian Supreme Court, and will be listed in due course.
Other public interest litigation Three public interest litigations have been initiated in the Indian Supreme Court against the Indian Government and private operators on the grounds that the grant of additional spectrum beyond 4.4 6.2 MHz has been illegal.
The cases seek appropriate investigation and compensation for the loss to the exchequer.
Adjusted Gross Revenue AGR dispute before the Indian Supreme Court: VIL and others v Union of India VIL has challenged the tribunals judgement dated 23 April 2015 to the extent that it dealt with the calculation of AGR, upon which license fees and spectrum usage charges are based.
The cumulative impact of the inclusion of these components is approximately Rs.
The DoT also moved cross appeals challenging the tribunals judgement.
In the hearing before the Indian Supreme Court, the Court orally directed the DoT not to take any coercive steps in the matter, which was adjourned.
On 29 February 2016, the Supreme Court ordered that the DoT may continue to raise demands for fees and charges, but may not enforce them until a final decision on the matter.
Other cases in the Group Germany: Patent litigation The telecoms industry is currently involved in significant levels of patent litigation brought by non-practicing entities NPEs which have acquired patent portfolios from current and former industry companies.
Vodafone is currently a party to patent litigation cases in Germany brought against Vodafone Germany by IPCom, St Lawrence Communications LLC a subsidiary of Acacia Research Corporation, and by Intellectual Ventures, all NPEs.
Vodafone has contractual indemnities from suppliers which have been invoked in relation to the alleged patent infringement liability.
Germany: Mannesman and Kabel Deutschland takeover class actions The German courts are determining the adequacy of the mandatory cash offer made to minority shareholders in Vodafones takeover of Mannesman.
This matter has been ongoing since 2001.
The German courts are also determining whether squeeze out compensation is payable to affected Mannesman shareholders in a similar proceeding.
In September 2014, the German courts awarded compensation to minority shareholders of Mannesman in the amount of 229.58 per share, which would result in a pay-out of 19 million plus 10 million of accrued interest.
The German courts also ruled that the squeeze out compensation should amount to 251.31 per share, which would result in a pay-out of 43.8 million plus interest of 23 million of accrued interest.
Vodafone has appealed these decisions.
Similar proceedings were initiated by 80 Kabel Deutschland shareholders.
This proceeding is in its early stages, and, accordingly, Vodafone believes that it is too early to assess the likely quantum of any claim however, Vodafone does not expect that the quantum of any such claim to be material.
The next oral hearing is scheduled for 18 May 2016.
Italy: British Telecom Italy v Vodafone Italy The Italian Competition Authority concluded an investigation in 2007 when Vodafone Italy gave certain undertakings in relation to allegations that it had abused its dominant position in the wholesale market for mobile termination.
In 2010, British Telecom Italy brought a civil damages claim against Vodafone Italy on the basis of the Competition Authoritys investigation and Vodafone Italys undertakings.
British Telecom Italy seeks damages in the amount of 280 million for abuse of dominant position by Vodafone Italy in the wholesale fixed to mobile termination market for the period from 1999 to 2007.
A court appointed expert delivered an opinion to the Court that the range of damages in the case should be in the region of 10 million to 25 million which was reduced in a further supplementary report published in September 2014 to a range of 8 million to 11 million.
Judgement was handed down by the court in August 2015, awarding 12 million, including interest to British Telecom Italy.
British Telecom Italy has appealed the amount of the damages to the Court of Appeal of Milan.
In addition, British Telecom Italy has asked again for a reference to the European Court of Justice for an interpretation of the European community law on antitrust damages.
Vodafone Italy has filed an appeal.
Italy: FASTWEB v Vodafone Italy The Italian Competition Authority concluded an investigation in 2007 when Vodafone Italy gave certain undertakings in relation to allegations it had abused its dominant position in the wholesale market for mobile termination.
In 2010, FASTWEB brought a civil damages claim against Vodafone Italy on the basis of the Competition Authoritys investigation and Vodafone Italys undertakings.
FASTWEB sought damages in the amount of 360 million for abuse of dominant position by Vodafone Italy in the wholesale fixed to mobile termination market.
A court appointed expert delivered an opinion to the Court that the range of damages in the case should be in the region of 0.5 million to 2.3 million.
On 15 October 2014, the Court decided to reject FASTWEBs damages claim in its entirety.
FASTWEB appealed the decision and the first appeal hearing took place in September 2015.
The Court has scheduled a final hearing for September 2016.
151 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings continued Italy: Telecom Italia v Vodafone Italy Teletu Telecom Italia brought civil claims against Vodafone Italy in relation to TeleTus alleged anti-competitive retention of customers.
Telecom Italia seeks damages in the amount of 101 million.
The Court decided on 9 June 2015 to appoint an expert to verify whether TeleTu has put in place anticompetitive retention activities.
The experts work is now underway, and the parties have been invited by the Court to consider settlement.
Greece: Papistas Holdings SA, Mobile Trade Stores formerly Papistas SA and Athanasios and Loukia Papistas v Vodafone Greece, Vodafone Group Plc and certain Directors and Officers of Vodafone.
In December 2013, Mr and Mrs Papistas, and companies owned or controlled by them, brought three claims in the Greek court in Athens against Vodafone Greece, Vodafone Group Plc and certain Directors and officers of Vodafone Greece and Vodafone Group Plc for purported damage caused by the alleged abuse of dominance and wrongful termination of a franchise arrangement with a Papistas company.
Approximately 1.0 billion of the claim is directed exclusively at one former and one current Director of Vodafone Greece.
The balance of the claim approximately 285.5 million is sought from Vodafone Greece and Vodafone Group Plc on a joint and several basis.
Both cases have been adjourned until September 2018, but it is possible that Papistas may re-file his claim under the new Greek civil procedure regime which aims to hear trials within one year.
Netherlands: Consumer credit handset case In February 2016, the Dutch Supreme Court ruled on the Dutch implementation of the EU Consumer Credit Directive and instalment sales agreements a Dutch law concept, holding that bundled all-in mobile subscription agreements i. e. Device along with mobile services are considered consumer credit agreements.
As a result Vodafone Netherlands, together with the industry, has been working with the Ministry of Finance and the Competition Authority on compliance requirements going forward for such offers.
The ruling also has retrospective effect and a claim has been submitted by a claims organisation, which is currently being reviewed by Vodafone Netherlands.
South Africa: GH Investments GHI v Vodacom Congo Vodacom Congo contracted with GHI to install ultra-low cost base stations on a revenue share basis.
After rolling out three sites, GHI stopped and sought to renegotiate the terms.
GHI accused it of bad faith and infringement of intellectual property rights.
In April 2015, GHI issued a formal notice for a claim of US$1.16 billion, although there does not seem to be a proper basis nor any substantiation for the compensation claimed.
The dispute has been submitted to mediation under the International Chamber of Commerce.
A mediator was appointed in September 2015 who convened a first meeting which took place in early November 2015.
A follow-up mediation meeting was scheduled for December 2015, but has been postponed without a new date having been fixed.
South Africa: CWN v Vodacom There are various legal matters relating to Vodacoms investment in Vodacom Congo DRC SA VDRC, the most recent of which is a claim brought by Mr Alieu Badara Mohamed Conteh Conteh in the Commercial Court of Kinshasa Gombe against Vodacom International Limited VCOMIL and VDRC.
Conteh is the controlling shareholder of Congolese Wireless Network s. a. r. l CWN, a company incorporated in the DRC.
CWN is a minority shareholder in VDRC.
These proceedings seek to invalidate a court decision removing Conteh as the statutory manager of CWN, as well as the liquidation of VDRC and the payment of various sums to CWN and Conteh.
The action also includes an unsubstantiated claim for US$14 billion against VCOMIL for its alleged role in helping to undermine Contehs position as former statutory manager of CWN.
The Court of Appeal of Kinshasa Gombe in December 2015 dismissed Contehs case against VCOMIL on the grounds of a lack of proper service of legal process.
South Africa: Makate v Vodacom Proprietary Limited Vodacom In 2008, Mr Makate instituted legal proceedings to claim compensation for a business idea that led to a product known as Please Call Me.
On 1 July 2014, the South Gauteng High Court, Johannesburg the High Court found that Mr Makate had proven the existence of a contract.
However, the High Court ruled that the Company was not bound by that contract because the responsible director of product development and services did not have authority to enter into any such agreement on the Companys behalf.
The High Court also rejected Mr Makates claim on the basis that it had lapsed in terms of the Prescription Act 68 of 1969.
The High Court and Supreme Court of Appeal turned down Mr Makates application for leave to appeal on 11 December 2014 and 2 March 2015, respectively.
Mr Makate applied for leave to appeal in the Constitutional Court.
On 26 April 2016, after having heard the application on 1 September 2015, the Constitutional Court granted leave to appeal and upheld Mr Makates appeal.
In doing so, the Constitutional Court ordered that: i t he Company is bound by the agreement concluded between Mr Makate and the then director of product development and services: ii the Company is to commence negotiations in good faith with Mr Makate to determine reasonable compensation: and iii in the event of the parties failing to agree on the reasonable compensation, the matter must be submitted to Vodacoms Chief Executive Officer for determination of the amount within a reasonable time.
Negotiations between the Company and Mr Makate will commence in accordance with the order of the Constitutional Court.
