Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2016 Regulation Unaudited information Our operating companies are generally subject to regulation governing In February 2016 Deutsche Telekom applied for approval of new the operation of their business activities.
Such regulation typically Unbundled Local Loop ULL fees that would lead to an average takes the form of industry specific law and regulation covering increase of 10% and would be valid until the end of 2019.
On 20 April telecommunications services and general competition antitrust 2016 the National Regulatory Authority BNetzA proposed reducing law applicable to all activities.
the existing ULL rates by up to 1.7%.
The rate decision will, after EU consolidation proceedings, become effective on 1 July 2016.
The following section describes the regulatory frameworks and the key regulatory developments at national and supranational level and In April 2016 BNetzA issued its draft decision on Deutsche in selected countries in which we have significant interests during the Telekoms layer 2 bitstream access product proposal.
The final BNetzA year ended 31 March 2016.
Many of the regulatory developments decision is expected in June 2016.
Furthermore, BNetzA has proposed reported in the following section involve ongoing proceedings to mandate an additional Virtual Unbundled Local Access VULA or consideration of potential proceedings that have not reached product at street cabinets which is not currently technically and a conclusion.
Accordingly, we are unable to attach a specific level commercially defined.
of financial risk to our performance from such matters.
In May 2016 the Commission announced that BNetzAs proposal to allow DT the exclusive deployment of vectoring within the nearshore European Union EU areas of the main distribution frames may not be compliant with EU law, In October 2015 the European Parliament and the European based on the apparent restrictions it places on alternative operators.
Council adopted the European Commissions the Commission Therefore the vectoring proposal and the associated conditions for proposed regulation known as the Telecoms Single Market Package.
the new VULA product will be subject to further scrutiny, with the The regulation requires the abolition of retail roaming surcharges Commission due to announce its decision by September 2016. by June 2017 and introduces net neutrality rules which come into force Italy from 30 April 2016.
In September 2015 Vodafone obtained one of the two L band TDD In May 2015 the Commission published the Digital Single Market blocks equal to 20MHz at just under 232 million.
The licence strategy, aimed at producing a more advanced digital single market.
commenced on 1 January 2016 and expires on 31 December 2029.
The strategy has three pillars: i maximising the growth potential of the In December 2015 further to its investigation into irregularities in the European digital economy: ii creating the right conditions for digital maintenance services of fixed networks, the Italian competition networks and services to flourish: and iii better access for consumers authority AGCM announced its decision to fine Telecom Italia TI and businesses to online e-goods and services across Europe.
21.5 million on the basis it had engaged in agreements with six other The Commission is currently undertaking various consultations which undertakings that abused its market dominance.
In accordance with the will lead to the revision of existing, or the adoption of new, legislation.
decision, TI is now obliged to provide unbundled access to maintenance One of these consultations considers the revision of the EU telecoms activities and to allow their competitors to acquire maintenance services regulatory framework that covers five areas: Next-Generation Access from third parties.
NGA regulation, spectrum, rules for communications services, In December 2015 the National Regulatory Authority AGCOM universal service, and the institutional set-up and governance.
adopted the final decision regarding the wholesale fixed access market.
There is a clear focus on incentivising investment in NGA including The decision requires the application of the same remedies and prices access for mobile backhaul, the further harmonisation of spectrum nationally, cost orientation for all wholesale copper and fibre access regulation and the creation of a fair and level playing field for services and price reductions from 2015 to 2017 for VULA fibre to the competing services.
cabinet FTTC -36% and copper bit-stream -18%.
Other consultations we have or are responding to include: Internet For information on litigation in Italy, see note 30 Contingent liabilities speed and quality: review of national wholesale roaming markets, fair and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements.
use policy and the sustainability mechanism: online platforms, cloud & data, liability of intermediaries, collaborative economy: ICT Standards: United Kingdom tackling unjustified geo-blocking: the needs for internet speed and In September 2015 the national regulatory authority Ofcom quality beyond 2020: review of the Satellite and Cable Directive: published its final decision revising the annual licence fees payable the revision of the Audio Visual Media Services Directive: contract rules on licences for the use of spectrum in the 900MHz and 1800MHz for online purchases of digital content and tangible goods: the ePrivacy bands to reflect full market value, following the completion of the Directive: and the evaluation of Commission Recommendation 4G auction.
From 31 October 2016 Vodafone UK will pay annual 2009 396 EU on the regulatory treatment of fixed and mobile fees of approximately 50 million for the spectrum.
An application termination rates in the EU.
has been made by Everything Everywhere EE to appeal this decision.
Vodafone has given notice of its intention to intervene in any The Commission are also planning a consultation on the review of safety resulting appeal.
of apps and other non-embedded software.
In May 2016 the European Commission competition authority Europe region DGCOMP announced its decision to prohibit the proposed Hutchison 3G acquisition of Telefonica UK O2.
Hutchinson 3G have the option Germany to appeal to the EUs General Court in Luxembourg.
In June 2015 Vodafone Germany acquired 110MHz out of the 270MHz made available in the spectrum auction.
This consisted of 2x10MHz In December 2015 Vodafone UK acquired 20MHz of 1400MHz of 700MHz band, 2x10MHz of 900MHz band, 1x20MHz of 1500MHz spectrum with an indefinite licence from Qualcomm.
band and 2x25MHz of 1800MHz band for a total of 2,091 million.
In January 2016 British Telecoms acquisition of mobile network Total auction bids amounted to 5,081 million.
operator EE received final approval from the UKs Competition and Markets Authority CMA.
183 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Regulation continued Unaudited information In February 2016 Ofcom released its initial conclusions following its In February 2016 the Dutch Supreme Court ruled on the Dutch Strategic Review of Digital Communications.
Ofcoms proposals include implementation of the EU Consumer Credit Directive and instalment requirements on BT to open up its network to competitors, reforming sales agreements a Dutch law concept, holding that bundled BT Openreachs governance and delivering better Quality of Service all-in mobile subscription agreements i. e. device along with for all customers.
Vodafone UK will continue to engage with Ofcom mobile services are considered consumer credit agreements.
as it implements these proposals including a consultation on Openreach As a result Vodafone Netherlands together with the industry has governance expected in summer 2016. been working with the Ministry of Finance and the Competition Authority on compliance requirements going forward for such Spain offers.
The ruling also has retrospective effect and a claim has been The fines applied to Telefnica, Orange and Vodafone Spain submitted by a claims organisation which is currently being reviewed in December 2012 for abuse of dominant position by imposing by Vodafone Netherlands.
excessive pricing of wholesale SMS MMS services on mobile virtual network operators MVNO, remain suspended until the judicial review Ireland is concluded.
In February 2016 further to Vodafone Irelands successful appeal in the High Court against the national regulatory authoritys ComReg interim In June 2015 in response to the national competition authoritys mobile termination rate MTR decision, ComReg published a revised CNMC conditional approval of Telefnicas acquisition of pay-TV MTR decision.
Effective from 1 September 2016 and based on a pure operator Distribuidora fide Televisin Digital DTS, Vodafone Spain Long Run Incremental Cost LRIC model, the MTR will be 0.84 appealed to the National Court.
The appeal required the adoption eurocents per minute.
ComReg confirmed that following discussions of precautionary measures to increase the amount of premium content with Vodafone Ireland they would drop their appeal to the Supreme made available to other operators from 50% to 75% and to include Court.
Vodafone Ireland has agreed to accept the new rate and drop the football within the same pricing mechanism as other premium content remaining related challenges outstanding before the High Court.
The National Court rejected the adoption of the precautionary measures on 18 April 2016.
Portugal In February 2016 the national regulatory authority ANACOM In January 2016 following a review of the regulatory ex ante price confirmed the renewal of Vodafone Portugals 2.1GHz spectrum squeeze test run on Telefnicas retail offers, CNMC issued a draft band with increased coverage obligations and additional reporting decision that proposes to modify the test to ensure it is capable commitments but without the requirement of an auction or licence fee.
of being replicated by other operators.
This was further to Vodafone The expiry date has been extended to 5 May 2033.
Spains submission to CNMCs surveillance procedure that called for action on the retail offers of Telefnica: the wholesale conditions In March 2016 ANACOM commenced a consultation into the of access: and the breach by Telefnica of its commitments.
3a Wholesale local access, 3b Wholesale central access and 4 Wholesale high-quality access markets.
In October 2015 DGCOMP approved Oranges proposed acquisition of Jazztel, based on an agreement that included, among other Romania provisions, the commitment to sell a certain amount of Jazztels fibreIn November 2015 the national regulatory authority ANCOM optic assets to Masmvil.
announced their decision to deregulate the wholesale local access market market 3a 2014, removing all of the fixed wholesale access In January 2016 Telefnica and Mediapro reached an agreement under regulations previously imposed on Telekom Romania, the former which Telefnica acquires the rights to broadcast the beIN Sports incumbent.
ANCOMs analysis concludes that the retail broadband LaLiga channel Spanish first division and Kings Cup Copa del Rey market in Romania is competitive and ex ante regulation at the and the beIN Sports channel Champions League and Europa League, wholesale level cannot be justified.
The decision was unopposed for the seasons 2016 17 to 2018 19, for a total amount of 2.4 billion.
Vodafone Spain challenged the exclusive nature of the agreement and, after obtaining CNMCs support, in February 2016 Mediapro initiated Greece a second round of talks where Vodafone Spain confirmed its interest In December 2015 Vodafone Greeces spectrum 2x56MHz at 2.6GHz to acquire the beIN Sports LaLiga channel on a non-exclusive basis and band licence expired.
To date, we await the Ministry of Infrastructure, the contract for the licence with Mediapro was signed on 5 April 2016.
Transport and Networks MITN to take the appropriate action for renewal, in the meantime Vodafone Greece continues to have access In March 2016 CNMC approved the resolution on wholesale regulation to the spectrum.
of broadband markets Markets 3a, 3b & 4, including NGA.
The MITN and the national regulatory authority, EETT where Netherlands currently the role of Chair is vacant have not commenced the formal The Dutch Government has renewed the existing 2.1GHz licences that procedure to determine price and the award process prior to the were due to expire by the end of 2016.
The renewal is for a period of four August 2016 expiration date of Vodafone Greeces 2x15MHz spectrum years 20172020, and provides an opportunity for a simultaneous at 1800MHz.
Czech Republic In October 2014 the Court of Appeal CBb decided to refer the In June 2015 the former fixed incumbent O2 Czech Republic was ongoing case of termination rates to the European Court of Justice split into two legally separate entities network and service company ECJ regarding the legal status of the recommendation to use pure but both entities are still controlled by the private investment fund PPF.
bottom up long run incremental cost BULRIC.
The CBb will be able to issue its final decision once it has received the ruling of the ECJ, which In February 2016 further to the national regulatory authority CTU is currently expected during the second half of 2016. consultation on the unsold 1800MHz and 2.6GHz spectrum from 2013, an auction was announced with bidding commencing in April 2016.
The auction for the 3.7GHz spectrum is due to commence in the second half of 2016.
Hungary Vodafone Hungary has no material items to report for 2016.
184 Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2016 Albania For information on litigation in India, see note 30 Contingent liabilities In March 2015 Vodafone M-Pesa was licensed as an e-money issuance and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements.
institution and has since been able to perform utility payments and Vodacom: South Africa money transfer services for its customers.
In March 2014 the High Court ruled in favour of Vodacom and MTN Between April and June 2015 Vodafone Albania secured spectrum for in their challenge to the national regulatory authoritys ICASA 2x1.8MHz of 900MHz band, 2x14.4MHz of 1800MHz and 2x20 20MHz decision on Call Termination Regulations CTR.
This led to ICASA of 2.6GHz band, allowing 4G services to be made available.
initiating another consultation process and in September 2014 they published the final CTR that reduces the rate to ZAR 0.13 cents per In September 2015 spectrum neutrality and reshuffling in the 1800MHz minute by October 2016.
In December 2014 Cell C served ICASA spectrum band was introduced.
including other interested parties such as Vodacom and MTN with Malta a notice of motion in terms of which it is seeking an order for the review In March 2014 the national regulatory authority MCA set the MTR and setting aside by the High Court, of the September 2014 CTRs.
Vodafone Malta has submitted an appeal Vodacom had filed a notice to oppose Cell Cs application.
This matter to the Administrative Review Tribunal on the basis that there was a lack was due to be heard from 7 March 2016 however Cell C withdrew of transparency in the consultation process.
In May 2014 the national competition authority CompCom Africa, Middle East and Asia-Pacific region confirmed its intention to proceed with the investigation into India an allegation by Cell C that Vodacom and MTN have abused their In February 2012 Vodafone India challenged the Department market dominance in contravention of section 8 of the Competition Act.
of Telecommunications DoT at the Telecom Tribunal on the financial Once the investigation is completed, the matter may be referred to the requirements for approving the transfer of Vodafone India telecom Competition Tribunal where Vodacom will have a further opportunity licenses that were held under seven subsidiary companies to create two to make its case.
telecom licensed companies Vodafone India Limited and its subsidiary In May 2014 Vodacom entered into a sale and purchase agreement Vodafone Mobile Services Limited.
Pleadings were completed on 6 April under which it would acquire 100% of the issued share capital of Neotel 2016 and the next hearing is due on 19 May 2016. as well as Neotels shareholder loans and liabilities.
The proposed In February 2015 the national regulatory authority TRAI announced acquisition of the majority of Neotels assets has been abandoned due its revised regulation on MTRs, reducing the rate from 20 paisa to 14 to regulatory complexities and certain conditions not being fulfilled.
paisa per minute for mobile termination and nil termination for calls In September 2015 further to its International Mobile originating from, or terminating on, a fixed line.
Vodafone India has Telecommunications IMT Radio Frequency Spectrum Assignment challenged TRAIs decision in the Delhi High Court and the hearing Plans RFSAP published in March 2015 ICASA published is due to commence in May 2016. an Information Memorandum IM on the prospective licensing In April 2015 TRAI launched a consultation on the regulatory framework of the 700MHz, 800MHz and 2.6GHz High Demand Spectrum bands.
for Over-The-Top OTT services and Net Neutrality and the completion The IM is a precursor to an Invitation to Apply ITA.
Vodacom has raised of that consultation is awaited.
In February 2016 TRAI issued a regulation its concerns that the IM does not provide sufficient detail on some of the prohibiting the charging of discriminatory tariffs on the basis of content critical aspects of the auction design and process.
In February 2016 the Department of Trade and Industry DTI published In March 2015 in the spectrum auction for 800MHz, 900MHz, 1800MHz the revised draft ICT Sector Code for consultation.
This code follows the and 2.1GHz bands, Vodafone India won spectrum in all six circles May 2015 implementation of the revised generic DTI Codes on Black where the existing spectrum was due for expiry in December 2015, Economic Empowerment BEE which saw a complete overhaul thus ensuring continuity of business.
It also won an additional 2.1GHz of the targets and requirements of the 2007 Codes, which included spectrum in six service areas.
The total auction spend by Vodafone India the removal of the recognition of ZAR7.5 billion rule for ownership and was INR 258 billion.
retention of 30% investing target that Vodacom must be compliant with to be eligible to bid in future Spectrum auctions.
The revised Codes In May 2015 the Supreme Court dismissed Vodafone Indias appeal are expected to be finalised in June 2016 and will be applicable to the against the DoTs refusal to extend its existing spectrum licences financial period of 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata.
Vodacom: Democratic Republic of Congo In September and October 2015 guidelines for Spectrum Sharing and In December 2015 the Government ordered all operators to disconnect Spectrum Trading were issued respectively.
In February 2016 all operators received In January 2016 TRAI submitted its recommendations to the DoT on the a non-compliance letter from the National Intelligence Agency, stating Valuation & Reserve price of Spectrum and DoTs decision is expected sanctions would be applied.
Vodacom DRC is suspending customers by the end of May 2016. with insufficient registration records and communicating to such customers the requirement to register to avoid disconnection.
To date, In February 2016 further to Prime Minister Narendra Modis allocation no sanctions have been imposed.
of budget for the Governments Digital India agenda, TRAI recommended a public-private partnership PPP build own operate transfer BOOT In September 2015 the national regulatory authority ARPTC retained model as the preferred means of the implementation strategy for the current on-net voice price floor at 5.1 US cents per minute and BharatNet the Governments national optic fibre network programme.
off net 8.5 US cents per minute set in March 2015 and extended the DoTs decision on the TRAI recommendation is awaited.
price floor to cover international outgoing calls and promotions until June 2016.
In May 2016 further to a challenge by the telecom operators, the Indian Supreme Court held that the order announced in October In December 2015 Vodacom Congos 2G licence was renewed with 2015 by TRAI, mandating MNOs to compensate customers for a ten-year extension taking the expiry date to 1 January 2028, together any call drops, was arbitrary, unreasonable and non-transparent with securing additional spectrum 2x5.8 1800MHz and 1x15 1900MHz.
Collectively, the licence and spectrum fees paid was US$22.5 million.
185 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Regulation continued Unaudited information Vodacom: Tanzania In May 2015 after the Electronic Trade Law came into force, secondary In February 2016 further to the gazetted final regulations which set legislation was finalised by both the Ministry of Customs and Trade out voluntary requirements for all telecommunications licensees MoCT and the ICTA.
Under the new regulations, operators will only to list a minimum of 20% of their ordinary share capital on the Dar be permitted to use their marketing database for operator related Stock Exchange to be held by Tanzanian investors, or make a onemarketing reasons.
Third parties were permitted to send one time SMSs off payment of 0.6% of gross revenues into an ICT development to mobile operators databases asking their customers to opt into their fund within 12 months of effective date of regulation, the Ministry database, up to and including 15 September 2015. of Communications commenced consultations with the industry In August 2015 the 4.5G IMT Advanced auction was completed onthegovernance, structure and payments into this fund.
grossing total revenue of 3.36 billion excluding taxes, compared In February 2016 the national regulatory authority TCRA approved to reserve prices of 2.3 billion.
Only three mobile operators bid for the Vodacom Tanzanias acquisition of Shared Networks Tanzania which spectrum bands and there were no bids for the 2.6GHz block reserved holds 2x5 900MHz spectrum which will be used to support provision for a fourth operator.
Vodafone Turkey paid a total of 778 million of rural services.
The national competition authoritys FCC approval for 82.8MHz 2x10MHz in the 800MHz band, 2x1.4MHz in 900MHz is still pending.
band, 2x10MHz in 1800MHz band, 2x15MHz FDD in the 2.6GHz band and 1x10MHz TDD in the 2.6GHz band.
The operators launched 4.5G In March 2016 TCRA commenced a Request for Proposal for services as of 1 April 2016. spectrum auction consultants which is required ahead of the planned 700MHz auction.
Australia The national regulatory authority ACMA has completed an auction Vodacom: Mozambique of up to 60MHz of regional 1800MHz spectrum to be made available In August 2015 following an announcement from the Minister in two to three years time currently allocated for fixed link wireless of Communications that unregistered customers must be disconnected, services.
Vodafone Australia acquired spectrum in many regional areas, a new registration regulation was introduced, which approved electronic including Canberra.
Subsequently, the operators and regulator agreed on a joint campaign and phased disconnection process to achieve complete After extensive lobbying by the industry, the Government is looking registration by November 2016. to undertake the most comprehensive overhaul of spectrum management in 15 years.
Vodafone Australia is advocating for A new communications bill is being reviewed by the Parliament.
The bill a framework that better considers the competition effects of spectrum introduces inter alia, a new electronic communications licence regime, policy 60% of regional spectrum is held by Telstra and the price regulation approval process, a competition law-based regulatory establishment of more market-orientated spectrum licences and regime, and new law enforcement powers.
a better renewal process and more flexible payment terms.
Vodacom: Lesotho Egypt In September 2015 the national regulatory authority LCA confirmed The Administrative Court ruling in favour of Vodafone Egypt in the in writing to Vodacom Lesotho that its service licence will be renewed case filed against Telecom Egypt and the national regulatory authority when it expires on 31 May 2016 at a cost of ZAR5 million.
NTRA, regarding the NTRAs authority to set MTRs between operators In February 2016 Vodacom Lesotho was awarded 2 x 20 1800MHz has been partially implemented with Orange Egypt formerly Mobinil spectrum to be used for Long-Term Evolution LTE.
and Telecom Egypt, however, an arbitration case is pending with Etisalat Misr.
International roaming in Africa In November 2014 East Africa Community EAC Ministers The implementation of the Unified License remains on hold.
The 4G of Communications met and set the national regulation authorities and fixed licence proposals are being developed by the NTRA and will NRAs the task to implement Phase 1 price caps for wholesale be presented for approval to the Egyptian Cabinet.
It was agreed that Phase1 For information on litigation in Egypt, see note 30 Contingent liabilities would be interim until Phase 2 Single Area Network regulation and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements.
is issued following a study to be conducted by the regulators for the region.
In November 2015, the Tanzania Ministry of Communications Ghana commenced a consultation on the Phase 1 price caps for EAC countries.
In December 2015 the national regulatory authority NCA conducted a spectrum auction in the 800MHz band.
Vodafone Ghana as well as the In September 2015 further to Southern African Development other four mobile network operators and three mobile broadband Community SADC Ministers of Communications requirements wireless access operators declined to participate in the auction on the that the NRAs implement international roaming wholesale and retail basis of the high reserve price.
five-year glide-paths, the Communications Regulators Association of Southern Africa CRASA issued Regulatory Guidance and Scancom Ghana trading as MTN Ghana was the only entity accompanying Policy.
The CRASA requested that NRAs implement to participate and submit bids in the auction.
MTN was therefore the glide-paths from 1 October 2015 and transparency measures awarded one of the blocks in the two lots of 2x10MHz at a reserve price in accordance with their applicable national law.
The policy recognised of US$67.5 million.
that the glide-paths should not take prices below underlying cost New Zealand and that member countries should take steps to reduce issues In March 2015 the New Zealand Government announced the which increase costs, notably taxes on international incoming calls.
expansion of the existing Ultra-fast Broadband fibre to the premises Vodacom is participating in the processes conducted by NRAs in SADC FTTP initiative from 75% to 80% of premises passed at a projected member states.
cost of between NZ$152 million and NZ$210 million.
In addition, Turkey the Government announced a further NZ$150 million of funding In March 2015 further to Vodafones letter of appeal in the administrative to improve broadband coverage in rural areas and address mobile court to the announcement by the national regulatory authority ICTA blackspots.
Competitive tenders for these initiatives are expected in August 2014 that the scope of the 3G coverage must be broadened to be completed in 2016. to include new metropolitan areas, the Council of State adopted a motion suspending the ICTAs action and the lawsuit is pending.
186 Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2016 Safaricom: Kenya Qatar Safaricom continues to operate on a periodically renewed trial licence In January 2016 Qatar underwent a significant government re-shuffle for the 2x15MHz 800MHz band spectrum granted in February 2015 at cabinet level resulting in the amalgamation of the Ministry until the national regulatory authority CA is ready to issue the of Information and Communications Technology with the Ministry full Commercial Licence.
The CA is also conducting a stakeholders of Transport and the replacement of the incumbent Telecoms Minister.
consultation on the allocation of LTE spectrum in the 800MHz band Vodafone Qatar is currently challenging decisions made by both the to all mobile operators.
previous Ministry and national regulatory authority NRA relating In August 2015 CA issued new subscriber regulations to the application and enforcement of the dominance framework.
to be implemented by February 2016.
Safaricom is working with the Preliminary decisions were issued in respect of all three actions in March authorities on revised timelines to ensure an effective transition to the 2016.
The action taken against the Ministry was rejected on technical new regime as the envisaged timeframe wasnt operationally feasible.
grounds with the Court declining to recognise the decision of the Ministry as a final administrative decision under the Administrative The CA has announced its intention to commission a study Law.
The two separate cases relating to subsequent decisions of the on competition within the telecommunications sector.
The date for the NRA have been reserved for further investigation and consideration.
commencement of the review has not been announced.
2 Blocks within the same spectrum band but with different licence expiry dates are separately identified.
3 UK 900MHz, 1800MHz and 2.1GHz indefinite licence with a five-year notice of revocation.
4 Hungary 900MHz and 1800MHz conditional options to extend these licences to 2034.
5 India comprises 22 separate service area licences with a variety of expiry dates.
6 Vodacoms South African spectrum licences are renewed annually.
As part of the migration to a new licensing regime the national regulator has issued Vodacom a service licence and a network licence which will permit Vodacom to offer mobile and fixed services.
The service and network licences have a twenty-year duration and will expire in 2028.
7 Vodacoms Lesotho spectrum licences are renewed annually, N. B.
8 Australia table refers to Sydney Melbourne only.
In total VHA has: 850MHz band 2x10MHz in Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth and 2x5MHz across the rest of Australia.
1800MHz band 2x30MHz in Sydney Melbourne, 2x25MHz in Brisbane Adelaide Perth Canberra, 2x10MHz in Victoria North Queensland Western Australia and 2x5MHz in Darwin Tasmania South Queensland.
2.1GHz band, VHA holds 2x25 MHz in Sydney Melbourne, 2x20MHz in Brisbane Adelaide Perth, 2x10MHz in Canberra Darwin Hobart and 2x5MHz in regional Australia.
9 Ghana The NRA has issued provisional licences with the intention of converting them to full licences once the NRA has been reconvened.
188 Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2016 Mobile Termination Rates MTRs National regulators are required to take utmost account of the Commissions existing recommendation on the regulation of fixed and MTRs.
This recommendation requires MTRs to be set using a long run incremental cost methodology.
2 MTRs established from 1 April 2016 are included at the current rate or where a glide-path or a final decision has been determined by the national regulatory authority.
3 MTR under review by ECJ and decision due after June 2016.
4 MTR under appeal and due to be heard 18 May 2016.
5 Please see Vodacom: South Africa on page 185.
