Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation The Company has transitioned from the previously extant UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP to Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced disclosure framework, FRS 101, for all periods presented.
The Company will continue to prepare its financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 on an ongoing basis until such time as it notifies shareholders of any change to its chosen accounting framework.
As required by FRS 101, Vodafone Group Plc notified its shareholders of the proposed change in its letter to shareholders in March 2016.
The Company financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities and in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
The following exemptions available under FRS 101 have been applied: a Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Shared-based payment details of the number and weighted-average exercise prices of share options, and how the fair value of goods or services received was determined : a IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: a Paragraph 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities : a Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements comparative information requirements in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1: a The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements: a 10 d statement of cash flows : a 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : a 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements : a 38B-D additional comparative information : a 40A-D requirements for a third statement of financial position : a 111 cash flow statement information : and a 134-136 capital management disclosures.
a IAS 7 Statement of cash flows: a Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective : a Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related party disclosures key management compensation : and a The requirements in IAS 24 Related party disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement of the Company is not presented in this Annual Report.
Theseseparate financial statements are not intended to give a true and fair view of the profit or loss or cash flows of the Company.
The Company hasnot published its individual cash flow statement as its liquidity, solvency and financial adaptability are dependent on the Group rather than its own cash flows.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of Company financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Company financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The key area of judgement that has the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements is the review for impairment of investment carrying values.
Significant accounting policies applied in the current reporting period that relate to the financial statements as a whole Foreign currencies The Companys financial statements are presented in sterling, which is its functional currency.
With effect from 1 April 2016 the functional currency of the Company changed from sterling to the euro and its presentation currency will also change from sterling to euro.
The euro is now the primary currency in which the Companys financing activities and investment returns are denominated.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional rate of currency prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the Companys functional currency at the rates prevailing on the reporting period date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the initial transaction dates.
Non-monetary items measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income statement for the period.
