Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts Significant accounting policies The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed The Restaurant Group plc the Company is a company on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are incorporated and registered in Scotland.
The consolidated recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the financial statements of the Company for the year ended revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision 1 January 2017 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries and future periods if the revision affects both current and together referred to as the Group.
a Statement of compliance Future accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs and its interpretations adopted by the International IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective and Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU: European Union.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with b Going concern basis Customers The consolidated financial statements have been prepared IFRS 16 Leases on the going concern basis as, after making appropriate IFRS 2 amendments Classification and Measurement enquires, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that of Share-based Payment the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational Transactions existence for the foreseeable future at the time of approving IAS 7 amendments Disclosure Initiative the financial statements.
The principal risks and uncertainties IAS 12 amendments Recognition of Deferred Tax facing the Group and further comments on going concern Assets for Unrealised Losses are set out in the report of the Directors.
IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets amendments between an Investor and its c Basis of preparation Associate or Joint Venture The accounting year runs to a Sunday within seven days of 31 December each year which will be a 52 or 53 week period.
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above will have a material impact on the The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded financial statements of the Group in future periods, except to the nearest thousand.
They have been prepared on the as noted below: historical cost basis except derivative financial instruments which are held at their fair value.
Non-current assets and IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount of financial instruments: and fair value less costs to sell.
IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures: and The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates IFRS 16 will have material impact on the reported assets, and assumptions that affect the application of policies and liabilities, income statement and cash flows of the Group.
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and Furthermore, extensive disclosures will be required by expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are IFRS 16. based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide results of which form the basis of making the judgments about a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily a detailed review has been completed.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
66 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements d Basis of consolidation f Derivative financial instruments i Subsidiaries The Group uses derivative financial instruments, where Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control appropriate, to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, from operational, financing and investment activities.
In to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting convertible are taken into account, regardless of are accounted for as trading instruments.
managements intention to exercise that option or warrant.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at consolidated financial statements from the date that control cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial commences until the date that control ceases.
instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in ii Associates the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for Associates are those entities in which the Group has hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss significant influence, but not control, over the financial and depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The consolidated financial statements does not currently hold any derivative financial instruments.
include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount date that significant influence commences until the date that that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap amount would be reduced to nil and recognition of further counterparties.
losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made g Property, plant and equipment payments on behalf of an associate.
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation see accounting policy l. Intragroup balances and any gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated of property, plant and equipment.
to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
The owner-occupied properties excluding land element e Foreign currency acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less balance sheet.
Transactions in foreign currencies are accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date see accounting policy l. Lease payments are accounted for of the transaction.
The profit and loss accounts for overseas as described in accounting policies.
operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for the periods covered by the accounts.
Exchange differences Subsequent costs that relate to the net equity investment in overseas activities The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of are taken directly to reserves.
property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 67 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued Depreciation k Cash and cash equivalents Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part deposits and debit and credit card payments received within of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on useful lives are as follows: demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash Freehold land Indefinite equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Freehold buildings 50 years Long and short leasehold property Term of lease or l Impairment 50 years, whichever The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed is lower annually to determine whether there is any indication of Fixtures and equipment 3-10 years impairment.
Motor vehicles 4 years Computer equipment 3-5 years For property, plant and equipment, the carrying value of each cash generating unit CGU is compared to its estimated value h Intangible assets Goodwill in use.
Value in use calculations are based on discounted cash All business combinations are accounted for by applying the flows over the remaining useful life of the CGU between 2 and acquisition method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on 50 years.
The discount rate used is the rate believed by the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
Board to reflect the risks associated with each CGU.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net For goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life, the identifiable assets acquired.
recoverable amount is estimated annually.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or The classification and accounting treatment of business its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 has not Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS and are not subsequently reversed.
All goodwill stated on the balance sheet at 1 January 2004. balance sheet relates to the acquisition of Blubeckers Limited and Brunning and Price Limited and is included in the Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment impairment analysis of the Pub restaurant business conducted losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is at each balance sheet date.
formally tested for impairment annually see accounting policy l. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill m Share-based payment transactions is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the The share option programme allows Group employees to associate.
acquire shares of the Company and all options are equitysettled.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an Any excess of fair value of net assets over consideration on employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
acquisition are recognised directly in the income statement.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally i Trade and other receivables entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less measured using a Stochastic model, taking into account the impairment losses see accounting policy l. terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect j Stock the actual number of share options that vest except where Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
forfeiture is only due to market based conditions not achieving Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the the threshold for vesting.
ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
68 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements n Provisions s Expenses A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the i Operating lease payments Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result Payments made under operating leases are recognised in of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect of the lease.
Incentives to enter into an operating lease are is material, provisions are determined by discounting the also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term as expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects a reduction in rental expense.
current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
ii Finance lease payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the o Deferred and current tax finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit at The finance charge is allocated to each period during the the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Temporary iii Pre-opening expenses differences are differences between the carrying amount of Property rentals and related costs incurred up to the date the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
of opening of a new restaurant are written off to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Promotional Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected and training costs are written off to the income statement in to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences the period in which they are incurred.
are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that are enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
iv Borrowing costs Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Debt is stated net of borrowing costs which are spread over the term of the loan.
All other borrowings costs are recognised p Pensions in the income statement in the period in which they are The Group makes contributions for eligible workers into incurred.
defined contribution pension plans and these contributions are charged to the income statement as they become payable.
t Dividend policy The Group does not operate any defined benefit plans.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are q Onerous contracts not recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date, and A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the are recognised in the financial statements when they have expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract received approval by shareholders.
are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
u Commercial discount policy Commercial discounts represent a reduction in cost of goods r Revenue and services in accordance with negotiated supplier Revenue represents amounts received and receivable for contracts, the majority of which are based on purchase services and goods provided excluding value added tax volumes.
Commercial discounts are recognised in the period and voluntary gratuities left by customers for the benefit of in which they are earned and to the extent that any variable employees and is recognised at the point of sale.
Where targets have been achieved in that financial period.
Costs the Group operates a Concession unit under a franchise associated with commercial discounts are recognised in the agreement, it acts as principal in this trading arrangement.
period in which they are incurred.
All revenue from franchise arrangements is recognised by the Group at the point of sale and licencing fees are recorded in cost of sales as the goods are sold.
The Group does not act as a franchisor in any trading relationship.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 69 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued Critical accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies as described above, management has made a number of judgements and estimations of which the following are the most significant: a Impairment of loan note due The Group has an outstanding long-term receivable of 3.3m from BH Restaurants Limited.
As a result of a detailed trading review of the business, the Board has made full provision against the loan note due further details are provided in note 13.
Key areas of estimation uncertainty a Impairment of property, plant and equipment The Group formally determines whether property, plant and equipment are impaired by considering indicators of impairment annually.
This requires the Group to determine the lowest level of assets which generate largely independent cash flows cash generating units or CGU and to estimate the value in use of these assets or CGUs: and compare these to their carrying value.
Cash generating units are deemed to be individual units or a cluster of units depending on the nature of the trading environment in which they operate.
Calculating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the future cash flows of each CGU and to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The discount rate used in the year ended 1 January 2017 for all CGUs was based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 10.6% year ended 27 December 2015: 8.1% as the Directors believe there are broadly equal risks associated with each CGU.
b Onerous contract provisions and costs associated with estate review The amount provided is based on the future rental obligations, net of any expected sub-lease income.
In addition, estimates have been made with respect to legal & other associated exit costs as well as an evaluation of the cost of void period prior to sublet and the value of lease incentive which may be required to be paid as part of the sublet process.
In determining the provision, the cash flows have been discounted on a pre-tax basis using based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 10.6%.
Significant assumptions are used in making these calculations and changes in assumptions and future events could cause the value of these provisions to change.
70 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016
