Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic review We have delivered growth in our investment portfolio of 20% Our portfolio is well placed tocapture rental growth once newdevelopments recommence JONATHAN MURPHY FINANCE DIRECTOR This year, our growth has been achieved Building scale Underlying profit predominantly through single asset Assura continues to grow profitably.
purchases and without the benefit of large In the year we completed 141 million of scale portfolio acquisitions as in prior years.
property additions, which was the largest 28.3m This has been achieved through targeted contributor to the 184 million increase marketing and promotional activities that ininvestment property in the year.
This up 78% focused on those medical centres that has enabled our rent roll to grow by 15% represent the key premises in their local to 63.8 million.
In turn, this has been Dividends paid health economy.
passed on to a 78% growth in underlying profit to 28.3 million and 89% growth in dividends paid in the year to 27.2 million.
Driving investment in primary 27.2m care property The attractiveness of our sector is The equity fund raise of 300 million, net up 89% becomingmore widely understood of expenses, in October 2015 was key to andassuch Assuras portfolio expansion delivering this substantial investment.
We has been achieved against a backdrop are grateful to our shareholders for their ofanincreasingly competitive market.
support and the level of investor demand Ourstrong brand recognition, substantial enabled us to secure an increase in our experience in the sector and our reputation equity base of 60%.
in the GP community have allowed us to successfully secure these opportunities.
The Since the fund raise we have been focused primary care property market remains highly on the stated twin objectives of making fragmented.
Ourportfolio of 321 medical further additions to our property portfolio centres compares with a total UK market of and reducing our borrowings.
A large number of October we have secured further property these buildings would not meet our exacting additions of 79 million at a yield on cost of investment criteria, although there remains 5.1% and a weighted average unexpired asignificant number of potential individual lease term of 20.3 years.
Inaddition to the asset acquisition opportunities.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 9 Strategic review continued completed transactions we also have a Delivering long-term Rental income further pipeline of individual development The key driver of our property return is outperformance in opportunities and acquisitions of more than the income from our long-term leases, propertyreturns 134 million.
and in the year, rental growth was 1.2% The enlarged property portfolio has from settled rent reviews, ahead of CPI delivered a Total Property Return of Our second key objective was to inflation at 0.6%.
Assura is a constituent of the IPD reduceour borrowings and we revised are on an open market basis, set by All Healthcare Index and over the last five our target loan to value range to between reference to rental awards agreed with years we have delivered a return of 8.8% 40% and 50%.
Since we closed the the District Valuer on new schemes.
This against the index of 6.9%.
This level of year at 30%, this provides us with the means that they are influenced by land consistent outperformance over a long financial flexibility to take advantage and construction cost inflation over the period is a testament to the skills and of future acquisition and development medium term.
Over recent years there dedication of our property team and opportunities.
We plan to maintain this has been significant inflation in these to the specialist knowledge we have target range over the medium term.
costs, but this increased cost is not yet in our sector.
fully reflected in our passing rents as the slowdown in new schemes has reduced In November 2015 we negotiated the Our 321 medical centres have a rent roll redemption of 181 million of long-term, the evidence of that inflation.
of 63.8 million with a geographically fixed rate loans with Aviva, with an diverse portfolio serving in excess average interest rate of 5.4%.
This was Our portfolio is well placed to capture of3million patients.
Our investment achieved with associated break costs this rental growth once new developments approach is to identify those assets of34 million, which were significantly recommence and this gives us confidence webelieve are best in class in their local below our initial estimated costs of for the medium term prospects for rental catchment areas.
At the year end we had growth in our sector.
assets that provide a broad range of borrowings of 373 million with an services to their local communities, average interest rate of 4.8% and Capital growth webelieve these will provide greater aweighted maturity of 10.2 years.
prospects for lease renewal on expiry The balance of the return is generated from capital growth, which has seen a and so drive greater property returns One of our stated intentions from the overthe long term.
like-for-like valuation growth of 4.8% in fund raise was to enable improvements the past year.
This increase has primarily inboth terms and pricing for future funding.
come from a movement in yields with our A good example of this approach The increased scale and balance sheet net equivalent yield moving by 25 basis canbeseen in our acquisition of strength of the business makes us more points in the past year.
This centre attractive to capital markets and to a moderate repricing over the past year serves 30,000 patients and contains broader range of both bank and nonstillleaves our yields maintaining a 61consulting rooms, an education bankfunders.
premium over fixed return gilts in suiteandfully furnished operating excessof 330 basis points.
Thisinfrastructure supports After the year end, we secured a new abroad range of services including 200 million unsecured revolving credit pharmacy, opticians and mental health facility with a club of four banks.
This services inaddition to the GP practices.
unsecured facility replaces our existing 120 million facility and will provide us For key properties, we are not afraid with the maximum operational flexibility toacquire shorter leases, and use our together with a significant saving on property skills to redevelop or enhance transaction costs in financing properties.
the premises, whilst seeking to regear This has been achieved at an initial the lease to a longer period.
margin of 150 basis points, at a rate of2.09%, significantly below that of theAviva debt that it partially replaces.
10 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements We also add value through developing Our team of portfolio and investment EPRA cost ratio properties ourselves rather than relying managers has responsibility for solely on third party developers and identifying value enhancing asset managers.
We completed one development management opportunities, such as 16.5% during the year at a total development cost lease extensions and redevelopments of 3.8 million.
This has added 0.3 million within our existing estate, as well as to our annual rent roll.
development capability gives us the Total Property Return opportunity to source new premises at This structure enables us to ensure levels significantly cheaper than we could thatwe can maximise the efficiency with achieve through purchasing completed which we can translate increased rental 8.9% properties from developers.
On a typical income into underlying profit and hence scheme we are able to source a dividends.
In the year we have delivered development at a 1% higher yield on cost 78% growth in underlying profit to than for an equivalent property acquired in 28.3million.
This has been achieved the investment market.
In addition, by being from 20% growth in our investment involved as a developer, long-term landlord property value and a reduction in our and asset manager we are able to build EPRA Cost Ratio from 17.7% to 16.5%.
effective long-term relationships with our GPs and this provides us with a unique The overall impact of all of these factors positioning and market insight in our sector.
has enabled us to increase our dividends paid by 89% from 14.4 million The level of development expenditure in to 27.2 million.
the year is significantly below the levels we would normally expect.
This reflects Developing our people the reduced level of developments across One of our core strategic priorities is the sector, although we have sourced enhancing our business culture and we three new developments under forward are committed to the development and funding agreements bringing the value training of our people.
We have a small ofcompletions during the year to head office team of 34 people and crucial 16.4million.
We remain positive that the to our success is developing the skills of substantial requirement for investment in our team.
We have eight people currently primary care infrastructure will lead to an undergoing formal training.
We have increase in developments in the future.
strengthened the team in the year through the recruitment of Orla Ball as Company Maximising operational Secretary and In-House Counsel.
efficiency The 141 million of property additions have been incorporated by our in-house property management team whilst maintaining our continued focus on tenantsatisfaction.
In our annual tenant satisfaction survey over 90% of our tenants said they would recommend us as potential landlords to other GPs.
Our GPs remain our greatest source of referrals for new business.
We remain focused on understanding their evolving needs and demands, so we can be at the forefront ofthe significant investment required inimproving premises in the future.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 11
