Strategic report Governance Financial statements Glossary Direct Property Costs comprise Gross Rental Income is the gross Adjusted Earnings per Ordinary Share fromContinuing Operations ground rents payable under head leases, accounting rent receivable.
void costs, other direct irrecoverable Adjusted EPS is the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent adjusted property expenses, rent review fees Group is Assura plc and its subsidiaries.
for non-recurring items including goodwill impairment, revaluation losses on IFRS is International Financial derivative financial instruments including District Valuer DV is the District ReportingStandards as adopted associates and movements in deferred Valuer Service being the commercial arm bytheEuropean Union.
tax divided by theweighted average ofthe Valuation Office Agency VOA.
number of shares inissueduring Itprovides professional property advice Interest Cover is the number of theperiod.
across the public sector and in respect timesnet interest payable is covered ofprimary healthcare represents NHS byunderlying profit before net interest.
Average Debt Maturity is each bodies on matters of valuation, rent reviews trancheof Group debt multiplied by and initial rents on new developments.
Interest Rate Swap is a contract to theremaining period toits maturity and exchange fixed payments for floating theresult divided by total Group debt Dividend Cover is the number of times payments linked to aninterest rate, and inissue attheyear end.
the dividend payable on an annual basis isgenerally used to manage exposure is covered by underlying profit.
Average Interest Rate is the Group loan interest and derivative costs per Earnings per Ordinary Share from IPD is the Investment Property Databank annum at the year end, divided by total Continuing Operations EPS is the Limited which provides performance Group debt in issue atthe year end.
profit attributable to equity holders of the analysis formost types of real estate and parent divided by the weighted average produces an independent benchmark number of shares in issue during the period.
BPF is the British Property Federation ofproperty returns.
which is the membership organisation, and the voice, of the UK real estate industry.
European Public Real Estate IPD Healthcare is the Investment Association EPRA is the industry Property Databanks UK Annual Building Research Establishment bodyfor European REITs.
Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM assesses the sustainability EPRA Net Asset Value EPRA NAV IPD Total Return is calculated as the ofbuildings against a range of criteria.
is the balance sheet net assets excluding change incapital value, less any capital own shares held, mark to market expenditure incurred, plus net income, Clinical Commissioning Groups derivative financial instruments including expressed as a percentage of capital CCGs arethe groups of GPs and associates and deferredtaxation.
employed over the period, as calculated other healthcare professionals that took by IPD.
over commissioning ofprimary and EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV secondary healthcare from PCTsin adjusted to reflect the fair value of debt London Interbank Offered Rate England with effect 1 April 2013. and derivatives.
LIBOR is the interest rate charged by one bank to another for lending money.
Equivalent Yield true and nominal is a weighted average of the Net Initial Yield Local Improvement Finance Trusts Consumer Price Index CPI and Reversionary Yield and represents LIFT are public-private consortia that isanofficial measure of the general the return aproperty will produce based develop primarycare and community levelofinflation as reflected in the upon the timing ofthe income received.
weighted average of prices of a basket The true equivalent yieldassumes rents ofconsumer goods and services such are received quarterly inadvance.
The Loan to Value LTV is the ratio of astransportation, food, clothing, etc.
nominal equivalent assumes rents are netdebt tothe total value of property CPIis commonly calculated on a monthly received annually in arrears.
Estimated Rental Value ERV is Mark to Market MtM is the Debt Service Cover is the number theexternal valuers opinion as to the difference between the book value of oftimes net interest payable plus debt open market rent which, on the date of anasset or liability and its market value.
amortisation is covered by underlying valuation, could reasonably be expected profit before net interest.
to be obtained on anew letting or rent review of a property.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 123 Glossary continued Rent Reviews take place at intervals Total Shareholder Return TSR Net Initial Yield is the annualised rentsgenerated by an asset, after agreed inthe lease typically every three isthe combination of dividends paid years and theirpurpose is usually to toshareholders and the net movement thededuction of anestimate of annual recurring irrecoverable property outgoings, adjust the rent to thecurrent market inthe share price during the year.
It is levelat the review date.
calculated as the movement in the share expressed as a percentage ofthe asset valuation after notional purchasers costs.
price for the period plus the dividends paid, divided by the opening share price.
Development properties are not included.
Rent Roll is the passing rent being the total ofall the contracted rents reserved Net Rental Income is the rental income under theleases.
Underlying Profit is the pre-tax earnings receivable in the period after payment of measure adjusted for non-cash fair value direct property costs.
Net rental income adjustments and non-recurring items Reversionary Yield is the anticipated is quoted on an accounting basis.
suchasrevaluation gains, revaluation yield, which the initial yield will rise to ofderivatives, share-based payment once the rent reaches the ERV and when charge and gains on sale of property.
NHS Property Services Limited the property is fully let.
It is calculated NHS PropCo is the company, wholly bydividing the ERV by thevaluation.
owned and funded by the Department Weighted Average Unexpired Lease ofHealth, which, asof 1 April 2013, has Term WAULT is the average lease Retail Price Index RPI is an official taken on all property obligations formerly measure of the general level of inflation term remaining to first break, or expiry, borne by the PCTs.
across the portfolio weighted by asreflected in the retail price of a basket ofgoods and services such as energy, contracted rental income.
Primary Care Property is the property food, petrol, housing, household goods, travelling fares, etc.
RPI is commonly Yield on cost is the estimated annual occupied by health services providers who actas the principal point of consultation computed on a monthly and annual basis.
rent of a completed development divided by the total cost of development including forpatients such as GP practices, dental practices, community pharmacies and high site value and finance costs expressed RPI Linked Leases are those leases asa percentage return.
which have rent reviews which are linked to changes inthe RPI.
Property Income Distribution PID Yield shift is a movement usually is the required distribution of income expressed in basis points in the yield of Total Accounting Return is the overall asdividends under the REIT regime.
aproperty asset, or like-for-like portfolio return generated by the Group including Itiscalculated as 90% ofexempted over a given period.
Yield compression the impact of debt.
It is calculated as netincome.
isa commonly-used termfora reduction themovement on EPRA NAV for the inyields.
yearplus the dividends paid, divided Real Estate Investment Trust bythe opening EPRA NAV.
REIT is a listed property company which qualifies for and has elected into Total Property Return is the overall atax regime, which exempts qualifying return generated by properties on a debt UK profits, arising from property rental free basis.
It is calculated as the net rental income and gains on investment property income generated by the portfolio plus disposals, from corporation tax, but thechange in market values, divided by requires thedistribution of a PID.
opening property assets plus additions.
Forward-looking statements This document contains certain statements that are neither reported financial results nor other historical information.
These statements areforward-looking in nature and are subject to risks anduncertainties.
Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in orimpliedby these statements.
Manyof these risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond Assurasability to control or estimate precisely, such as future market conditions, thebehaviour of other market participants, the actions of governmental regulators and other risk factors such astheCompanys ability to continue to obtainfinancing to meet its liquidity needs, changes in the political, social and regulatory framework in which theCompany operates or in economic or technological trends or conditions, including inflation and consumer confidence, ona global, regional ornational basis.
Readers are cautioned not to placeundue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak onlyas of the date of thisdocument.
Assura does not undertake any obligation topublicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements toreflect events orcircumstances after the date of this document.
Information contained in this document relating to the Company should not berelied upon as aguide to future performance.
124 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
