Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 March 2016 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Big Yellow Group PLC is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is 2 The Deans, Bridge Road, Bagshot, Surrey, GU19 5AT.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the Strategic Report on pages 14 to 19.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation of financial statements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union in accordance with EU law IAS regulation EC1606 2002 and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling, being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Unless otherwise stated, figures are rounded to the nearest thousand.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except as described in the following sections.
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year, but have not had a material impact on the Group: Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2010-2012 Annual Improvements to IFRSs Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2011-2013 Annual Improvements to IFRSs New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective and had not yet been adopted by the EU: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between and Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs There are no standards and interpretations in issue but not yet adopted which, in the opinion of the Directors, will have a material effect on the reported income or net assets of the Group or Company.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain investment properties and financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied consistently to the results, other gains and losses, assets, liabilities and cash flows of entities included in the consolidated financial statements in the current and preceding year, are set out below: Going concern A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out on in the Strategic Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow statement and accompanying notes to the financial statements.
Further information concerning the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in the Strategic Report and in the notes to the financial statements.
After reviewing Group and Company cash balances, borrowing facilities, forecast valuation movements and projected cash flows, the Directors believe that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
In reaching this conclusion the Directors have had regard to the Groups operating plan and budget for the year ending 31 March 2017 and projections contained in the longer term business plan which covers the period to March 2020.
The Directors have considered carefully the Groups trading performance and cash flows as a result of the uncertain global economic environment and the other principal risks to the Groups performance, and are satisfied with the Groups positioning.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
93 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2016 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company made up to 31 March each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to direct the relevant activities of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The Group consolidates the financial results and balance sheets of Big Yellow Group PLC and all of its subsidiaries at the year end using acquisition accounting principles.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Any costs directly attributable to the business combination are recognised in the income statement.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Investment in subsidiaries These are recognised at cost less provision for any impairment.
Investment in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of associates to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Where a Group Company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income and is not subsequently reversed.
The goodwill in the balance sheet has an indefinite useful economic life.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts derived from the provision of services which fall within the Groups ordinary activities after deduction of trade discounts and any applicable value added tax.
Income is recognised over the period for which the storage room is occupied by the customer on a straight-line basis.
The Group recognises non-storage income on a straight-line basis over the period in which it is earned.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Management fees earned are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period for which the services are provided.
Fees earned from associates are recognised in full in the income statement through revenue with the proportionate debit shown in the share of profit of associate.
Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability.
The aggregate benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Borrowings Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying value amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Finance costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they are incurred, unless the costs are incurred as part of the development of a qualifying asset, when they will be capitalised.
Commencement of capitalisation is the date when the Group incurs expenditure for the qualifying asset, incurs borrowing costs and undertakes activities that are necessary to prepare the assets for their intended use when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
In the case of suspension of activities during extended periods, the Group suspends capitalisation.
The Group ceases capitalisation of borrowing costs when substantially all of the activities necessary to prepare the asset for use are complete.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after gains and losses on surplus land, movements on the revaluation of investment properties and before the share of results of associates, investment income and finance costs.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from the net profit as reported in the statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the statement of comprehensive income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Plant, equipment and owner occupied property All property, plant and equipment, not classified as investment property, is carried at historic cost less depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land and investment properties, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Freehold property 50 years Leasehold improvements Over period of the lease Plant and machinery 10 years Motor vehicles 4 years Fixtures and fittings 5 years Computer equipment 3 to 5 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
95 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2016 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Investment property The criteria used to distinguish investment property from owner-occupied property is to consider whether the property is held for rental income and for capital appreciation.
Where this is the case, the Group recognises these owned or leased properties as investment properties.
Investment property is initially recognised at cost and revalued at the balance sheet date to fair value as determined by professionally qualified external valuers.
In accordance with IAS 40, investment property held as a leasehold is stated gross of the recognised finance lease liability.
Gains or losses arising from the changes in fair value of investment property are included in the statement of comprehensive income of the period in which they arise.
In accordance with IAS 40, as the Group uses the fair value model, no depreciation is provided in respect of investment properties including integral plant.
Leasehold properties that are leased under operating leases are classified as investment properties and included in the balance sheet at fair value.
The obligation to the lessor for the buildings element of the leasehold is included in the balance sheet at the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception, and is shown within note 21.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the outstanding lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Investment property under construction Investment property under construction is initially recognised at cost and revalued at the balance sheet date to fair value as determined by professionally qualified external valuers.
Gains or losses arising from the changes in fair value of investment property under construction are included in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Surplus land Surplus land, which can include assets held for development and future sale, is recognised at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Any gains and losses on surplus land are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income.
Impairment of assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets net selling price and its value-in-use i. e. the net present value of its future cash flows discounted at the Groups average pre-tax interest rate that reflects the borrowing costs and risk for the asset.
Inventories Inventories, representing the cost of packing materials, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on re-measurement recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the other gains and losses line item in the income statement.
A Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of interest rates.
The Group uses interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The policy in respect of interest rates is to maintain a balance between flexibility and the hedging of interest rate risk.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently reviewed at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate derivatives at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the forward curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
The Group has not adopted hedge accounting.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
B Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued C Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
D Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
The carrying amounts of these assets approximates to the fair value.
E Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
F Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
G Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Retirement benefit costs Pension costs represent contributions payable to defined contribution schemes and are charged as an expense to the statement of comprehensive income as they fall due.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the share-based payment is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes model and excludes the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recovered in profit and loss such that the cumulative expenses reflects the revised estimate with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is re-measured, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described above, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Estimate of fair value of Investment Properties and Investment Property Under Construction critical accounting estimate The Groups self storage centres and stores under development are valued using a discounted cash flow methodology which is based on projections of net operating income.
The Group employs expert external valuers, Cushman & Wakefield LLP, who report on the values of the Groups stores on an annual basis.
The stores within the Armadillo Partnerships are valued by Jones Lang LaSalle.
Principal assumptions underlying the estimation of the fair value are those related to: stabilised occupancy levels: the absorption period to these stabilised levels: expected future growth in storage rents, ancillary income and operating costs: maintenance requirements: capitalisation rates and discount rates.
A more detailed explanation of the background and methodology adopted in the valuation of the Groups investment properties is set out in note 14 to the accounts.
