Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2016 14.
There has been no transfer to or from Level 3 in the year.
The wholly owned freehold and leasehold investment properties have been valued at 31 March 2016 by external valuers, Cushman & Wakefield LLP C&W.
The valuation has been carried out in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards, published by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors the Red Book.
The valuation of each of the investment properties and the investment properties under construction has been prepared on the basis of either Fair Value or Fair Value as a fully equipped operational entity, having regard to trading potential, as appropriate.
The valuation has been provided for accounts purposes and as such, is a Regulated Purpose Valuation as defined in the Red Book.
In compliance with the disclosure requirements of the Red Book, C&W have confirmed that: One of the members of the RICS who has been a signatory to the valuations provided to the Group for the same purposes as this valuation, has done so since September 2004.
This is the first occasion on which the other member has been a signatory: C&W have been carrying out this annual valuation for the same purposes as this valuation on behalf of the Group since September 2004: C&W do not provide other significant professional or agency services to the Group: In relation to the preceding financial year of C&W, the proportion of the total fees payable by the Group to the total fee income of the firm is less than 5%: and The fee payable to C&W is a fixed amount per store, and is not contingent on the appraised value.
Market uncertainty C&Ws valuation report comments on valuation uncertainty resulting from low liquidity in the market for self storage property.
C&W note that in the UK since Q1 2013 there have only been six transactions involving multiple assets and 13 single asset transactions.
C&W state that due to the lack of comparable market information in the self storage sector, there is greater uncertainty attached to their opinion of value than would be anticipated during more active market conditions.
Brexit Risk The UK is set to hold a referendum on 23 June on whether or not to remain a member of the European Union.
C&Ws valuation report comments on reduced transaction volumes in the real estate markets in the run up to the referendum date and, should the vote be for the UK to exit, then they expect there to be continued uncertainty in the real estate markets as the UK renegotiates its relationships with the EU and other nations.
VALUATION OF INVESTMENT PROPERTY continued Portfolio Premium C&Ws valuation report further confirms that the properties have been valued individually but that if the portfolio was to be sold as a single lot or in selected groups of properties, the total value could differ significantly.
C&W state that in current market conditions they are of the view that there could be a material portfolio premium.
Valuation methodology C&W have adopted different approaches for the valuation of the leasehold and freehold assets as follows: Freehold and long leasehold The valuation is based on a discounted cash flow of the net operating income over a ten year period and notional sale of the asset at the end of the tenth year.
Net operating income is based on projected revenue received less projected operating costs together with a central administration charge of 6% of the estimated annual revenue subject to a cap and a collar.
The initial net operating income is calculated by estimating the net operating income in the first 12 months following the valuation date.
The net operating income in future years is calculated assuming either straight-line absorption from day one actual occupancy or variable absorption over years one to four of the cash flow period, to an estimated stabilised mature occupancy level.
In the valuation the assumed stabilised occupancy level for the 71 trading stores both freeholds and leaseholds open at 31 March 2016 averages 81.9% 31 March 2015: 81.1%.
The projected revenues and costs have been adjusted for estimated cost inflation and revenue growth.
The average time assumed for the 71 stores to trade at their maturity levels is 20 months 31 March 2015: 24 months.
C. The capitalisation rates applied to existing and future net cash flow have been estimated by reference to underlying yields for industrial and retail warehouse property, yields for other trading property types such as student housing and hotels, bank base rates, ten year money rates, inflation and the available evidence of transactions in the sector.
The valuation included in the accounts assumes rental growth in future periods.
If an assumption of no rental growth is applied to the external valuation, the net initial yield pre-administration expenses for the 71 stores is 6.5% 31 March 2015: 6.4% rising to a stabilised net yield pre-administration expenses of 7.2% 31 March 2015: 7.4%.
D. The future net cash flow projections including revenue growth and cost inflation have been discounted at a rate that reflects the risk associated with each asset.
The weighted average annual discount rate adopted for both freeholds and leaseholds is 9.9% 31 March 2015: 10.4%.
E. Purchasers costs in the range of 6.1% to circa 6.8% see below have been assumed initially, reflecting the new progressive SLDT rates brought into force in March 2016 and sale plus purchasers costs totalling circa 7.1% to 7.8% are assumed on the notional sales in the tenth year in relation to the freehold stores.
Short leasehold The same methodology has been used as for freeholds, except that no sale of the assets in the tenth year is assumed but the discounted cash flow is extended to the expiry of the lease.
The average unexpired term of the Groups six short leasehold properties is 15.5 years 31 March 2015: 16.5 years unexpired.
Investment properties under construction C&W have valued the stores in development adopting the same methodology as set out above but on the basis of the cash flow projection expected for the store at opening and after allowing for the outstanding costs to take each scheme from its current state to completion and full fit-out.
C&W have allowed for holding costs and construction contingency, as appropriate.
Three schemes do not yet have planning consent and C&W have reflected the planning risk in their valuation.
Immature stores: value uncertainty C&W have assessed the value of each property individually.
However, two of the Groups stores are relatively immature and have low initial cash flows.
C&W have endeavoured to reflect the nature of the cash flow profile for these properties in their valuation, and the higher associated risks relating to the as yet unproven future cash flows, by adjustment to the capitalisation rates and discount rates adopted.
However, immature low cash flow stores of this nature are rarely, if ever, traded individually in the market, unless as part of a distressed sale or similar situation.
Although, there is more evidence of immature low cash flow stores being traded as part of a group or portfolio transaction.
Please note C&Ws comments in relation to market uncertainty in the self storage sector due to the lack of comparable market transactions and information.
The degree of uncertainty relating to the two immature stores is greater than in relation to the balance of the properties due to there being even less market evidence that might be available for more mature properties and portfolios.
C&W state that in practice, if an actual sale of the properties were to be contemplated then any immature low cash flow stores would normally be presented to the market for sale lotted or grouped with other more mature assets owned by the same entity, in order to alleviate the issue of negative or low short term cash flow.
This approach would enhance the marketability of the group of assets and assist in achieving the best price available in the market by diluting the cash flow risk.
C&W have not adjusted their opinion of Fair Value to reflect such a grouping of the immature assets with other properties in the portfolio and all stores have been valued individually.
However, they highlight the matter to alert the Group to the manner in which the properties might be grouped or lotted in order to maximise their attractiveness to the market place.
