6.0 CSR PROGRAMME FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 MARCH 2017 Big Yellow will continue to focus on its most significant environmental and financial aspects of its business impact, energy use and carbon emissions.
Energy efficiency and low carbon supply programmes have been trialled and have been implemented since 2008.
We will review and consider further energy reduction strategies within our store operations for carbon and financial savings.
For the year ahead our programmes, objectives and targets are highlighted in the table below.
CSR Strategy Programme Objectives From 2011 Benchmark GHG Emission Reduction Assess new and acquired stores within the External store lighting programmed for LED portfolio for efficient LED re-lamping re-lamping in the year ending 31 March 2017. internally and externally.
CRC Review potential tax reduction as tCO tax Implement more specific ESOS advice.
Increase Solar Energy Solar installations to increase with new Solar installation on new build Guildford store generation, revenue and savings build portfolio growth, acquisitions and and two retrofit installations on Colchester existing retro-fit stores.
FTSE4 Good Investor Governance Provided data on the Big Yellow website to Maintain membership within the FTSE4 Good positioning update research requests on our supply Index series ratings and engaging with chain, labour standards and the Modern researchers.
CDP Communications Use our annual carbon performance data in To increase and maintain our high the CDP survey 2015 to improve our ratings.
performance and interest form a wider range of investors.
GRESB Maintain our upper quartile ranking scores Strengthen and maintain the leading Green in management and policy and Star position in the GRESB upper quadrant.
Health and Safety Continually maintain and improve Invest in continued training and awareness high standards of recording and of staff in routine health and safety policy, reporting customer, staff, visitor, procedures, management and reporting.
Staff and CSR awareness Continue raising CSR awareness through Regular staff meetings and information area staff presentations and internal bulletins on CSR progress and Climate communications.
More details of CSR policies, previous reports and awards can be found on our investor relations website at http: corporate.
