Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report Big Yellow recognises that a high level of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, linked to clear commercial objectives, will create a more sustainable business and increase shareholder and customer value.
1.0 INTRODUCTION Big Yellow recognises that a high level of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, linked to clear commercial objectives, will create a more sustainable business and increase shareholder and customer value.
Our CSR policy covers all of our operations, as a self storage provider, a real estate developer, an employer and a participant in our local communities.
Big Yellow seeks to meet the demand for self storage from businesses and private individuals providing the storage space for their commercial and or domestic needs, whilst aiding local employment creation and contributing to local community regeneration.
2.0 CSR EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Big Yellow is pleased to deliver another year of steady CSR progress across the Group.
Our focus over the last 12 months has delivered the following benefits: Our successful entry into the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work For, after a survey response rate of 81% from our team compared to an average of 63% from other companies.
We achieved a Two Star Status in the Best Companies Accreditation, with only 21% of the entrants bettering our status.
Supporting 14 different local charities elected by our stores and by our head office teams: our people undertook a variety of activities for these and a few other charities and raised over 45,000 of funds during the year.
At the same time Big Yellow and Armadillo Self Storage donated the equivalent of over 753,000 of free storage in the same period.
Big Yellows Health & Safety record on our construction sites and at our stores maintained its exemplary high standards.
Measured by both the number of recorded Minor Injuries and by RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation our high standards of health and safety have continued to be delivered to our customers, staff, contractors and other visitors.
Furthermore, we have continued to manage our construction sites under the controlling factors of the CCS Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Our continued investment in LED lighting and in fuel efficient gas heating systems at our flexi-offices has delivered reduced carbon emissions in both absolute and like-for-like measures.
Our total annual Carbon emissions are now 35.2% lower than our peak year of 2011.
Furthermore if we look at these emissions in relation to our occupancy our carbon per square metre occupied is down 58.0% from our 2011 peak.
We have continued to open new stores with sustainable energy generation investments.
In the last 12 months our new solar investment at Enfield a new store has added to our supply chain, which has now grown by 335% since 2011.
Our 17 stores with solar energy systems now generate 15.4% of the total electricity they need from sustainable sources.
We continue to benchmark our CSR performance against credible certifications where we consider them to be relevant.
42% of our stores hold EPCs Energy Performance Certificates, the majority of which are rated A or B.
We have assessed a selection of stores to comply with the UK Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS and are considering the outcome of these surveys for future sustainable initiatives.
We continue to participate in sustainable benchmarking initiatives such as the FTSE4Good, EPRA, Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB.
Finally, we continue to plan for the future and to continue to deliver sustainable benefits to the Group.
We aim to reduce our Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG from the 2008 peak by 40.4% by 2020.
We will achieve this by continuing our investment in LED lighting, solar PV systems on our store roofs and other sustainable initiatives identified from our ESOS surveys.
38 We recognise the importance of supporting local community projects and charities through fundraising and donating free storage space.
During the year we donated space in our stores worth approximately 753,000 to charities.
2.1 OUR PEOPLE Our people are at the heart of Big Yellows business, bringing our values to life through the service that they provide, and bringing the energy and passion that drives us to become an ever more responsible and sustainable business.
We recognise that recruiting, retaining and motivating individuals with talent and integrity and ensuring that we listen to our people and maximise their skills and performance - is key to the continued success of our Company.
We encourage a culture of partnership within the business and believe in staff participating in corporate performance through benefits, such as bonus schemes and share incentives.
We recognise and reward the exceptional performance, achievements and ideas of our people through a Points Recognition Scheme, and awarded 55,000 of points to our staff for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Wellbeing and Support We aim to promote employee wellbeing through a range of flexible working options which include flexitime, staggered hours, home working and sabbaticals.
We provide Childcare Vouchers along with a comprehensive range of medical support and advice through our private healthcare scheme and occupational health providers.
We have arranged corporate gym membership on a national basis, as well as a Cycle to Work scheme and Employee Assistance Programmes.
Communication and Engagement We continue to recognise the importance of communication and consultation with our people and provide an annual spring conference, regular formal and informal meetings, quarterly newsletters and weekly operational updates.
In addition, the Directors and senior management spend a significant amount of time in the stores and are accessible to employees at all levels.
In February 2016, we were named as one of the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work For.
We are particularly proud of this achievement given a total of 1,336 companies initially applied to participate in this process and we achieved a survey response rate of 81%, compared to an average of 62.6%.
In addition, we also achieved Two Star Status in the Best Companies Accreditation.
In total, 768 companies gained accreditation, with only 21% having bettered us in achieving three stars.
Our Two Star Status demonstrates that we have achieved outstanding levels of employee engagement within the Company.
Training and Development We continue to promote the development of staff through ongoing training and regular performance appraisals.
For the year ended 31 March 2016 a total of 960 days training was provided across the Company, comprising of both sales and operational training and personal and management development.
Our Big Impressions customer experience programme continued throughout the year, with one element of the programme being re-designed to further support our teams in completely understanding and fulfilling the needs of our customers.
During the last year, ten staff have completed our personal development programme designed specifically for Assistant Store Managers, with four of those people having subsequently been promoted to the position of Store Manager.
Eight Assistant Store Managers are currently participating in the programme, to prepare them for their future progression within the Company.
As a result of this programme and our other internal training and development programmes, 55% of our store based staff have been promoted from within the business to their existing position.
39 Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 2.0 CSR EXECUTIVE SUMMARY continued Community We recognise the importance of contributing within the local community and we encourage our people to develop close links with charities, schools and other institutions, both locally and nationally, to help to build more economically sustainable environments.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, we recognised and supported 14 different Company charities which were elected by our store and head office teams.
Our people undertook a variety of activities for both these and other charities, with donations also being made by the Company.
Throughout the year a total of 29,000 was raised for our Company charities and 16,000 was raised for other charities.
Examples of our fundraising activities have included: The Anne Rowling Clinic One of our team members ran the Edinburgh Half Marathon, Great North Run and Great Birmingham Run and raised nearly 1,600 for the Anne Rowling Clinic, which is a charitable University of Edinburgh research facility focusing on a wide range of neurological conditions, especially neurodegenerative diseases.
Donations from the dedicated fundraising efforts of John Laffey, from Big Yellow Self Storage are already making an impact on the lives of patients with MS and other neurodegenerative diseases.
The research work at the Anne Rowling Regenerative Neurology Clinic will help us to apply the latest discoveries in regenerative medicine to neurodegenerative diseases and we are committed to discovering therapies that will slow, stop or even reverse the damage that these diseases cause.
Our patients are grateful for the generous donations and have asked us to pass on their thanks to both John and Big Yellow.
We would like to thank John for running so hard and far to raise awareness and funds for the Anne Rowling Clinic.
Kerry Mackay, Individual Giving Officer, The Anne Rowling Clinic British Heart Foundation Nine of our stores have acted as Donation Stations for the British Heart Foundation, raising a total of just under 23,000 for the year from bags of unwanted clothes and household goods, which will support the charitys pioneering heart research, as well as the care of people living with heart disease.
In addition a further 3,200 has been raised across the year by various members of staff completing sponsored swims, runs and cycle rides.
We are delighted with the continued support we have received from Big Yellow staff and customers over the last few years.
Were very grateful for the unwanted items that have been donated.
By selling these in British Heart Foundation shops and stores, and fundraising activities that have taken place, over 45,000 has been raised to date which will help fund our life saving research.
Its wonderful to have the support of Big Yellow and we are looking forward to another successful year of our partnership Clare Appleby, Corporate Partnerships Account Manager, British Heart Foundation Go Dad Run Big Yellow provided sponsorship of 20,000 for the Go Dad Run in June 2015, the aim of which is to raise awareness of, and funds for, Prostate Cancer UK through a series of 5k and 10k runs.
House of St Barnabus A total of 3,500 was raised at a Big Yellow hosted lunch for our construction suppliers to support this London based charity, whose aim is to make lasting employment a reality for those affected by homelessness and social exclusion.
Southwark Tigers Rugby Club During the last year, Big Yellow has provided sponsorship of 2,500 to this inner city junior rugby club whose aim is to benefit young people through the skills learnt in the game of rugby and make it affordable and attractive to all.
Big Yellow Storage have always been a keen supporter of Southwark Tigers Rugby Club, the first inner city rugby club in Britain.
Whenever the club needs a boost, when the kit starts to look tatty, or new balls are required, the Company steps up immediately to help.
The support of Big Yellow has helped us immensely.
We are now encouraging Southwark council to build an artificial rugby pitch that will allow us to really develop rugby in the area.
Vernon Neve-Dunn, Chairman, Southwark Tigers Rugby Club 40 Caius House Caius House is a charity and youth club in Battersea, London, which aims to provide young people within the local community with a safe place to go to where their skills and talents can be progressed to fulfil their potential.
During the last year, Big Yellow has provided the Caius House football team with sponsorship of 10,000.
Caius House is delighted to have the support of Big Yellow Self Storage for our football teams.
The young people have really enjoyed participating in a high quality club which is free of charge and have done well in the leagues this season.
"We hope for even greater success in the upcoming season and we would like to take this opportunity to thank all the staff and Directors at Big Yellow Self Storage for making this possible""."
Tameeka Smith, Director, Caius House Free Storage In addition to our fundraising activities, we have also provided charities with free storage.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, the space occupied by charities in Big Yellow and Armadillo stores on this basis was 46,000 sq ft, worth approximately 753,000 per annum at standard rents.
Some of the many charities that have benefited from this storage include Cancer Research, Macmillan, the National Childbirth Trust, the British Heart Foundation and a number of food bank and childrens charities.
Young Enterprise A number of team members within our head office and stores have continued to support students in schools or colleges within their local communities in conjunction with Young Enterprise, a charitable organisation that creates and develops programmes that complement the school experience with business skills and encourages young people to realise the extent of their own talents.
Our volunteering has taken the form of providing classroom support, mentoring students to create their own businesses and participating in Young Enterprise regional board meetings.
2.2 OUR HEALTH & SAFETY Big Yellow recognises the importance of maintaining high standards of Health and Safety for everyone who may be affected by our business, such as our customers, staff, contractors and other visitors to our stores.
The Groups Health and Safety Committee reviews its Policy, risk assessments, performance and records on a quarterly basis.
The Policy is applied in two distinct areas our construction activities and our routine store operations.
The Committee meet to discuss any issues that have been reported from meetings held at our head office, Maidenhead our distribution warehouse, the stores and any construction sites.
The Policy states that all employees have a responsibility for health and safety, but that managers have special responsibilities.
Additional duties are placed on Adrian Lee, Operations Director, to keep the Board advised on health and safety issues and ensure compliance with the Policy in respect of Construction via the Construction Director and store operations, via the Facilities Manager.
Externally, other interested stakeholders include the Health and Safety Executive HSE and Local Government.
The Health and Safety Committee minutes are distributed to the CEO, CSR Manager, Human Resources Manager, Facilities Management and our external health and safety consultant.
The external consultant reviews our Policy and performs audits of our stores on a rolling programme, to ensure the implementation of the Groups Health and Safety policies.
Any actions recommended by our consultant are considered by the Committee and, if required, then implemented into the operations or construction systems.
Health and Safety Audits are also carried out by external consultants on each construction site prior to the opening of a store.
Our Health and Safety reporting covers all of our stores, our head office, Maidenhead and our Fit-out construction sites.
Incidents are recorded for staff, customers, contractors and visitors.
The Board receives reports which monitor Health and Safety performance in all these areas.
Annual Store Health and Safety Meetings take place for all stores and Maidenhead.
Agendas are provided for these meetings by the Facilities team and the minutes are reviewed by Area Managers to raise any issues with Facilities or Human Resources, where necessary.
Health and Safety performance and incidents are reported in the tables below: 2.2.
1 Big Yellow Store Customer, Contractor and Visitor Health and Safety Store customer, contractor and visitor Health & Safety Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of customer move-ins during the year 57,604 65,807 72,772 75,097 75,438 Number of minor injuries 43 34 31 50 58 Number of reportable injuries RIDDOR 3 3 4 4 RIDDOR per 100,000 4.6 4.1 5.3 5.3 Indicates data reviewed by Deloitte LLP as part of their assurance work.
See page 54 for the independent assurance.
RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation 1995.
41 Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 2.2.
1 Big Yellow Store Customer, Contractor and Visitor Health and Safety continued The number of customer move-ins increased this year by 0.5%.
There were a total of 62 incidents, four of which were sustained by customers and were reportable.
One reportable incident by a contractor was reported by the contractor directly to the HSE.
Minor injuries included breaks, cuts and bruises from the handling of customer possessions, equipment and vehicles.
The 58 minor injuries occurred while customers on the whole handled possessions, bins and pallets.
This year our staff training schedules provided customers with fire, health and safety risk assessments, which raised awareness of the potential for personal injuries.
12 minor injuries were due to visitor deliveries, involving minor cuts and bruises from doors and pallet handling.
There were no Fatal Injuries, Notices or Prosecutions during the year ended 31 March 2016.
2 Big Yellow Staff Store and head office staff health and safety Year ended 31 March 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Average number of staff 279 286 289 300 318 Number of Minor Injuries 11 15 13 15 10 Number of Reportable Injuries RIDDOR 3 1 1 1 Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR 100,000 staff 1,049 346 333 314 Indicates data reviewed by Deloitte LLP.
See page 54 for their independent assurance report.
AIIR Number of staff reportable injuries Average number of staff x 100,000.
The Armadillo stores are not included in the scope of Health and Safety Data for 2016.
All historic data has been restated to reflect this.
Big Yellow staff numbers increased by 6% and there was a reduction in Minor Injuries from 15 to 10.
The Minor Injuries were cuts and bruises relating to waste disposal, and the handling of boxes and pallets.
There was one Reportable Injury involving a work related fork lift truck incident.
Overall, the Annual Injury Incidence Rate decreased by 5.7%, against a store staff increase.
Store staff were also involved in assisting customers in completing fire, health and safety training risk assessment questionnaires.
3 Big Yellow Construction Big Yellows new store at Enfield was opened at the start of the year and during the year our Cambridge store was fitted out for self storage.
14 existing stores also had internal storage partition extension works carried out.
Construction fit-out contractors and visitor health and safety Year ended 31 March 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of total Man Days 6,511 610 3,315 3,005 6,560 Number of Minor Injuries 1 2 1 3 Number of Reportable Injuries RIDDOR The number of Man Days worked was more than double the previous year, mainly due to the Fit Out of our newly acquired Cambridge building.
Three minor injuries and eight near misses were recorded, with high safety standards being maintained.
The Cambridge site was also managed under the Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS which promotes high standards of health and safety management.
No Fatal Injuries, Notices, Reportable Injuries or Prosecutions occurred, indicating a well-controlled environment for staff, contractors and visitors.
Health and Safety performance continues to be reviewed in preparation for our next new store development at Guildford in 2016.
At Cambridge a new storage facility was provided after the extensive refurbishment of a former warehouse, located adjacent to a well-established retail park close to the city centre.
Under the CCS Big Yellow Construction was rated Excellent for Securing Everyones Safety and scored Very Good ratings in: Valuing the Workforce, Respect for the Community, Protecting the Environment and Caring about site Appearance.
A limited level of assurance is provided for select Health and Safety performance data.
This assurance was undertaken by Deloitte LLP in accordance with the International Standards on Assurance Engagements 3000 Revised ISAE 3000.
