Other information GLOSSARY Adjusted net debt is the Group net debt and Developers profit is the profit on cost EPRA net asset value EPRA NAV is a the Groups share of joint venture and funds net estimated by the valuers that a developer proportionally consolidated measure debt excluding the mark-to-market on effective would expect.
The developers profit is typically representing the IFRS net assets excluding the cash flow hedges and related debt adjustments calculated by the valuers to be a percentage mark-to-market on effective cash flow hedges and non-controlling interests.
A reconciliation of the estimated total development costs, and related debt adjustments, the mark-tobetween Group net debt and adjusted net debt including land and notional finance costs.
market on the convertible bonds as well as is included in Table A within the supplementary deferred taxation on property and derivative disclosures.
Development uplift is the total increase valuations.
It includes the valuation surplus in the value after taking account of capital on trading properties and is adjusted for the Annualised rent is the gross property rent expenditure and capitalised interest of dilutive impact of share options and the receivable on a cash basis as at the reporting properties held for development during the 400 million convertible bond maturing in 2017. date.
Additionally, it includes the external period.
It also includes any developers profit A reconciliation between IFRS net assets and valuers estimate of additional rent in respect of recognised by valuers in the period.
EPRA NAV is included in Table B within the unsettled rent review, turnover rent and sundry Supplementary Disclosures.
income such as that from car parks and Development cost is the total cost of commercialisation, less any ground rents construction of a project to completion, EPRA net initial yield is the annualised payable under head leases.
excluding site values and finance costs finance rents generated by the portfolio, after the costs are assumed by the valuers at a notional deduction of an estimate of annual recurring Assets under management is the full value rate of 5% per annum.
irrecoverable property outgoings, expressed of all assets owned and managed by British as a percentage of the portfolio valuation Land and includes 100% of the value of all joint EPRA is the European Public Real Estate adding notional purchasers costs, excluding ventures and funds.
Association, the industry body for development and residential properties.
BREEAM Building Research Establishment EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV adjusted to Environmental Assessment Method assesses EPRA Cost Ratio including direct vacancy reflect the fair value of debt and derivatives and the sustainability of buildings against a range costs is the ratio of net overheads and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
of social and environmental criteria.
operating expenses against gross rental income with both amounts excluding ground EPRA Topped-Up Net Initial Yield is the current Capital return is calculated as the change rents payable.
Net overheads and operating annualised rent, net of costs, topped-up for in capital value of the UK portfolio, less any expenses relate to all administrative and contracted uplifts, where these are not in lieu capital expenditure incurred, expressed as operating expenses including the share of joint of rental growth, expressed as a percentage of a percentage of capital employed start value ventures overheads and operating expenses, capital value, after adding notional purchasers plus capital expenditure over the period, net of any service fees, recharges or other costs, excluding development and residential as calculated by IPD.
Capital returns are income specifically intended to cover overhead properties.
calculated monthly and indexed to provide and property expenses.
a return over the relevant period.
EPRA vacancy rate is the estimated market EPRA Cost Ratio excluding direct vacancy rental value ERV of vacant space divided by Capped rents are rents subject to a maximum costs is the ratio calculated above, but with ERV of the whole portfolio, excluding level of uplift at the specified rent reviews as direct vacancy costs removed from net developments and residential property.
agreed at the time of letting.
overheads and operating expenses balance.
Estimated Rental Value ERV is the external Collar rents are rents subject to a minimum EPRA earnings is the IFRS profit after taxation valuers opinion as to the open market rent level of uplift at the specified rent reviews as attributable to shareholders of the Company which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably agreed at the time of letting.
excluding investment and development be expected to be obtained on a new letting or property revaluations, gains losses on rent review of a property.
Contracted rent is the annualised rent investing and trading property disposals, adjusting for the inclusion of rent subject changes in the fair value of financial ERV growth is the change in ERV over a to rent-free periods.
instruments and associated close-out costs period on the standing investment properties and their related taxation.
These items are expressed as a percentage of the ERV at the Customer satisfaction includes consumers presented in the capital and other column of the start of the period.
ERV growth is calculated as well as occupiers.
This includes exit survey income statement.
A reconciliation between monthly and compounded for the period subject data for consumer satisfaction in the retail profit attributable to shareholders of the to measurement, as calculated by IPD.
business, as well as office and retail occupier Company and EPRA earnings is included in satisfaction scores, and in future we aim to Table B within the Supplementary Disclosures.
Fair value movement is an accounting be able to further expand to include consumer adjustment to change the book value of satisfaction for other sectors.
EPRA NAV per share is EPRA NAV divided by an asset or liability to its market value.
the diluted number of shares at the period end.
Footfall is the annualised number of visitors entering our assets.
Footfall growth movement in footfall against the same period in the prior year, on properties owned throughout both comparable periods, aggregated at 100% share.
200 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Gross investment activity as measured by Like-for-like rental income growth is the Net rental income is the rental income our share of acquisitions, sales and investment growth in net rental income on properties receivable in the period after payment of direct in committed development.
owned throughout the current and previous property outgoings which typically comprise periods under review.
This growth rate includes ground rents payable under head leases, void Gross rental income is the gross accounting revenue recognition and lease accounting costs, net service charge expenses and other rent receivable quoted either for the period or adjustments but excludes properties held for direct irrecoverable property expenses.
Net on an annualised basis prepared under IFRS development in either period and properties rental income is quoted on an accounting basis.
which requires that rental income from fixed with guaranteed rent reviews.
Net rental income will differ from annualised minimum guaranteed rent reviews and tenant net cash rents and passing rent due to the incentives is spread on a straight-line basis Loan to value LTV is the ratio of principal effects of income from rent reviews, net over the entire lease to first break.
This can value of gross debt less cash, short term property outgoings and accounting adjustments result in income being recognised ahead of deposits and liquid investments to the for fixed and minimum contracted rent reviews cash flow.
aggregate value of properties and investments.
Group is The British Land Company PLC and Managed portfolio consists of multi-let Net reversionary yield is the anticipated yield its subsidiaries and excludes its share of joint properties where we have control of facilities to which the initial yield will rise or fall once ventures and funds where not treated as a and utilities management.
the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
subsidiary on a line-by-line basis i. e. not proportionally consolidated.
Mark-to-market is the difference between Occupancy rate is the estimated rental the book value of an asset or liability and its value of let units as a percentage of the total Headline rent is the contracted gross rent market value.
estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding receivable which becomes payable after all the development and residential properties.
It tenant incentives in the letting have expired.
Multi-channel retailing is the use of a includes accommodation, under offer, subject to variety of channels in a customers shopping asset management where they have been taken IFRS are the International Financial Reporting experience, including research, before a back for refurbishment and are not available to Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Such channels include: retail let as at the balance sheet date or occupied by stores, online stores, mobile stores, mobile app the Group.
Income return is calculated as net income stores, telephone sales and any other method expressed as a percentage of capital employed of transacting with a customer.
Transacting Omni-channel retailing is the evolution of over the period, as calculated by IPD.
Income includes browsing, buying, returning as well multi-channel retailing, but is concentrated returns are calculated monthly and indexed as preand post-sale service.
more on a seamless approach to the consumer to provide a return over the relevant period.
experience through all available shopping Net Development Value is the estimated end channels i. e. mobile internet devices, Interest cover is the number of times net value of a development project as determined computers, bricks and mortar, television, interest payable is covered by Underlying Profit by the external valuers for when the building radio, direct mail, catalogue, etc.
before net interest payable and taxation.
is completed and fully let taking into account tenant incentives and notional purchasers Over rented is the term used to describe when IPD is Investment Property Databank Ltd costs.
It is based on the valuers view on ERVs, the contracted rent is above the estimated whichproduces independent benchmarks yields, letting voids and tenant incentives.
ofproperty returns and British Land UK portfolio returns.
Net effective rent is the contracted gross rent Overall topped-up net initial yield is the receivable taking into account any rent-free EPRA topped-up Net Initial Yield, adding all Lettings and lease renewals are compared period or other tenant incentives.
The contracted uplifts to the annualised rents.
both to the previous passing rent as at the start incentives are treated as a cost-to-rent of the financial year and the ERV immediately and spread over the lease to the earliest prior to letting.
Both comparisons are made termination date.
Net equivalent yield is the weighted average Letting performance against ERV comparison income return after adding notional of achieved letting terms on long term lettings purchasers costs a property will produce and renewals against valuation assumptions on based upon the timing of the income received.
like-for-like space, calculated on a net effective In accordance with usual practice, the basis, aggregated at 100% share.
equivalent yields as determined by the external valuers assume rent is received Leverage see loan to value LTV.
Net Initial Yield is the current annualised rent, net of costs, expressed as a percentage of capital value, after adding notional purchasers costs.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 201 Other information GLOSSARY CONTINUED Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground Rents with fixed and minimum uplifts are Scrip dividend British Land may offer its rent payable under head leases.
either where rents are subject to contracted shareholders the opportunity to receive uplifts at a level agreed at the time of letting: dividends in the form of shares instead Property Income Distributions PIDs are or where the rent is subject to an agreed of cash.
This is known as a Scrip dividend.
profits distributed to shareholders which are minimum level of uplift at the specified subject to tax in the hands of the shareholders rent review.
Standing investments are assets which are as property income.
PIDs are normally paid directly held and not in the course of, or held net of withholding tax currently at 20% which Retailer sales growth movement in retailer for development.
the REIT pays to the tax authorities on behalf sales against the same period in the prior of the shareholder.
Certain types of shareholder year, on occupiers providing sales data Tenant or lease incentives are incentives i. e. pension funds are tax exempt and receive throughout both comparable periods, offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
REITs also pay aggregated at 100% share.
Typically this will be an initial rent-free period, out normal dividends, called non-PIDs, or a cash contribution to fit-out.
Under which are taxed in the same way as dividends Retail planning consents are separated accounting rules the value of lease incentives received from non-REIT companies: these between A1, A2 and A3 as set out in The Town is amortised through the income statement are not subject to withholding tax and for UK and Country Planning Use Classes Order.
on a straight-line basis to the earliest lease individual shareholders qualify for the tax Within the A1 category, Open A1 permission termination date.
allows for the majority of types of retail including fashion to be accommodated, while TMT stands for technology, media and Portfolio valuation is reported by the Restricted A1 permission places limits on the telecommunications.
In accordance types of retail that can operate for example, with usual practice, they report valuations a restriction that only bulky goods operators The residual site value of a development is net, after the deduction of the notional are allowed to trade at that site.
calculated as the estimated net development purchasers costs, including stamp duty value, less development profit, all development land tax, agent and legal fees.
construction costs, finance costs assumed at Class Description Use for all any of the following purposes a notional rate of a project to completion and Proportionally consolidated measures include notional site acquisition costs.
The residual A1 Shops Shops, retail warehouses, the Groups share of joint ventures and funds is determined to be the current site value.
hairdressers, undertakers, and exclude non-controlling interests in the travel and ticket agencies, post offices, pet shops, Groups subsidiaries.
Topping out is a traditional construction sandwich bars, showrooms, ceremony to mark the occasion when domestic hire shops, dry Rack rented is the term used to describe when the structure of the building reaches cleaners, funeral directors the contracted rent is in line with the estimated the highest point.
rental value ERV, implying a nil reversion.
A2 Financial and Financial services such Total property return is calculated as the professional as banks and building Rent-free period see Tenant or lease change in capital value, less any capital services societies, professional incentives.
expenditure incurred, plus net income, services other than health expressed as a percentage of capital employed and medical services including estate and REITs are property companies that allow over the period, as calculated by IPD.
people and organisations to invest in property returns are calculated monthly It does not include betting commercial property and receive benefits and indexed to provide a return over the offices or pay day loan shops as if they directly owned the properties relevant period.
these are now classed as themselves.
The rental income, after costs, sui generis uses.
is passed directly to shareholders in the form Total return total accounting return is the A3 Restaurants For the sale of food and of dividends.
In the UK REITs are required to growth in EPRA NAV per share plus dividends and cafes drink for consumption on distribute at least 90% of their tax exempt paid, and this can be expressed as a percentage the premises restaurants, property income to shareholders as dividends.
of EPRA NAV per share at the beginning of snack bars and cafes.
As a result, over time, a significant proportion the period.
D2 Assembly Cinemas, music and concert of the total return for shareholders is likely to and leisure halls, bingo and dance halls come from dividends.
The effect is that taxation but not night clubs, Total shareholder return is the growth in value swimming baths, skating is moved from the corporate level to the of a shareholding over a specified period, rinks, gymnasiums or areas investor level as investors are liable for assuming dividends are reinvested to purchase for indoor or outdoor sports tax as if they owned the property directly.
British Land became a REIT in January 2007.
Total Tax Contribution is a more Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by comprehensive view of tax contributions than the lease typically every five years and their the external valuers, where the passing rent is the accountancy-defined tax figure quoted in purpose is usually to adjust the rent to the below the estimated rental value.
The increases most financial statements.
It comprises taxes current market level at the review date.
For in rent arise on rent reviews and letting of and levies paid directly, as well as taxes upwards-only rent reviews, the rent will either vacant space or re-letting of expiries.
collected from others which we administered.
remain at the same level or increase if market rents have increased at the review date.
Turnover rents is where all or a portion of the rent is linked to the sales or turnover of the occupier.
202 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Under rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent is below the estimated rental value ERV, implying a positive reversion.
Underlying earnings per share EPS consists of Underlying Profit after tax divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Underlying Profit is the pre-tax EPRA earnings measure with additional Company adjustments.
No Company adjustments were made in either the current or prior year.
Valuation uplift is the increase in the portfolio valuation and sales receipts of properties sold during the period, net of capital expenditure, capitalised interest and development team costs, and transaction costs incurred, expressed as a percentage of the portfolio valuation at the start of the period plus net capital expenditure, capitalised interest and development team costs, and transaction costs.
Virtual freehold represents a long leasehold tenure for a period of up to 999 years.
A peppercorn, or nominal, rent is paid annually.
Weighted average debt maturity each tranche of Group debt is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the sum of the results is divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
Weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and net derivative costs per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
Weighted average unexpired lease term is the average lease term remaining to first break, or expiry, across the portfolio weighted by contracted rent excluding development and residential properties.
Yield compression occurs when the net equivalent yield of a property decreases, measured in basis points.
Yield on cost is the estimated annual rent of the completed development divided by the total cost of development including site value and notional finance costs to the point of assumed rent commencement, expressed as a percentage return.
Yield shift is a movement usually expressed in bps in the net equivalent yield of a property asset, or like-for-like portfolio, over a given period weighted by net capital value.
Yield compression is a commonly-used term for a reduction in yields.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 203 Forward-looking statements This Press Release contains certain forward-looking statements.
Such statements reflect current views on, among other things, our markets, activities, projections, objectives and prospects.
Such forward-looking statements can sometimes, but not always, be identified by their reference to a date or point in the future or the use of forward-looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, due, plans, projects, goal, outlook, schedule, target, aim, may, likely to, will, would, could, should or similar expressions or in each case their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks, assumptions and uncertainties because they relate to future events and depend on circumstances which may or may not occur and may be beyond our ability to control or predict.
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with caution as actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements.
Important factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements of British Land to differ materially from any outcomes or results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements include, among other things: a general business and political, social and economic conditions globally, b the outcome and consequences of the referendum on Britain leaving the EU, c industry and market trends including demand in the property investment market and property price volatility, d competition, e the behaviour of other market participants, f changes in government and other regulation, including in relation to the environment, health and safety and taxation in particular, in respect of British Lands status as a Real Estate Investment Trust, g inflation and consumer confidence, h labour relations and work stoppages, i natural disasters and adverse weather conditions, j terrorism and acts of war, k British Lands overall business strategy, risk appetite and investment choices in its portfolio management, l legal or other proceedings against or affecting British Land, m reliable and secure IT infrastructure, n changes in occupier demand and tenant default, o changes in financial and equity markets including interest and exchange rate fluctuations, p changes in accounting practices and the interpretation of accounting standards and q the availability and cost of finance.
The Companys principal risks are described in greater detail in the section of this Press Release headed Managing risk in delivering our strategy.
Forward-looking statements in this Press Release, or the British Land website or made subsequently, which are attributable to British Land or persons acting on its behalf should therefore be construed in light of all such factors.
Information contained in this Press Release relating to British Land or its share price or the yield on its shares are not guarantees of, and should not be relied upon as an indicator of, future performance, and nothing in this Press Release should be construed as a profit forecast.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of British Land speak only as of the date they are made.
Such forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above and no representation, assurance, guarantee or warranty is given in relation to them whether by British Land or any of its associates, Directors, officers, employees or advisers, including as to their completeness, accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
Other than in accordance with our legal and regulatory obligations including under the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, British Land does not intend or undertake to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in British Lands expectations with regard thereto or any changes in information, events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
This document shall not, under any circumstances, create any implication that there has been no change in the business or affairs of British Land since the date of this document or that the information contained herein is correct as at any time subsequent to this date.
204 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Design and production Addison Group addison-group.
net Photography Board photography Barry Willis #SayCheesegrater During the year we held our #SayCheesegrater Instagram competition.
We have used two photographs in this report which were taken by: Tom Mearns @themearns Sonni Modi @stealth hquk Ross Dickson @dickson.
ross Print CPI Colour Printed on Amadeus 50 50 Silk, containing 50% recycled fibre and 50% sustainably sourced fibre certified by the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Pulp bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
Manufactured by a paper mill certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
Printed by CPI Colour, an ISO 14001, FSC and CarbonNeutral printing company.
MIX Paper from responsible sources FSC C016486 Head Ofce and registered ofce York House 45 Seymour Street London W1H 7LX Telephone 44 0 20 7486 4466 Fax 44 0 20 7935 5552 www.
