FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 173 List of definitions unaudited Average topped-up rent EPRA vacancy rate Annualised rents generated by the portfolio plus rent contracted Estimated rental value ERV of immediately available space from expiry of rent free periods and uplifts agreed at the balance divided by the ERV of the EPRA portfolio.
In addition, the Group has adopted the following Capital return recommendation for investment property reporting.
The annual valuation movement arising on the Groups EPRA like-for-like rental income growth portfolio expressed as a percentage return on the valuation The growth in rental income on properties owned throughout at the beginning of the year adjusted for acquisitions and the current and previous year under review.
This growth rate capital expenditure.
includes revenue recognition and lease accounting adjustments Diluted figures but excludes properties held for development in either year and Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potential properties acquired or disposed of in either year.
dilutive shares issuable under the Groups share option schemes Fair value adjustment and the convertible bonds.
An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset Earnings earnings per share EPS or liability to its market value.
Earnings represent the profit or loss for the year attributable to Ground rent equity shareholders and are divided by the weighted average The rent payable by the Group for its leasehold properties.
number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year to Under IFRS, these leases are treated as finance leases and the arrive at earnings per share.
cost allocated between interest payable and property outgoings.
Estimated rental value ERV Headroom This is the external valuers opinion as to the open market rent This is the amount left to draw under the Groups loan facilities which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to i. e. the total loan facilities less amounts already drawn.
be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Interest rate swap European Public Real Estate Association EPRA A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an A not-for-profit association with a membership of Europes interest rate obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
leading property companies, investors and consultants which These are generally used by the Group to convert floating rate strives to establish best practices in accounting, reporting and debt to fixed rates.
corporate governance and to provide high-quality information Investment Property Databank Limited IPD to investors.
EPRA published its latest Best Practices IPD is a company that produces independent benchmarks Recommendations in November 2016.
This includes guidelines of property returns.
The Group measures its performance for the calculation of the following performance measures which against both the Central London Offices Index and the All UK the Group has adopted.
EPRA earnings per share Key Performance Indicators KPIs Earnings from operational activities.
Activities and behaviours, aligned to both business objectives EPRA net asset value per share and individual goals, against which the performance of the NAV adjusted to include trading properties and other Group is annually assessed.
Performance measured against investment interests at fair value and to exclude certain items them is referenced in the Annual Report.
not expected to crystallise in a long-term investment property Lease incentives business model.
Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
EPRA triple net asset value per share Typically the incentive will be an initial rent free or half rent EPRA NAV adjusted to include the fair values of i financial period, stepped rents, or a cash contribution to fit-out or instruments, ii debt and iii deferred taxes on revaluations, similar costs.
Loan-to-value ratio LTV EPRA cost ratio including direct vacancy costs Drawn debt net of cash divided by the fair value of the property EPRA costs as a percentage of gross rental income less ground portfolio.
Drawn debt is equal to drawn facilities less cash and rent including share of joint venture gross rental income less the unamortised equity element of the convertible bonds.
EPRA costs include administrative expenses, Mark-to-market other property costs, net service charge costs and the share of joint ventures overheads and operating expenses net of any The difference between the book value of an asset or liability and its market value.
service charge costs, adjusted for service charge costs recovered through rents and management fees.
NAV gearing Net debt divided by net assets.
EPRA cost ratio excluding direct vacancy costs Calculated as above, but with an adjustment to exclude direct Net assets per share or net asset value NAV vacancy costs.
Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
EPRA net initial yield NIY Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at Net debt the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property Borrowings plus bank overdraft less cash and cash equivalents.
operating expenses, divided by the market value of the EPRA Net interest cover ratio property portfolio, increased by estimated purchasers costs.
Net property income, excluding all non-core items divided by EPRA topped up net initial yield interest payable on borrowings and non-utilisation fees.
This measure incorporates an adjustment to the EPRA NIY in respect of the expiration of rent free periods or other unexpired lease incentives such as discounted rent periods and stepped rents.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 174 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS List of definitions unaudited continued Property income distribution PID Underlying valuation increase Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property rental The valuation increase on the underlying portfolio.
business under the REIT regulations.
Yields Non-PID Net initial yield Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property Real Estate Investment Trust REIT operating expenses, divided by the market value of the The UK Real Estate Investment Trust REIT regime was property, increased by estimated purchasers costs.
On 1 July 2007, Derwent London plc elected to convert to REIT status.
Reversionary yield The anticipated yield to which the net initial yield will rise once The REIT legislation was introduced to provide a structure which the rent reaches the estimated rental values.
closely mirrors the tax outcomes of direct ownership in property and removes tax inequalities between different real estate True equivalent yield investors.
It provides a liquid and publicly available vehicle The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash which opens the property market to a wide range of investors.
flows from the portfolio, including current rent, reversions to valuers estimated rental value and such items as voids and A REIT is exempt from corporation tax on qualifying income and expenditures, equates to the valuation having taken into gains of its property rental business providing various conditions account notional purchasers costs.
Rent is assumed to be are met.
It remains subject to corporation tax on non-exempt received quarterly in advance.
income and gains e. g. interest income, trading activity and development fees.
Yield shift A movement in the yield of a property asset, or like-for-like REITs must distribute at least 90% of the Groups income profits portfolio, over a given year.
Yield compression is a commonlyfrom its tax exempt property rental business, by way of dividend, used term for a reduction in yields.
known as a property income distribution.
These distributions can be subject to withholding tax at 20%.
Sustainability and corporate responsibility Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment If the Group distributes profits from the non-tax exempt Method BREEAM business, the distribution will be taxed as an ordinary dividend An environmental impact assessment method for non-domestic in the hands of the investors.
Performance is measured across a series of ratings: Rent reviews Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding.
Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in the lease typically Carbon emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 every five years and their purpose is usually to adjust the rent to Scope 1 direct emissions: the current market level at the review date.
For upwards only Scope 2 indirect emissions: and rent reviews, the rent will either remain at the same level or Scope 3 other indirect emissions.
increase if market rents are higher at the review date.
CDP Reversion The CDP is an organisation which works with shareholders and The reversion is the amount by which ERV is higher than the rent listed companies to facilitate the disclosure and reporting of roll of a property or portfolio.
The reversion is derived from climate change data and information.
contractual rental increases, rent reviews, lease renewals and the letting of space that is vacant and available to occupy or Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA under development or refurbishment.
The government department responsible for environmental protection, food production and standards, agriculture, fisheries Scrip dividend and rural communities in the United Kingdom.
Derwent London plc sometimes offers its shareholders the opportunity to receive dividends in the form of shares instead Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB of cash.
This is known as a scrip dividend.
The Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark is an initiative set up to assess the environmental and social performance of Total property return TPR public and private real estate investments and allow investors to Total property return is a performance measure calculated by understand their performance.
the IPD and defined in the MSCI Global Methodology Standards for Real Estate Investment as the percentage value change plus Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous net income accrual, relative to the capital employed.
Occurrences Regulations RIDDORs The regulations place a legal duty on employers to report Total return work-related deaths, major injuries or over-three-day injuries, The movement in EPRA adjusted net asset value per share on work related diseases and dangerous occurrences near miss a diluted basis between the beginning and the end of each accidents to the Health and Safety Executive.
financial year plus the dividend per share paid during the year expressed as a percentage of the EPRA net asset value per share Transmission and distribution T&D on a diluted basis at the beginning of the year.
The emissions associated with the transmission and distribution losses in the grid from the transportation of electricity from its Total shareholder return TSR generation source.
The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the year, Well to tank WTT expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning The emissions associated with extracting, refining and of the year.
transporting raw fuel to the vehicle, asset or process under scrutiny.
Underlying portfolio Properties that have been held for the whole of the year i. e. excluding any acquisitions or disposals made during the year.
Back cover image: White Collar Factory EC1 This page: The White Chapel Building E1 Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com Printed by Empress Litho Limited Derwent London plc Registered office: 25 Savile Row London W1S 2ER T 44 0 20 7659 3000 www.
