116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity the report of the Remuneration Committee and the financial of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law a companys performance, business model and strategy.
the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state on pages 74 and 75 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and statements, the Directors are required to: fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit select suitable accounting policies and then apply of the Group: and them consistently: the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development make judgements and accounting estimates that are and performance of the business and the position of the reasonable and prudent: Group, together with a description of the principal risks and state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European uncertainties that it faces.
Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: On behalf of the Board prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will John D. Burns Damian M. A. Wisniewski continue in business.
Chief Executive Officer Finance Director The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 28 February 2017 records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the report of the Remuneration Committee comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
