Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 59 12 14 New Fetter Lane, EC4 abuilding with  Pre-let to Bird & Bird prior to construction commitment, our142,500 sq ft ofce development in the heart of Midtown was forward sold to TIAA-CREF in December 2014.
Completed in November 2015, the property achieved a BREEAM Excellent rating with a score of 76.3% and an EPC Rating of B.
We delivered a 30% improvement over Building Regulations Part L 2010 energy efficiency requirements with a 40% improvement in water consumption over the BREEAM baseline.
This equates to an estimated saving of 17litres per person per day.
Biodiversity measures were incorporated into the design at the outset.
This included the creation of a large bio-diverse roof and sedum green roof on terraces to provide a new habitat for invertebrates.
Additionally, a House Sparrow terrace and bat and bird boxes were provided at roof level for local priority species.
As part of the lease with Bird & Bird it was agreed that, in order to ensure the maintenance of biodiversity measures, a biodiversity champion would be appointed by the tenant.
The property achieved full FSC Project Certication under the FSC Chain of Custody Scheme.
In addition to delivering impressive environmental performance, the team also engaged an employment and skills manager to work with the local unemployment support agencies within the surrounding boroughs.
The manager worked closely with Jobcentre Plus, work brokerages, local colleges, voluntary and community groups and welfare to work providers.
Eleven people secured work through this engagement, whilst a further 26 people gained careers and learning opportunities on a temporary basis on-site.
The site was also awarded the Considerate Contractor Schemes Gold Award by the City of London in two consecutive years.
Throughout the project our team liaised with Bird & Bird to ensure that they were involved at key milestones during the development process.
Training videos were provided during the commissioning process to ensure that when the building was handed over the tenants facilities management team were fully briefed on how building systems functioned.
