132 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation Great Portland Estates plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 175.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties, financial instruments and pension liability.
The financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis asexplained in the Report of the Directors on page 122.
Key accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the financial statements.
The directors believe that the judgements made in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
Critical accounting judgements include the adoption of the external portfolio valuation without adjustment, the recognition of purchases and disposal of assets and the adoption of a single reporting segment.
The accounting policies for these areas of judgement areset out in the accounting policies below.
New accounting standards During the year ended 31 March 2016, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the Group: Amendments to IAS19 Employee Benets Contributions from employees or third parties that are linked to service Amendments to IFRS Annual Improvements cycle 2010-2012 Amendments to IFRS Annual Improvements cycle 2011-2013 The adoption of the Standards and Interpretations has not signicantly impacted these financial statements.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : Amendments to IFRS Annual Improvements cycle 2012-2014 Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 7 Disclosure Initiatives Amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases The directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings for theyear ended 31 March 2016.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control is assumed when the Group directs the financial and operating policies of an entity to benefit from its activities.
