174 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Glossary Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Non-PIDs Methodology BREEAM Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable Building Research Establishment method of assessing, residual business.
rating and certifying the sustainability of buildings.
PMI Core West End Purchasing Managers Index.
Areas of London with W1 and SW1 postcodes.
Portfolio Internal Rate of Return IRR Earnings Per Share EPS The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied profit after tax divided by the weighted average number tothe projected cash ows from the portfolio would result ofordinary shares in issue.
EPRA adjustments Property Income Distributions PIDs Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and NAV Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property as setout by the European Public Real Estate Association rental business.
EPRA intheir BestPractice and Policy Recommendations.
REIT Estimated Rental Value ERV UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
The market rental value of lettable space as estimated bytheCompanys valuers at each balance sheet date.
Rent roll The annual contracted rental income.
Fair value Investment property The amount as estimated by the Companys valuers for Reversionary or under-rented which aproperty should exchange on the date of valuation The percentage by which ERV exceeds rents passing, between awilling buyer and a willing seller in an armstogetherwith the estimated rental value of vacant space.
length transaction after proper marketing wherein the Reversionary yield parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once without compulsion.
In line withmarket practice, values therent reaches the ERV.
arestated net of purchasers costs.
Total Property Return TPR IPD Capital growth in the portfolio plus net rental income The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a derived fromholding these properties plus profit on sale of company that produces an independent benchmark of disposals expressed as a percentage return on the periods property returns.
IPD central London Total Shareholder Return TSR An index, compiled by IPD, of the central and inner London The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the properties in their March annual valued universes.
London Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received Like-for-like portfolio for the period expressed as a percentage of the share price Properties that have been held for the whole of the period at the beginning of the period.
Triple net asset value NNNAV Loan To Value LTV NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups Total bank loans, private placement notes, convertible financial liabilities on a diluted basis.
bonds at nominal value and debenture stock, net ofcash including our share of jointventures balances, expressed True equivalent yield asapercentage of the market value ofthe property The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash portfolio including our share of joint ventures.
ows from an investment property, including current rent, reversions tocurrent market rent and such items as voids Net assets per share or Net Asset Value NAV and expenditures, equates to the market value having taken Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of into account notional purchasers costs.
Assumes rent is ordinary shares at the balance sheet date.
Net gearing Vacancy rate Total Group borrowings including the convertible bonds The element of a property which is unoccupied but available at nominal value less short-term deposits and cash as forletting, expressed as the ERV of the vacant space divided apercentage of equity shareholders funds, calculated in bytheERV of the total portfolio.
accordance with our bank covenants.
Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term WAULT Net initial yield The Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term expressed Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage in years.
of the investment property valuation having added notional purchasers costs.
