Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 161 Notes forming part of the Company financial statements i Accounting policies Accounting convention The Company changed its basis of accounting with effect from 1 April 2015, from UK GAAP which the Financial Reporting Committee FRC announced should change for all relevant companies from that date to FRS 101.
The reason for choosing FRS101 is that it is based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as endorsed by the European Union, and currently used for the Group financial statements.
It was therefore proposed that the Companys basis of accounting be changed from UK GAAP to FRS 101 with effect from 1 April 2015.
The prior year financial statements were prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and have been re-stated for material adjustments on adoption of FRS 101 in the current year.
The last financial statements under a previous GAAP UK GAAP were for the year ended 31 March 2015 and the date of transition to FRS 101 was therefore 1 April 2014.
The movement in total equity due to the change in accounting framework from UK GAAP to FRS 101 is wholly attributable to carrying the investments in subsidiaries at cost less impairment under FRS 101 rather than at directors valuation under UK GAAP see note viii.
Movements in equity are detailed within the statement of changes in equity on page 160.
Previously under UK GAAP the Companys derivatives were held at fair value, consequently there has been no effect on the balance sheet as a result of the other changes in the accounting framework.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the goods and services.
Disclosure exemptions adopted In preparing these financial statements Great Portland Estates plc has taken advantage of all disclosure exemptions conferred by FRS 101.
Therefore these financial statements do not include: certain comparative information as otherwise required by EU endorsed IFRS: certain disclosures regarding the Companys capital: a statement of cash ows: certain disclosures in respect of financial instruments: the effect of future accounting standards not yet adopted: and disclosure of related party transactions with wholly-owned members of the Group.
The above disclosure exemptions have been adopted because equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated Group accounts into which Great Portland Estates plc is consolidated.
Subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures Shares in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are carried at amounts equal to their original cost less any provision to impairment.
Other Accounting policies for share-based payments, other investment, deferred tax and financial instruments are the same as those of the Group and are set out on pages 132 to 135.
The Company, together with another Group company, contributes to a dened benefit pension scheme for its employees.
The Companys share in the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme cannot be readily determined on a consistent and measurable basis.
As a result, the directors consider it appropriate to account for the contributions to the scheme as if it were a dened contribution scheme.
Accordingly, the directors have taken the multi-employer exemption allowable under the accounting standards.
Details of the Groups pension plan can be found on pages 153 and 154. ii profit attributable to members of the parent undertaking As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The profit dealt within the financial statements of the Company was 357.9 million 2015: loss of 6.9 million.
The employees of the Company are the directors and the Company Secretary.
Full disclosure of the directors remuneration can be found on pages 96 to 120.
