Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 175 Shareholders information Shareholder enquiries Payment of dividends All enquiries relating to holdings of shares, bonds or If you would like your dividends interest paid directly into debentures inGreat Portland Estates, including notication yourbankor building society account, you should write of change of address, queries regarding dividend interest to CapitaRegistrars, including details of your nominated payments or the loss of a certicate, should be addressed to account.
Although this will enable your dividend interest to the Companys registrars: be paid directlyinto your account, your tax voucher will still be sent toyourregistered address.
Capita Registrars The Registry Tax consequences of REIT status 34 Beckenham Road As a REIT, dividend payments must be split between Beckenham PIDsandnon-PIDs.
Information in respect of the tax Kent consequences for shareholders of receiving dividends BR3 4TU canbefound on the Companys website at Tel: 0871 664 0300 www.
co. uk investors  reits E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Share dealing service Calls cost 12 pence per minute plus network extras: An online and telephone dealing service is available for UK linesareopen 9.00am5.30pm Monday to Friday.
For further information If you are calling from overseas please dial 44 371 664 0300 onthisservice, or to buy and sell shares, please contact: Unsolicited telephone calls Boiler room scams Online dealing www.
com Over the last year, some of our shareholders have received Telephone dealing 0371 664 0445 unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters from organisations or persons Calls are charged at the standard geographical rate claiming or implying that they have some connection with and willvary by provider: lines are open 8.00am4.30pm the Company.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target Website UKshareholders offering to sell them shares that often turn The Company has a corporate website, which holds, out tobeworthless or non-existent, or an inated price for amongst otherinformation, a copy of our latest Annual shares they own.
These operations are commonly known as Report and Accounts, alist ofproperties held by the Group boiler rooms.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of and copies  released over the any offers ofunsolicited advice, discounted shares, premium last 12 months.
co. uk prices for sharesthey own orfreereports into the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Company Secretary ensure you get the correct name of the person andrm: Desna Martin, BCom FCA Aust ACIS Registered ofce check that the rm is on the Financial Conduct 33 Cavendish Square Authority FCA Register to ensure they are authorised at London W1G 0PW www.
do Tel: 020 7647 3000 use the details on the FCA Register to contact the rm: Fax: 020 7016 5500 call theFCA Consumer Helpline 0800 111 6768 if there Registered number: 596137 are nocontact details in the Register or you are told they are out ofdate:and if the calls persist, hang up.
If you use an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares, you will nothave access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
