STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registrar in the United Kingdom Key contact details Capita Asset Services Registered office and principal UK address The Registry Hammerson plc 34 Beckenham Road Kings Place Beckenham 90 York Way Kent London BR3 4TU N1 9GE Tel: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone Registered in England No.
360632 companys access charge or 44 371 664 0300 from overseas calls Tel: 44 0 20 7887 1000 outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding Principal address in Ireland public holidays in England and Wales.
Hammerson Group Management Limited Email: shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk Regus Dublin Website: www.
Harcourt Centre Harcourt Street Registering on the Hammerson Share Portal website enables Dublin shareholders to view their shareholding in the Company, including D02 HW77 an indicative share price and valuation, a transaction audit trail and dividend payment history.
Shareholders can also amend certain Tel: 353 0 1695 0550 standing data relating to their accounts.
In July 2017 the principal Irish address will move to: Transfer Secretaries in South Africa Hammerson Group Management Limited Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited Pembroke District Rosebank Towers Dundrum Town Centre 15 Biermann Avenue Dublin 14 Rosebank 2196 Principal address in France South Africa or PO Box 61051 Hammerson France SAS Marshalltown 2107 40 48 rue Cambon South Africa 75001 Paris Tel: 0861 100 950 local in South Africa Tel: 33 0 156 69 30 00 Email: web.
co. za Advisors Annual General Meeting Valuers: Cushman & Wakefield LLP The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on Auditor: Deloitte LLP resigning at the Annual General Meeting, 25 April 2017 at Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GE.
 LLP to be appointed at the Annual Details of the Meeting and the resolutions to be voted upon General Meeting can be found in the Notice of Meeting which is available at Solicitor: Herbert Smith Freehills LLP www.
Joint Brokers and Financial Advisors: J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Deutsche Bank AG Payment of dividends to mandated accounts Financial Advisor:Lazard Ltd. UK shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid Joint South African Sponsors: Deutsche Securities SA direct to a bank or building society account and who wish to do Proprietary Limited and Java Capital Proprietary Limited so should complete a mandate instruction available from the Shareholder administration Registrar or register their mandate at: www.
Under this arrangement, dividend confirmations are sent to the For assistance with queries about the administration of shareholders registered address.
shareholdings, such as lost share certificates, change of address, change of ownership or dividend payments, please contact the Multiple accounts relevant Registrar or transfer secretaries.
Shareholders who receive more than one copy of communications from the Company may have more than one account in their name on the Companys register of members.
Any shareholder wishing to amalgamate such holdings should contact the Registrar.
COM 191 Shareholder Information continued UK Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP ShareGift Shareholders can reinvest dividend payments in additional Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of shares in the Company under the DRIP operated by the which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider Registrar by completing an application form online at: donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity www.
administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited registered charity number: 1052686, registered company Elections to participate in the DRIP or cancellation of previous number: 3150478.
Further information about ShareGift is instructions in respect of the final dividend must be received available at: www.
uk or by writing to ShareGift, The by the Companys Registrar no later than 25 days before the Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited, 17 Carlton House Terrace, dividend payment date.
The DRIP will continue to be available to London, SW1Y 5AH or by telephone on 44 0 20 7930 3737. shareholders who have already completed an application form.
Such shareholders should take no action unless they wish to Strate Charity Shares receive their dividend in cash, in which case they should contact South African shareholders for whom the cost of selling their the Registrar to cancel their instruction.
shares would exceed the market value of such shares may wish to consider donating them to charity.
An independent non-profit South African DRIP organisation called Strate Charity Shares has been established Shareholders registered on the South African branch register to administer this process.
For further details, queries and or who hold their shares through the Strate system and who wish to donations contact the Strate Share Care toll free help line on participate in the DRIP should contact their Central Securities 0800 202 363 if calling from South Africa or 27 11 870 8207 Depository Participants.
if calling from outside South Africa.
Scrip Dividend Alternative Scrip Email: charityshares@computershare.
co. za The Board has decided not to offer shareholders a Scrip for the final Website: www.
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Website International payment service The Annual Report and other information that shareholders The UK Registrar facilitates a service to convert sterling dividends may find useful are available on the Companys website: payable to shareholders on the UK share register into certain local www.
The Company operates a service whereby currencies.
For further information, please contact the Registrar all registered users can choose to receive via email notice of address listed above or call 44 0 371 664 0300.
Calls are all Company announcements which can also be viewed on charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international UK Real Estate Investment Trust REIT taxation rate.
Lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
As a UK REIT, Hammerson plc is exempt from corporation tax on rental income and gains on UK investment properties but Email: ips@capita.
co. uk is required to pay Property Income Distributions PIDs.
UK Further details can be found at: shareholders will be taxed on PIDs received at their full marginal http: international.
A REIT may in addition pay normal dividends.
For most shareholders, PIDs will be paid after deducting Capita share dealing services withholding tax at the basic rate.
However, certain categories of UK An online and telephone dealing facility is available to shareholders shareholder are entitled to receive PIDs without withholding tax, wishing to deal in shares on the UK share register, providing principally UK resident companies, UK public bodies, UK pension shareholders with an easy-to-access and simple-to-use service.
funds and managers of ISAs, PEPs and Child Trust Funds.
Further There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated information on UK REITs is available on the Companys website, forms to fill in.
The online and telephone dealing service allows including a form to be used by shareholders to certify if they qualify shareholders to trade real time at a known price that will be given to receive PIDs without withholding tax.
to them at the time they give their instruction.
This is subject to a credit check for shareholders dealing in shares valued at more than PIDs paid to overseas shareholders are subject to withholding tax the sterling equivalent of 15,000. at 20%.
South African shareholders may apply to Her Majestys Revenue and Customs after payment of the PID for a refund For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, of the difference between the 20% withholding tax and the please call Capita on 44 0 371 664 0445.
Calls are charged at the prevailing UK South African double tax treaty rate.
South African standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside shareholders will have no further liability to dividends tax in the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Other overseas shareholders may be eligible to apply are open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public for similar refunds of UK withholding tax under the terms of the holidays in England and Wales.
com 192 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Normal dividends paid to overseas shareholders are paid gross Shareholder security but may be subject to taxation in the shareholders country of Share fraud includes scams where fraudsters cold-call investors residence.
For South African shareholders, dividends tax at 15% offering them overpriced, worthless or non-existent shares, or offer will be withheld and paid over to the South African Revenue to buy shares owned by investors at an inflated price.
We advise Service on the shareholders behalf.
Certain shareholders, shareholders to be vigilant of unsolicited mail or telephone calls including South African tax resident companies, retirement regarding buying or selling shares.
For more information visit: funds and approved public benefit organisations are exempt from www.
uk scams or call the FCA Consumer Helpline on dividends tax but it is the responsibility of each shareholder to seek 0800 111 6768. their own advice.
Dividends tax does not apply to scrip dividends, Primary and Secondary Listing whether paid as a PID or a normal dividend.
The Company has its primary listing on the London Stock Unsolicited mail Exchange and a secondary inward listing on the Johannesburg Hammerson is obliged by law to make its share register available Stock Exchange.
on request to other organisations.
This may result in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
To limit the receipt of unsolicited mail UK shareholders may register with the Mailing Preference Service, an independent organisation whose services are free, by visiting www.
Once a shareholders name and address details have been registered, it will advise the companies and other bodies that subscribe to the service not to send unsolicited mail to the address registered.
Financial Calendar Table 111 Recommended final dividend Last day to effect removal of shares between the United Kingdom UK and South 6 March 2017 African SA registers Currency conversion announcement released 7 March 2017 Last day to trade on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE to qualify for 14 March 2017 the dividend Ex-dividend on the JSE from commencement of trading on 15 March 2017 Ex-dividend on the London Stock Exchange from the commencement of 16 March 2017 trading on Record date applicable to both the UK principal register and the SA 17 March 2017 branch register Removal of shares between the UK and SA registers permissible from 20 March 2017 Last day for receipt of Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP mandates by Central 24 March 2017 Securities Depository Participants CSDPs Last day for receipt of DRIP elections to SA Transfer Secretaries 27 March 2017 by 1.00pm SA time Last day for receipt of DRIP elections by UK Registrars 2 April 2017 Annual General Meeting 25 April 2017 Final dividend payable UK 27 April 2017 Final dividend payable SA 28 April 2017 DRIP purchases settlement date subject to market conditions and the purchase of 5 May 2017 shares in the open market Anticipated 2017 interim dividend October 2017 HAMMERSON.
