GLOSSARY Reported amounts adjusted in accordance with EPRA guidelines to exclude certain items as set out in Adjusted figures per share note 10 to the accounts.
An major store, usually a department, variety or DIY store or supermarket, occupying a large unit Anchor store within a shopping centre or retail park, which serves as a draw to other retailers and consumers.
The cost of finance expressed as a percentage of the weighted average of borrowings during Average cost of borrowing or the period.
weighted average interest rate WAIR British Council of Shopping Centres.
A not-for-profit professional body supporting the retail property BCSC industry which undertakes research and lobbies government on behalf of its members.
An environmental rating assessed under the Building Research Establishments Environmental BREEAM Assessment Method.
CAGR The change in property value during the period after taking account of capital expenditure and Capital return exchange translation movements, calculated on a monthly time-weighted basis.
A legal function in the UK by which land or property can be obtained to enable a development or Compulsory Purchase Order infrastructure scheme without the consent of the owner where there is a compelling case in the public CPO interest.
Total operating costs being property costs, administration costs less management fees as a Cost ratio or EPRA cost ratio percentage of gross rental income, after rents payable.
Both operating costs and gross rental income are adjusted for costs associated with inclusive leases.
A measure of inflation based on the weighted average of prices of consumer CPI goods and services.
Adjusted earnings per share divided by dividend per share.
Dividend cover Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders divided by the average number of shares in Earnings per share EPS issue during the period.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDA The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry body.
This organisation has issued EPRA Best Practice Recommendations with the intention of improving the transparency, comparability and relevance of the published results of listed real estate companies in Europe.
The capitalisation rate applied to future cash flows to calculate the gross property value.
The cash flows Equivalent yield true and reflect the timing of future rents resulting from lettings, lease renewals and rent reviews based on nominal current ERVs.
The true equivalent yield TEY assumes rents are received quarterly in advance.
The nominal equivalent yield NEY assumes rents are received annually in arrears.
The property true and nominal equivalent yields are determined by the Groups external valuers.
The estimated market rental value of the total lettable space in a property calculated by the Groups ERV external valuers.
It is calculated after deducting head and equity rents, and car parking and commercialisation running costs.
Proportionally consolidated net debt expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds.
Gearing Property value before deduction of purchasers costs, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
Gross property value or Gross asset value GAV Income from rents, car parks and commercial income, after accounting for the net effect of the Gross rental income GRI amortisation of lease incentives.
International Accounting Standard International Financial Reporting Standard.
IAS IFRS A lease, often for a short period of time, under which the rent is inclusive of costs such as service Inclusive lease charge, rates, utilities etc.
Instead, the landlord incurs these costs as part of the overall commercial arrangement.
The income derived from a property as a percentage of the property value, taking account of capital Income return expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a time-weighted basis.
Annual cash rents receivable net of head and equity rents and the cost of vacancy, and, in the case of Initial yield or Net initial France, net of an allowance for costs of approximately 5%, primarily for management fees, as a yield NIY percentage of gross property value, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
Rents receivable following the expiry of rent-free periods are not included.
Rent reviews are assumed to have been settled at the contractual review date at ERV.
Net rental income divided by net cost of finance before exceptional finance costs, capitalised interest Interest cover and change in fair value of derivatives.
An agreement with another party to exchange an interest or currency rate obligation for a preInterest rate or currency swap determined period of time.
or derivatives Investment Property Databank.
An organisation supplying independent market indices and portfolio IPD benchmarks to the property industry.
194 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY The percentage change in net rental income for completed investment properties owned throughout Like-for-like LFL NRI both current and prior periods, after taking account of exchange translation movements.
Net debt expressed as a percentage of the property portfolio value calculated on a proportionally LTV Loan to value consolidated basis.
Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
Net asset value NAV per share Income from rents, car parks and commercial income, after deducting head and equity rents payable, Net rental income NRI and other property related costs.
The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is let, expressed as a Occupancy rate percentage of the total ERV of that property or portfolio.
The proportion of a retailers sales compared with the total cost of occupation being: rent, business Occupational cost ratio OCR rates, service charge and insurance.
The amount, or percentage, by which the ERV falls short of rents passing, together with the estimated Over-rented rental value of vacant space.
The annual rental income receivable from an investment property, after any rent-free periods and Passing rents or rents passing after deducting head and equity rents and car parking and commercialisation running costs.
This may be more or less than the ERV see over-rented and reversionary or under-rented.
A lease signed with a tenant with a secure term greater than three years and where the unit is not Principal lease reconfigured.
This enables letting metrics to be stated on a comparable basis.
A lease signed with a tenant prior to the completion of a development.
Pre-let A dividend, generally subject to withholding tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay from its taxProperty Income Distribution exempt property rental business and which is taxable for UK-resident shareholders at their marginal PID tax rate.
The Groups non-wholly owned properties which management proportionally consolidates when Property interests reviewing the performance of the business.
These exclude the Groups premium outlets interests in Value Retail and VIA Outlets which are not proportionally consolidated.
The Groups shopping centre and retail park joint ventures which management proportionally Property joint ventures consolidate when reviewing the performance of the business, but exclude the Groups interests in the VIA Outlets joint venture.
Qualifying Investor Alternative Investment Fund.
A regulated tax regime in the Republic of Ireland QIAIF which exempts participants from Irish tax on property income and chargeable gains subject to certain requirements.
A tax regime which in the UK exempts participants from corporation REIT tax both on UK rental income and gains arising on UK investment property sales, subject to certain requirements.
The financial results as presented under IFRS which represent the Groups 100% owned properties Reported Group and joint operations, transactions and balances and equity accounted Groups interests in joint ventures and associates.
Capital growth and profit for the period expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds at Return on shareholders equity the beginning of the year, all excluding deferred tax and certain non-recurring items.
ROE The amount, or percentage, by which the ERV exceeds the rents passing, together with the estimated Reversionary or under-rented rental value of vacant space.
A measure of inflation based on the change in the cost of a representative sample RPI of retail goods and services.
A tax regime in France which exempts participants SIIC from the French tax on property income and gains subject to certain requirements.
All capital expenditure on a development project, including capitalised interest.
Total development cost TDC Net rental income and capital growth expressed as a percentage of the opening book value of property Total property return TPR adjusted for capital expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a monthly or total return time-weighted basis.
Dividends and capital growth in a Companys share price, expressed as a percentage of the share price Total shareholder return TSR at the beginning of the year.
Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
Turnover rent The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is currently available Vacancy rate for letting, expressed as a percentage of the ERV of that property or portfolio.
Owner and operator of luxury outlet Villages in Europe in which the Group has an investment.
Value Retail VR A premium outlets joint venture, in which the Group has an investment.
VIA owns and operates VIA Outlets VIA premium outlet centres in Europe.
Passing rents expressed as a percentage of the total development cost of a property.
