Notes to the financial statements 1.
General information Hansteen Holdings PLC is a company which was incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales on 27 October 2005.
TheCompany is required to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is 1st Floor, Pegasus House, 37-43 Sackville Street, London W1S 3DL.
The Groups principal activity is investing in mainly industrial properties in Continental Europe and the United Kingdom.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Adoption of new and revised standards In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2016.
Their adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 2 amendments Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IAS 7 amendments Disclosure Initiative IAS 12 amendments Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture IAS 40 amendments Transfers of Investment Property IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except as noted below: IFRS 9 may impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments: IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures although, as the Group is primarily a lessor of property and lease income is outside the scope of IFRS 15, the impact of this standard is not expected to be material: and IFRS 16 may have an impact on the reported assets, liabilities, income statement and cash flows of the Group.
Furthermore, extensive disclosures may be required by IFRS 16.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
The Group intends to undertake a detailed impact study over the course of the coming months.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as detailed in the Directors Report on pages 53 to 57 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of investment properties and certain financialinstruments.
70 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December.
Control is achieved when the Company: has the power over the investee: is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee: and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
In the consolidated balance sheet, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of subsidiaries acquired are initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date the Company gains control until the date when the Company ceases to control the subsidiary.
Adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes inequity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of the non-controlling interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interest of the Group except to the extent that the non-controlling interest has a binding obligation andis able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree, if any, over the net amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
Non-controlling interests in the acquiree are measured at the non-controlling shareholders proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable netassets.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period in which they arise.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period in which they arise except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unlessexchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups foreign currency translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Where a lease incentive is granted, which does not enhance the value of the property, or a rent-free period is granted, the effective cost is amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Property management fees are recognised in the period to which they relate.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Revenue from the sale of trading and investment properties is recognised when the significant risks and returns have been transferred to the buyer.
This generally coincides with the transfer of the legal title or the passing of possession to the buyer.
The profit on disposal of trading and investment properties is determined as the difference between the consideration received and the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement of the accounting period plus any additions in the period.
Share-based payments The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of options that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial model or the Companys share price less the discounted value of estimated future dividends, as appropriate.
The expected life used in the binomial model has been adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after the share of results of associates, profit on sale of subsidiaries and investment properties and fair value gains on investment properties, but before changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments, finance income, finance costs and foreign exchangemovements.
Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost.
If the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred and the amount of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Property, plant and equipment This comprises computer equipment and fixtures and fittings, which are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of computers, fixtures and fittings and office equipment, less residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Computer equipment three years Fixtures and fittings five years Investment properties Investment properties, which comprises freehold and leasehold property held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation, are treated as acquired when the Group assumes the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
Acquisitions of investment properties including related transaction costs and subsequent additions of a capital nature are initially recognised in the accounts at cost.
At each reporting date the investment properties are revalued to their fair values based on a professional valuation at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in profit or loss for the period in which they arise.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provisions for impairment.
72 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in therelevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made forimpairment.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The Groups liability for current and deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured on anon-discounted basis.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case thedeferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a netbasis.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL where the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future: or it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on afair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives that can be designated as FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would beimmaterial.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
Objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes inthe carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after theimpairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amountof the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
fide-recognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all therisks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial liability isclassified as held for trading if: it has been incurred principally for the purpose of disposal in the near future: or it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group isprovided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives that can be designated as at FVTPL.
74 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability.
The convertible bonds are designated as fair value through profit or loss and are presented on the balance sheet at fair value with all gains and losses, including the write off of issuance costs, recognised in the income statement within net financing costs.
The interest charge in respect of the coupon rate on the bonds has been recognised within net financing costs on an accruals basis.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and are subsequently measured at the higher of: the amount of the obligation under the contract, as determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets: and the amount initially recognised less, where appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with the revenue recognition policies set out above.
fide-recognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, including foreign exchange forward contracts and options and interest rate swaps and caps.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale, except investment properties, are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Investment properties classified as held for sale are carried at fair value.
Trading properties Trading properties are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are treated as acquired when the Group assumes the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
Cost includes development costs specifically attributable to properties in the course of development.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Allother leases are classified as operating leases.
When accounting for a lease of land and buildings, the Group considers the land and buildings elements separately.
Where only the buildings element of a property lease is classified as a finance lease, the ground rent payments for the land element are shown within operating leases.
TheGroup does not classify those land elements that are held under operating leases as investment property.
Leases the Group as lessor Rentals receivable under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
In the event that lease incentives are granted to a lessee, such incentives are recognised as an asset.
The aggregate cost of the incentives is recognised as a reduction in rental income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Leases the Group as lessee Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into an operating lease, such incentives are recognised as a liability.
The aggregate benefit of the incentives is recognised as a reduction in rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Where a property is held under a head lease classified as a finance lease, it is initially recognised as an asset as the sum of the premium paid on acquisition and the present value of minimum ground rent payments.
The corresponding rent liability to the head leaseholder is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows when the effect of the time value of money is material.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities.
In making these estimates and assumptions, the Directors make reference to historical experience and other factors that they consider to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations which are dealt with separately below, the Directors have made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Recognition of expense for share-based payments In determining whether an expense should be recognised in relation to the Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Directors are required to form ajudgement over the likelihood of an award vesting.
The current performance period runs from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018.
In determining whether it is appropriate to recognise a charge inthe financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, the Directors have performed detailed calculations to estimate the charge thatwould be required over the three-year performance period under various scenarios.
Such calculations require significant assumptions to be made over items such as future movements in exchange rates and future movements in the value of the investment property portfolio.
"Such assumptions are inevitably characterised by uncertainty and in performing their calculations at 31 December 2016, the Directors have been mindful of the fact that the current position regarding both ""Brexit"" and the political and economic environment in the Eurozone, significantly increases this uncertainty."
While it is hoped that the level of uncertainty over both will reduce over the three-year performance period, there can be no guarantee of this and it is likely that a degree of market volatility will be experienced, at least in the short term.
In view of this uncertainty, the challenging targets set under the terms of the Founder LTIP scheme and the fact that only one year of the three-year performance period has expired, the Directors concluded that the level of certainty attached to an award being made under the scheme at 31 December 2018 is not currently sufficient to justify acharge being recognised in the financial statements.
Recognition of deferred tax assets Determining the amount of tax losses to be recognised as deferred tax assets requires the Directors to estimate the level and probability of future taxable profits that those losses can be offset against, in each relevant entity and jurisdiction.
Details regarding deferred tax, including the judgements made regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets against future taxable profits, areset out in note 21.
76 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Accounting for one-off and complex transactions The Group frequently enters into transactions for the purchase and sale of investment property, associates, subsidiaries and other financial assets.
These transactions tend to be one-off and can be complex.
Accounting for the transactions requires judgements to be made over matters such as calculating any gain or loss, and deciding upon the presentation in the financial statements.
Transactions are disclosed and where their impact is significant then they are presented separately from the ongoing financial results of the Group.
During the year, the Group acquired the remaining units of Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust and Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust.
Details regarding the accounting applied to these transactions are set out in note 15.
Accounting for investments in associates Determining the appropriateness of accounting for investments in associates requires management to assess the control the Group has over an investee, specifically, the power the Group has over the investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of investor returns.
As noted above, during the year the Group acquired the remaining units of Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust.
As a result of this transaction, theGroups investment in Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust is now fully consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking.
Prior to this transaction, the Groups investment was equity accounted for, the Directors having formed a judgement that it should be classified as an associated undertaking.
This judgement was made on the basis that while the Group exercised significant influence, it did not at that time have control.
Further details regarding accounting for associated undertakings are set out in note 20.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty that may have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are set out below.
Investment property valuations In determining the fair value of investment properties there is a degree of uncertainty and judgement involved.
The valuations are based on a number of assumptions, the significant ones of which are the appropriate discount rates, estimates of future rental income and capital expenditure.
The Group uses external professional valuers to provide independent valuations of the investment properties.
Details of the investment property valuations undertaken during the year, including the significant assumptions made and inputs used in the valuation process, are set out in note 18.
Revenue and cost of sales An analysis of the Groups revenue and cost of sales is as follows: Group Group 2016 2015 m m Investment property rental income 109.4 81.2 Trading property sales 1.2 Property management fees 2.0 4.1 Revenue 112.6 85.3 Direct operating expenses relating to investment properties that generated rental income 14.2 12.5 Direct operating expenses relating to investment properties that did not generate rental income 0.5 Direct operating expenses 14.7 12.5 Cost of sales of trading properties 1.1 Reversal of previous write down of trading properties 2.3 Cost of sales 15.8 10.2 Gross profit 96.8 75.1 Including interest income of 0.1 million 2015: 0.3 million, total revenue was 112.7 million 2015: 85.6 million.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Normalised Income Profit and Normalised Total Profit Normalised Income Profit and Normalised Total Profit are adjusted measures intended to show the underlying earnings of the Group before fair value movements and other non-recurring or otherwise non-cash one-off items.
A reconciliation of the Normalised Income Profit and Normalised Total Profit to the profit before tax prepared in accordance with IFRS rules is set out below.
2016 2015 Share of Share of Group associates Total Group associates Total Group m m m m m m Investment property rental income 109.4 17.3 126.7 81.2 23.0 104.2 Direct operating expenses 14.7 2.4 17.1 12.5 3.0 15.5 Property management fees 2.0 2.0 4.1 4.1 Administrative expenses 20.7 2.2 22.9 18.9 3.2 22.1 Net interest payable 24.5 3.1 27.6 18.8 4.7 23.5 Normalised Income Profit 51.5 9.6 61.1 35.1 12.1 47.2 Profit on sale of investment properties 3.9 0.7 4.6 4.4 3.1 7.5 Profit on sale of trading properties 0.1 0.1 Total profits on sale of properties 4.0 0.7 4.7 4.4 3.1 7.5 Other operating income 0.2 0.2 1.2 0.3 1.5 Reversal of previous write down of trading properties 2.3 2.3 Profit on sale of investment in associate 4.7 4.7 Normalised Total Profit 55.7 10.3 66.0 47.7 15.5 63.2 Negative goodwill and other gains 4.3 1.0 5.3 10.9 10.9 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Founder LTIP charge 23.2 23.2 Impairment of goodwill 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Change in fair value of investment properties 43.4 2.4 45.8 110.8 20.2 131.0 Change in fair value of currency options 9.3 9.3 4.7 4.7 Change in fair value of interest rate swaps and caps 1.6 0.3 1.3 0.2 0.3 0.5 Change in fair value of convertible bonds 2.3 2.3 11.2 11.2 Foreign exchange gains losses 13.5 13.5 4.4 4.4 106.5 13.4 124.5 46.9 Profit before tax 119.9 171.4 Administrative expenses for 2015, as presented in Normalised Income Profit, excluded a charge of 24.9 million largely relating to the Founder LTIP and expenses relating to the sale of investments in associates.
No Founder LTIP charge has been recognised in the current year in relation to the potential bonus share award for the three-year period ending on 31 December 2018 2015: 23.2 million for the three-year period ended on 31 December 2015.
Further details are set out in note 33.
During 2016, the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the units in the Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust for a net price of 9.3 million, taking its ownership to 100% and resulting in a gain on business combination of 0.4 million.
The Group also acquired the remaining 18.2% of Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust for a net price of 39.5 million, taking its ownership to 100% and resulting in a gain on business combination of 3.9 million.
The Groups investments in Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust and Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust are now consolidated.
The remaining negative goodwill and other gains of 1.0 million 2015: 10.9 million relates to a gain recognised upon acquiring further units in the Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust while it continued to be classified as an associate.
Further details are set out in notes 15 and 20.
78 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 7.
Operating segments Segment revenues and results The Groups reportable segments are determined by geographic location, which represents the information reported to the Groups Directors for thepurposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
A segments result consists of its gross profit as detailed for the Group in note 5.
Administrative expenses and net finance costs are managed as central costs and are therefore not allocated to segments.
Gains losses oninvestment properties by segment are also presented below.
Revenue Result Revenue Result 2016 2016 2015 2015 Group m m m m Belgium 1.1 0.9 1.0 0.7 France 1.6 1.5 1.4 1.3 Germany 54.1 47.4 49.4 43.7 Netherlands 21.1 17.2 18.7 14.4 UK 34.7 29.8 14.8 15.0 Total segment result 112.6 96.8 85.3 75.1 Administrative expenses 21.1 43.8 Other operating income 0.2 1.2 Share of results of associates and profit on sale of associate 13.4 53.2 Negative goodwill and other gains 4.3 Changes in fair value of investment properties by segment: Belgium 0.2 France 0.2 2.1 Germany 19.1 76.6 Netherlands 8.9 14.7 UK 15.2 17.6 Total changes in fair value of investment properties 43.4 110.8 Profit on disposal of investment properties 3.9 4.4 Total gains on investment properties 47.3 115.2 Operating profit 140.9 200.9 Net finance costs 21.0 29.5 Profit before tax 119.9 171.4 Segment assets For the purposes of monitoring segment performance and allocated resources between segments, the Directors monitor the investment and trading properties attributable to each segment.
All assets are allocated to reportable segments with the exception of investments in associates and elements of cash, derivatives and tax balances that are managed centrally.
Includes investment properties held for sale.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Profit for the year Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging crediting: Group Group 2016 2015 m m Net foreign exchange gains losses 13.5 4.4 Acquisition and reorganisation costs income 0.1 0.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 Impairment of goodwill 0.3 0.3 Negative goodwill and other gains 4.3 Profit on sale of investment properties 3.9 4.4 Write-down of trading property 0.2 Reversal of previous write down of trading properties 2.3 Increase in fair value of investment properties 43.4 110.8 Auditors remuneration 0.6 0.5 Reduction in provision for bad and doubtful debts on trade receivables 2.0 0.8 Staff costs share-based payment charge including social security costs see note 9 1.5 23.8 Staff costs other see note 9 9.8 12.2 The analysis of administrative expenses is as follows: Group Group 2016 2015 m m Staff costs see note 9 11.3 36.0 Professional fees 4.2 3.5 Impairment of goodwill 0.3 0.3 Other 5.3 4.0 Total administrative expenses 21.1 43.8 The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: Group Group 2016 2015 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 0.5 0.5 Audit-related services Taxation compliance services 0.1 Total non-audit services 0.1 Total auditors remuneration 0.6 0.5 Fees for taxation compliance and advisory services comprise fees for UK and overseas income tax, VAT and property tax advisory services.
Details of the Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 29 to 32.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
80 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 9.
Staff costs The average monthly number of employees excluding Non-Executive Directors was: Group Group 2016 2015 Number Number Finance and administration 54 56 Property 41 43 95 99 Their aggregate remuneration was: m m Wages and salaries 8.2 10.3 Other social security costs 1.2 1.5 Pension costs 0.4 0.4 Share-based payments see note 33 1.4 19.5 Social security costs on share-based payments 0.1 4.3 11.3 36.0 Pension costs comprise amounts payable by the Group to personal pension schemes of employees.
The Company had no employees in either the current or preceding financial year.
Other operating income In 2016, other operating income includes 0.1 million insurance receipts and 0.1 million local authority reimbursements.
In 2015, other operating income includes 0.6 million from an option to purchase a property which was not utilised by the purchaser and 0.6 million insurance receipts.
Net finance costs Group Group 2016 2015 m m Interest receivable on bank deposits 0.1 0.3 Interest income 0.1 0.3 Interest payable on borrowings 24.5 19.0 Interest payable on obligations under finance leases 0.1 0.1 Net interest expense 24.5 18.8 Change in fair value of currency options 9.3 4.7 Change in fair value of interest rate swaps and caps 1.6 0.2 Change in fair value of convertible bonds 2.3 11.2 Foreign exchange gains losses 13.5 4.4 Net finance costs 21.0 29.5 Finance income 15.2 5.2 Finance costs 36.2 34.7 Net finance costs 21.0 29.5 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Tax Group Group 2016 2015 m m UK current tax Credit in respect of prior years 0.5 On net income of the current year 0.5 Foreign current tax Charge in respect of prior years 0.4 1.8 On net income of the current year 5.1 5.0 Total current tax 5.0 7.3 Deferred tax in respect of prior years see note 21 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax in respect of the current year see note 21 5.6 16.0 Total tax charge 10.4 23.1 UK corporation tax is calculated at 20.00% 2015: 20.25% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: Group Group 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 119.9 171.4 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.00% 2015: 20.25% 24.0 34.7 Tax effect of: UK tax not payable due to REIT exemption 8.2 9.1 Deferred tax assets not recognised 1.1 0.1 Effect of different tax rates in overseas subsidiaries 0.7 1.2 Income that is not in taxable profit 4.2 3.5 Change in deferred tax due to change in tax rate 0.5 0.5 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.3 1.6 Tax charge for the year 10.4 23.1 The Group elected to be a UK REIT in 2009 following admission to the Official List.
The UK REIT rules exempt the profits of the Groups property rental business from UK corporation tax.
Gains on UK properties are also exempt from tax provided they are not held for trading.
The Groups UK activities are otherwise subject to UK corporation tax.
To remain a UK REIT there are a number of conditions to be met in respect of the principal company of the Group, the Groups qualifying activity and its balance of business which are set out in the UK REIT legislation in the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Dividends Group Group 2016 2015 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: Second dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 3.15p 2015: 3.0p per share 23.4 20.5 Special dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of nil 2015: 3.0p per share 20.5 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 2.2p 2015: 2.1p per share 16.4 15.2 39.8 56.2 Amounts not recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: Proposed second dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 3.7p 2015: 3.15p per share 27.5 23.4 As a REIT, the Company is required to pay Property Income Distributions PIDs equal to at least 90% of the Groups exempted net income, after deduction of withholding tax at the basic rate currently 20%.
24.2 million of the dividends paid during the year ended 31 December 2016 is attributable to PIDs 2015: 20.4 million.
82 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 14.
Earnings per share and net asset value per share The European Public Real Estate Association EPRA has issued recommended bases for the calculation of certain earnings per share EPS information.
Diluted EPRA EPS is reconciled to the IFRS measure in the following table.
2016 2015 Weighted Weighted average Earnings average Earnings number of per number of per Earnings shares share Earnings shares share Group m m pence m m pence Normalised Income Profit see note 6 61.1 740.0 8.3 47.2 697.4 6.8 Normalised Total Profit see note 6 66.0 740.0 8.9 63.2 697.4 9.1 Basic EPS 109.5 740.0 14.8 148.2 697.4 21.3 Adjustments: Mark to market value of convertible bonds 14.9 16.4 Foreign exchange on convertible bonds 17.3 5.2 Interest charged in period on convertible bonds 3.3 2.9 Dilutive shares relating to convertible bonds 92.8 90.8 Dilutive shares relating to the profit share scheme 2.3 2.0 Dilutive shares relating to the Founder LTIP 45.8 Diluted EPS 115.2 835.1 13.8 162.3 836.0 19.4 Basic EPS 109.5 740.0 14.8 148.2 697.4 21.3 Adjustments: Revaluation gains on investment properties 43.4 110.8 Profit on the sale of investment properties 3.9 4.4 Net profit on option receipt 0.6 Impairment of goodwill 0.3 0.3 Profit on sale of trading properties 0.3 Cost of acquiring subsidiaries 0.2 Negative goodwill and other gains 4.3 Change in fair value of derivatives 7.7 4.9 Change in fair value of convertible bonds excluding foreign exchange 14.9 16.4 Adjustment in respect of associates 3.8 40.7 Deferred tax on the above items 5.7 16.6 EPRA EPS 52.6 740.0 7.1 20.3 697.4 2.9 Adjustments: Interest charged in period on convertible bonds 3.3 2.9 1 Foreign exchange on convertible bonds 5.2 Dilutive shares relating to convertible bonds 92.8 90.8 Dilutive shares relating to the profit share scheme 2.3 2.0 Dilutive shares relating to the Founder LTIP 45.8 Diluted EPRA EPS 55.9 835.1 6.7 18.0 836.0 2.2 1.
In accordance with EPRA Best Practices Recommendations, the diluted EPRA EPS for 2016 has not been adjusted for foreign exchange gains losses on the convertible bonds.
The comparative figure for 2015 has not been restated to reflect this change in the basis of calculation.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Earnings per share and net asset value per share continued The calculations for net asset value NAV per share are shown in the table below: 2016 2015 Equity Number Net asset Equity Number Net asset shareholders of value shareholders of value funds shares per share funds shares per share Group m m pence m m pence Basic NAV 923.6 745.1 124 806.2 766.3 105 Unexercised share options 2.1 1.7 Mark-to-market of convertible bonds 109.8 92.8 Diluted NAV 1,033.4 840.0 123 806.2 768.0 105 Adjustments: Revaluation of trading properties 0.2 Goodwill 0.3 Fair value of interest rate derivatives 2.2 5.2 Adjustments in respect of associates 0.6 Mark-to-market of convertible bonds 107.5 90.8 Deferred tax 47.3 35.8 EPRA NAV 1,082.9 840.0 129 955.2 858.8 111 15. Business combinations Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust At the beginning of the year the Group recognised 50% of the units in Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust as an associate.
On 4 March 2016, the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the units of Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust, previously equity accounted for as an associate, thereby obtaining 100% ownership and control.
Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust is a Jersey based unit trust which invests in Saltley Business Park, a multi-let industrial estate in Birmingham comprising over 95,000 sq m and with an annual rent roll of 3.2 million.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below: m Financial assets 2.1 Investment property 39.3 Financial liabilities 21.9 Total identifiable assets 19.5 Negative goodwill 0.4 Total consideration 19.1 Satisfied by: Cash 9.3 Total consideration transferred 9.3 Carrying value of existing equityaccounted interest 9.8 Total consideration 19.1 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 9.3 Less: cash balances acquired 1.1 8.2 The fair value of the financial assets includes trade receivables with a fair value of 0.6 million and a gross contractual value of 0.6 million, none of which at acquisition date were not expected to be collected.
The negative goodwill of 0.4 million arising from the acquisition results from the cash consideration paid being at a discount net asset value.
None of the bargain acquisition is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust contributed 2.4 million revenue and 1.8 million to the Groups profit for the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, the contribution to Group revenues for the period would have been 2.9 million and contribution to Group profit would have been 2.2 million.
84 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust At the beginning of the year the Group recognised associates including 81.8% of the units in Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust and 33.3% of the shares in Ashtenne Industrial General Partner Limited, both of whom own a share in Ashtenne Industrial Fund Limited Partnership of 99.97% and 0.03% respectively.
On 12 February 2016 the Group acquired a further 0.9% of the units in Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust for 2.5 million.
On 18 March 2016 the Group acquired a further 0.8% of the units in Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust for 2.1 million.
On 25 April 2016 the Group acquired a further 2.1% of the units in Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust for 5.6 million, taking the Groups ownership to 85.6%.
On 15 July 2016, the Group acquired the remaining 66.67% of the shares in Ashtenne Industrial General Partner Limited, thereby obtaining control over Ashtenne Industrial Fund Limited Partnership, of which the Group owned 85.6% through its unitholding in Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust.
Previously equity accounted for as an associate, as a result of the acquisition the Group consolidated 100% of Ashtenne Industrial Fund Limited Partnership and recognised a 14.4% minority interest.
On 26 and 27 July 2016, the Group acquired the remaining 14.4% of the units in Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust, thereby obtaining 100% ownership and control of the entity.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below: m Financial assets 21.6 Investment property 435.3 Financial liabilities 156.6 Total identifiable assets 300.3 Negative goodwill 3.9 Total consideration 296.4 Satisfied by: Cash 39.5 Total consideration transferred 39.5 Carrying value of existing equityaccounted interest 256.9 Total consideration 296.4 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 39.5 Less: cash balances acquired 9.6 29.9 The fair value of the financial assets includes trade receivables with a fair value of 4.5 million and a gross contractual value of 4.9 million, 0.4 million of which at acquisition date were not expected to be collected.
AIF Industrial Fund Limited Partnership recognised a provision in relation to a performance fee due to Hansteen Limited, who acted as asset manager to the Fund.
At 27 July 2016, the provision was 31.6 million.
No income had been recognised by Hansteen Limited and on consolidation the provision was eliminated.
The negative goodwill of 3.9 million arising from the acquisition results from the cash consideration paid being at a discount net asset value as a result of the performance fee provision adjustment above.
Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust contributed 15.6 million revenue and 23.3 million to the Groups profit for the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, the contribution to Group revenues for the period would have been 35.9 million and contribution to Group profit would have been 39.2 million.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Goodwill Group Group 2016 2015 m m Cost: At 1 January 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 0.6 0.6 Impairment: At 1 January 0.3 Impairment 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 0.6 0.3 Carrying amount: At 31 December 0.3 By segment: UK 0.3 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are any indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts are determined on the basis of fair value less costs to sell by reference to the valuation of the underlying properties as performed by external valuers.
During 2016, the goodwill that was allocated to the acquisition of the asset management business of Warner Estate Holdings plc in August 2013 of 0.3 million was impaired to nil.
During 2015, the goodwill that was allocated to the acquisition of the Spencer Group portfolio in 2011 was impaired by 0.3 million.
Property, plant and equipment Fixtures and Computer fittings equipment Total Group m m m Cost: At 1 January 2015 0.6 0.5 1.1 Additions 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2016 0.6 0.6 1.2 Additions 0.2 0.2 Disposals 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2016 0.6 0.6 1.2 Accumulated depreciation: At 1 January 2015 0.3 0.3 0.6 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 1 January 2016 0.4 0.4 0.8 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 0.2 Disposals 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2016 0.5 0.3 0.8 Net book value: At 31 December 2016 0.1 0.3 0.4 At 31 December 2015 0.2 0.2 0.4 86 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 18.
Investment property Group Group 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 1,059.1 953.9 1 Additions property purchases 479.3 68.0 capital expenditure 16.5 11.9 Lease incentives 2.6 0.9 Letting costs 0.2 Revaluation 43.4 110.8 Disposals 22.1 39.1 Transfer to investment property held for sale 10.4 1.6 Exchange adjustment 149.1 45.9 At 31 December 1,717.5 1,059.1 Investment property held for sale: At 1 January 1.6 7.5 Disposals 1.8 7.0 Transfer from investment property 10.4 1.6 Exchange adjustment 0.2 0.5 At 31 December 10.4 1.6 1.
Property purchase additions of 479.3 million includes 39.3 million and 435.3 million arising from the acquisition of the remaining units in Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust and Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust respectively, which were previously accounted for as associates.
Included within the property valuation is 9.1 million 2015: 2.6 million in respect of tenant lease incentives granted.
Investment property includes 3.0 million of property 2015: 2.6 million held under finance leases.
Properties classified as held for sale at 31 December 2016 represent properties that were actively marketed as at the year-end and have subsequently been sold.
All investment properties are stated atfair value as at 31 December and have been valued by independent professionally qualified external valuers CBRE Limited, DTZ, Cushman & Wakefield Debenham Tie Leung Limited, Jones Lang LaSalle or Knight Frank LLP.
The valuations have been prepared in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards January 2014, published by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and with IVA1 of the International Valuation Standards.
The valuations are based on a number of assumptions, the significant ones of which are the determination of appropriate discount rates, estimates of future rental income and capital expenditure.
Rental income and yield assumptions are supported by market evidence where relevant.
The Group has pledged certain of its investment properties to secure bank loan facilities and a finance lease granted to the Group see note 27.
In accordance with IFRS 13, the Groups investment property has been assigned a valuation level in the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs Level 3.
TheGroups investment property as at 31 December 2016 is categorised as Level 3.
Investment properties are valued using a capitalisation methodology applying a yield to current and estimated rental income.
Yields and rental values are considered to be unobservable inputs and details of the ranges used in each region are as follows: Information about fair value measurements using unobservable inputs Level 3 Fair value at Rent per sq m Yield 31 December 2016 Min Max Min Max m % % Belgium 17.0 27.2 90.5 6.5 9.4 France 17.7 28.6 31.7 8.6 12.7 Germany 761.7 15.2 109.4 1.3 17.5 Netherlands 264.7 11.6 79.0 3.7 22.0 UK Industrial properties 646.4 6.1 158.4 1.8 14.4 UK Offices 20.4 23.1 625.7 3.1 19.1 Total 1,727.9 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 18.
Investment property continued Fair value at Rent per sq m Yield 31 December 2015 Min Max Min Max m % % Belgium 15.4 20.7 61.1 6.3 8.9 France 14.3 25.4 27.5 9.2 12.9 Germany 634.5 10.2 75.2 4.1 6.9 Netherlands 217.3 3.2 57.2 2.0 10.7 1 1 UK 179.2 9.7 134.6 4.1 9.9 Total 1,060.7 Everything else being equal, there is a positive relationship between rental values and the property valuation, such that an increase in rental values will increase the valuation of a property and vice versa.
However, the relationship between capitalisation yields and the property valuation is negative: therefore an increase in capitalisation yields will reduce the valuation of a property and vice versa.
There are interrelationships between these inputs as they are determined by the market conditions, and the valuation movement in any one period depends on the balance between them.
If these inputs move in opposite directions i. e. rental values increase and yields decrease valuation movements can be amplified, whereas ifthey move in the same direction they may be offset, reducing the overall net valuation movement.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had entered into contracts for 13.2 million 2015: 2.5 million of building works that were not complete.
Figures stated in 2015 have been amended from rent per sq feet to rent per sq m. 19.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings Company Company 2016 2015 m m Cost and net book value: Balance at 1 January 585.2 393.5 Additions 3.0 9.0 Recapitalisation of subsidiaries 73.2 242.8 Impairment of subsidiaries 0.2 60.1 Balance at 31 December 661.2 585.2 Of the 242.8 million capitalisation during 2015, 106.1 million was injected into a number of UK wholly owned subsidiaries as part of a corporate structure rationalisation.
Following the sale of assets to other Group companies from both these entities and from a new entity acquired for 9.0 million during the year, the Company received dividends of 96.0 million.
These entities were then wound up resulting in a write-down to the carrying value of the investments of 60.1 million.
No subsidiaries are excluded from consolidation.
88 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Details of the Companys subsidiaries at 31 December 2016 are as follows: Proportion of Proportion of ownership voting power Place of interest held incorporation % % Held directly Hansteen France SAS France 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Jersey Securities Limited Jersey A 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Jersey Investments Limited Jersey A 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Luxembourg Investments S. r. l Luxembourg 94.90 50.0 Hansteen Luxembourg S. r. l Luxembourg 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Netherlands B. V. Netherlands 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Netherlands 2 B. V. Netherlands 100.00 100.00 1 Ashtenne 2013 Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Ashtenne Industrial General Partner Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Belgium Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Europe Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen FM Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen General Partner Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen General Partner 2 Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Germany Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Germany 2 Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Germany 3 Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Germany Residential Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen Industrial Estates Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen Industrial Investments Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Land Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen LP Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen LP 2 Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen OBP Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Property Investments Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen SPI Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen SPO Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen STC Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Hansteen Office and Retail Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Held indirectly Arman B01 BVBA Belgium 100.00 100.00 I. P. I Nossegem NV Belgium 100.00 100.00 Small Island Management NV Belgium 100.00 100.00 Tycoons Immo BVBA Belgium 100.00 100.00 Waterloo Investments NV Belgium 100.00 100.00 Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust Jersey B 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust Jersey B 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Bad Schonborn S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Billbrook S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Borsigstrasse S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Braunschweig S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Bremen S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Cologne S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Delta GP S. r. l Luxembourg 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Dormagen S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Dusseldorf S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Geldern S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Germany 4 S. r. l Luxembourg 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Germany 5 S. r. l Luxembourg 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Germany 6 S. r. l Luxembourg 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Germany 7 S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Germany 8 S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Germany Holdings S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Gladbeck S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Gottmadingen S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Hannover S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings continued Proportion of Proportion of ownership voting power Place of interest held incorporation % % Hansteen Holzhauser Markt S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Ladbergen S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Leipzig S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Maisach S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Miraustrasse S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Neukirchen-Vluyn S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Neuss S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Paderborn S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Philipp-Reis Strasse S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Pleidelsheim S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Porschestrasse S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Querumer Forst S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Regensburg S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Rodenbach S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Soltau S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Tegel S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Troisdorf S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Viersen S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Waldstrasse S. r. l Luxembourg 99.74 99.74 Hansteen Ormix B. V. Netherlands 100.00 100.00 Ridderkerk Property B. V. Netherlands 100.00 100.00 Ashtenne Industrial Fund Nominee No 1 Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Ashtenne Industrial Fund Nominee No 2 Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Ashtenne AIF Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Ashtenne Caledonia Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Ashtenne Severnside Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Ashtenne Industrial Fund Limited Partnership United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Saltley Nominee No 1 Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Hansteen Saltley Nominee No 2 Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1 Norwepp General Partner Limited United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 1.
Subsidiary in the process of being liquidated.
Each of the undertakings listed above is engaged in property development, investment or management.
The addresses of the registered offices of the above subsidiaries differ dependent upon their place of incorporation and are as follows: Place of incorporation Address of registered office Belgium Schalienhoevedreef 20J, B-2800 Mechelen, Brussels, Belgium France 13 rue Auber, 75009, Paris, France Jersey A 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PX Jersey B 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 5UT Luxembourg 5 Avenue Gaston Diderich, L-1420 Luxembourg, Grand-Duch fide Luxembourg Netherlands Ninth Floor, New Amsterdam Tower, Claude Debussylaan 163-165, 1082MC, Amsterdam, Netherlands United Kingdom First Floor, Pegasus House, 37-43 Sackville Street, London W1S 3DL, United Kingdom 90 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 20.
Investment in associates Group Group 2016 2015 m m Cost and net book value: Balance at 1 January 2016 261.3 156.4 Investment in associates 10.2 130.1 Share of results of associates 13.4 46.9 Distributions received 22.4 32.1 Distributions accrued 4.2 1.3 Disposal of associates 266.7 38.7 At 31 December 2016 261.3 During 2016, the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the units in the Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust HSUT for a net price of 9.3 million, taking its ownership to 100% and resulting in a gain on business combination of 0.4 million.
The Group also acquired the remaining 14.4% of Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust AIF for a net price of 39.5 million, taking its ownership to 100% and resulting in a gain on business combination of 3.9 million.
The Groups investments in HSUT and AIF are now consolidated.
Further details are given in note 15.
During 2015, the Group acquired a further 45.1% stake in AIF, bringing its total investment to 81.8%.
In May 2015 the Group disposed of its investment in Hansteen UK Industrial Property Unit Trust II HPUT II.
Distributions from associates HSUT AIF 2016 2015 m m m m Distributions received 0.5 21.9 22.4 32.1 Distributions accrued 0.3 3.9 4.2 1.3 0.2 18.0 18.2 33.4 Aggregated amounts relating to associates HSUT AIF 2016 2015 Summarised balance sheets m m m m Investment properties 475.7 Cash 21.6 Borrowings 157.0 Other net liabilities 13.4 Net assets 326.9 Non-current assets 475.7 Current assets 31.0 Non-current liabilities 157.8 Current liabilities 22.0 Net assets 326.9 HSUT AIF 2016 2015 m m m m Revenues 0.5 20.3 20.8 46.1 Profit 0.3 14.6 14.9 70.3 Total comprehensive income 0.3 14.6 14.9 70.3 The summarised financial information above represents amounts in the associates financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRSs but relating to the period of ownership by the Group.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Deferred tax 2016 Carrying Currency value of contracts and Short-term investment interest rate timing properties derivatives Losses differences Total Group m m m m m At 1 January 2016 39.1 1.0 1.7 0.6 35.8 Charge credit to income 5.4 0.3 0.3 5.4 Exchange differences 6.8 0.1 0.3 0.1 6.3 At 31 December 2016 51.3 1.1 2.3 0.4 47.5 Deferred tax assets 0.6 0.6 Deferred tax liabilities 51.3 0.5 2.3 0.4 48.1 2015 Carrying Currency value of contracts and Short-term investment interest rate timing properties derivatives Losses differences Total Group m m m m m At 1 January 2015 24.2 1.1 3.9 1.8 21.0 Charge credit to income 16.2 2.0 2.4 15.8 Exchange differences 1.3 0.1 0.2 1.0 At 31 December 2015 39.1 1.0 1.7 0.6 35.8 Deferred tax assets 0.6 0.6 Deferred tax liabilities 39.1 0.4 1.7 0.6 36.4 Carrying Currency value of contracts and Short-term investment interest rate timing properties derivatives Losses differences Total Company m m m m m At 1 January 2015 1.7 1.7 Charge to income 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2015 Credit to income 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2016 0.5 0.5 Deferred tax assets 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2016 the Group has unutilised tax losses of 81.5 million 2015: 55.5 million available for offset against future taxable profits.
Adeferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 9.1 million 2015: 6.1 million of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised inrespect of the remaining losses of 71.0 million 2015: 49.4 million and deductible temporary differences of 25.2 million 2015: 70.8 million due to the unpredictability of future taxable profits.
Unutilised losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised expire as follows: Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Losses Expiring in 2018 0.1 Expiring in 2019 0.3 1.4 Expiring in 2020 15.0 15.7 Expiring in 2021 Expiring in 2024 1.8 1.5 Carried forward without restriction 54.5 30.7 41.3 17.5 Total Losses 71.0 49.4 41.3 17.5 Deductible temporary differences no expiry date 25.2 70.8 7.5 39.3 The UK corporation tax rate will fall to 19% in April 2017 from the current rate of 20% and to 17% in April 2020.
The impact of these rate changes is not significant to the Group.
92 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 22.
Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to provide an economic hedge to its interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
Further details on interest rate and foreign exchange risks are included in note 36.
Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Currency options 9.8 9.8 Interest rate swaps 3.2 5.2 1.1 Interest rate caps 1.0 0.8 Convertible bonds 25.4 36.0 2.2 4.6 23.5 26.2 Non-current assets 2.1 0.4 1.9 0.4 Current assets 9.4 9.4 Non-current liabilities 4.3 5.2 25.4 36.0 Foreign currency derivative financial instruments Average contract exchange rate Notional principal amount Fair value 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group and Company EUR:GBP EUR:GBP m m m m Currency options buy sterling: sell euro In less than one year 1:1.600 1:1.321 57.9 195.5 9.4 In more than one year but less than two 1:1.600 49.6 0.4 57.9 245.1 9.8 Interest rate derivative financial instruments Average contract fixed interest rate Notional principal amount Fair value 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group % % m m m m Interest rate swaps receive floating pay fixed In less than one year 0.3 1.0 8.6 11.9 0.1 In more than one year but less than two 1.0 0.9 47.2 35.3 1.1 0.6 In more than two years but less than five 0.7 0.9 314.2 157.9 2.0 4.6 370.0 205.1 3.2 5.2 Interest rate caps receive floating pay fixed In less than one year 3.1 8.6 In more than one year but less than two 1.7 25.7 In more than two years but less than five 1.2 2.6 118.5 33.0 1.0 127.1 58.7 1.0 Average contract fixed interest rate Notional principal amount Fair value 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Company % % m m m m Interest rate swaps receive floating pay fixed In less than one year 1.0 11.9 In more than two years but less than five 0.3 150.0 1.1 150.0 11.9 1.1 Interest rate caps receive floating pay fixed In more than two years but less than five 0.3 50.0 0.8 50.0 0.8 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Trading properties Group Group 2016 2015 m m Balance at 1 January 10.8 6.7 Additions 0.2 1.8 Reversal of prior year write down 2.3 Write down 0.2 Disposals 0.8 Balance at 31 December 10.0 10.8 The carrying amount of trading properties approximates their fair value.
In 2015, part of a prior year write down was reversed as a result of an increase in the expected net realisable value of the trading properties.
Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Trade receivables 15.6 12.6 Less: allowance for bad and doubtful debts 3.1 5.1 12.5 7.5 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 249.5 106.0 Amounts owed by related parties 1.6 Other receivables 12.3 7.4 0.8 0.6 Prepayments and accrued income 6.3 8.1 0.1 0.1 31.1 24.6 250.4 106.7 The carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying value of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Included within cash and cash equivalents is 2.0 million 2015: nil of restricted cash.
Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Trade payables 18.9 7.8 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 123.6 98.5 Other payables 6.5 3.8 0.5 Accruals 16.7 20.4 0.6 7.3 Deferred income 11.9 6.9 54.0 38.9 124.7 105.8 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases by the Company is 15 days 2015: 15 days.
For most suppliers no interest is charged on the trade payables for the first 30 days from the date of the invoice.
Thereafter, interest is charged on the outstanding balances at various interest rates.
The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
94 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 27.
Borrowings Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Bank loans 712.5 433.5 280.0 77.5 Convertible bonds 109.8 107.5 Unamortised borrowing costs 8.3 4.8 2.0 0.5 814.0 536.2 278.0 77.0 Current liability 20.5 6.2 Non-current liability 793.5 530.0 278.0 77.0 The bank loans and convertible bonds are repayable as follows: Within one year or on demand 23.2 7.8 Between one and two years 201.1 66.9 Between three and five years 596.6 464.6 280.0 77.5 Over five years 1.4 1.7 822.3 541.0 280.0 77.5 Undrawn committed facilities Expiring between two and five years 58.6 17.5 50.0 17.5 Covenants Interest Facility Drawn Expiry Loan to value cover 20.0 million 20.0 million October 2017 60% 200% 100.0 million 100.0 million July 2018 104.1 million 104.1 million December 2018 65% 200% 187.6 million 187.6 million February 2019 65% 190% 50.0 million 40.0 million September 2019 65% 200% 143.5 million 143.5 million June 2021 65% 150% 330.0 million 280.0 million July 2021 55% 200% 5.3 million 5.3 million March 2025 With the exception of the 330.0 million facility which is secured through charges against the issued share capital of the relevant property owning entities, the facilities detailed above are secured by charges on property with an aggregate carrying value of 1,081.6 million 2015: 1,037.0 million.
In July 2013, Hansteen Jersey Securities Limited issued 100 million of convertible bonds with a coupon of 4.0%.
The bonds will, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, be convertible into ordinary shares of the Company.
The initial conversion price was set at a premium of 22.5% above the volume weighted average share price between launch and pricing, and will be subject to adjustments pursuant to the terms and conditions of the bonds.
Bonds were eligible for conversion at the option of the bond holder from 15 July 2016.
Under the terms of the bonds, the Company will have the right to elect to settle any conversion entirely in ordinary shares of the Company, cash or a combination of shares and cash.
If not previously converted, redeemed or purchased and cancelled, the bonds will be redeemed at par in July 2018.
The carrying amount of borrowings approximates their fair value.
Interest rate and currency profile 2016 2016 2015 2015 Group % m % m Euro 2.5 522.3 2.7 463.5 Sterling 2.2 300.0 2.3 77.5 2.4 822.3 2.6 541.0 The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to provide an economic hedge to its interest rate risk.
Further details on interest rate risk areincluded in note 36 and the interest rate derivatives are disclosed in note 22.
After taking into account the effect of the interest rate swaps the weighted average interest rates, excluding amortised borrowing costs, are 3.2% for the euro borrowings 2015: 3.4% and 2.4% for the sterling borrowings 2015: 2.5%.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Obligations under finance leases Present value of Minimum lease payments lease payments 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group m m m m Amounts payable under finance lease: Within one year 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 In the second to fifth years inclusive 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 After five years 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.5 2.9 2.7 2.6 2.4 Less: future finance charges 0.3 0.3 Present value of lease obligations 2.6 2.4 2.6 2.4 Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months 0.2 0.2 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 2.4 2.2 The finance lease is denominated in euro and has an outstanding term of seven years 2015: eight years.
For the year ended 31 December 2016 the interestrate implicit in the lease was 2.8% 2015: 2.8%.
Interest rates are fixed every five years, and interest rate and capital repayments adjusted to reflect this.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
The Groups obligations under the finance lease are secured by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
Provisions Group Group 2016 2015 m m Legal claims 0.7 Other 0.1 0.8 Current liabilities 0.1 Non-current liabilities 0.7 Legal claims Other Total m m m At 1 January 2016 Additional provisions in the year 0.7 0.1 0.8 At 31 December 2016 0.7 0.1 0.8 The legal claims provision represents managements best estimate of the Groups liability, based on legal advice, for the ongoing legal proceedings with a former tenant.
The other provision relates to legal fees on a pending property purchase which had not completed at 31 December 2016.
96 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 30.
Share capital Number of Number of shares 2016 shares 2015 m m m m Authorised, issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each At 1 January 721.5 72.2 685.6 68.6 Issue of equity shares 24.3 2.4 35.7 3.6 Share options exercised 0.2 At 31 December 745.8 74.6 721.5 72.2 The share capital comprises one class of ordinary shares carrying no right to fixed income.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding or the transfer of shares, except for UK REIT restrictions.
The issue of equity shares in 2016 relates to shares issued in respect of the Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan for the performance period ended 31 December 2015.
On 27 August 2015, pursuant to a placing and open offer, the Company raised gross proceeds of 40.0 million 39.4 million net of expenses through the issue of 35.7 million shares at a price of 112p per ordinary share.
During the year, the Company acquired some of its own shares in order to settle obligations under the Performance Share Plan.
Notes to the cash flow statement Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Profit for the year 109.5 148.3 56.7 64.8 Adjustments for: Share-based payments 1.4 19.5 1.4 19.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 Goodwill impairment 0.3 0.3 Share of profits of associate and gain on sale of associate 13.4 53.2 Negative goodwill and other gains 4.3 Profit on sale of investment properties 3.9 4.4 Reversal of prior year write down of trading properties 2.3 Fair value gains on investment properties 43.4 110.8 Impairment of investment in subsidiary 0.2 60.1 Dividends received 63.5 177.8 Net finance costs 21.0 29.5 4.2 12.1 Tax charge 10.4 23.1 0.5 1.7 Operating cash inflows outflows before movements in working capital 77.8 50.2 1.5 19.6 Decrease increase in trading properties 0.8 1.8 Decrease increase in receivables 1.4 2.4 165.9 42.6 Decrease increase in payables 7.1 6.3 39.3 36.5 Cash generated from used by operations 72.9 52.3 128.1 13.5 Income taxes paid 5.0 4.5 Interest paid 19.9 16.8 8.7 5.6 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 48.0 31.0 136.8 19.1 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Operating lease arrangements The Group as lessee As at the balance sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: Group Group 2016 2015 m m Within one year 1.8 1.4 In the second to fifth years inclusive 5.1 4.6 After five years 28.5 30.9 35.4 36.9 The expense relating to operating leases in the year was 1.9 million 2015: 1.5 million.
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group under ground rent leases for land relating to certain of its buildings that are classified as investment properties, rentals payable in respect of its office properties and rentals for company cars.
The Group as lessor The Group leases all of its investment properties under operating leases.
As at the balance sheet date the Group had contracted with tenants for the following future aggregate minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases: Group Group 2016 2015 m m Within one year 116.6 72.9 In the second to fifth years inclusive 246.8 158.5 After five years 117.7 84.8 481.1 316.2 33.
Share-based payments During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group had two equity settled share schemes.
Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan Performance Share Plan The total share-based payment charge for the year under these schemes was 1.4 million 2015: 19.5 million.
Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP The Founders and Joint Chief Executives are entitled to a share award dependent on the growth in EPRA NAV.
The target for the Founder LTIP is that EPRA NAV per ordinary share after adding back dividends and other returns to shareholders must exceed a compound growth rate of 10% per annum in a three-year performance period.
The Founder LTIP has repeated to reward performance in each three-year period: the current performance period ending on 31 December 2018.
The value of the share award for each Chief Executive is calculated as 12.5% of the excess growth over the 10% growth target.
Any amount payable under the Founder LTIP is to be satisfied by the award of ordinary shares of the Company.
In 2015, the excess growth in EPRA NAV over the performance target over the performance period ended 31 December 2015 was 51.3 million and as such each Chief Executive was entitled to 22,906,127 ordinary shares in the Company.
The Joint Chief Executives agreed to forgo part of their awards under the Founder LTIP equal in value to their PAYE and Employees National Insurance liabilities due on the vesting of the awards, which were settled on their behalf by the Company.
After settlement of these PAYE and Employees National Insurance liabilities, which totalled in aggregate 23.5 million, each of the Joint Chief Executives were issued with 12.1 million shares instead of the full 22.9 million shares.
As explained in note 4, the total share-based payment charge recognised for the year under this scheme is nil 2015: 18.9 million with associated social security costs of 4.3 million for the three-year period ended 31 December 2015.
98 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP awards share options with a nil exercise price to Executive Directors and senior employees.
The number of options granted is calculated with reference to the employees salary and the share price prior to the grant date.
To reflect the fact that 2012 was a transitional year between the2005 Share Option Scheme and the PSP, two awards were granted to participants, one with a two-year performance period and one with a three-year performance period.
Vesting of the awards is staggered over the three years following the performance period, with one third vesting each year if performance targets are met.
Performance targets are based on Total Shareholder Return and Net Asset Value growth relative to a peer group of listed UK REITs.
Outstanding Outstanding Average Exercise at start of at end Number remaining life Year issued price year Granted Exercised Lapsed of year exercisable years 2012 nil 1,285,873 108,320 1,177,553 956,014 5.5 2013 nil 454,340 33,736 420,604 125,044 6.2 2014 nil 963,589 416,006 547,583 7.3 2015 nil 946,473 946,473 8.2 2016 nil 1,203,285 1,203,285 9.3 The total share-based payment charge for the year under this scheme was 1.4 million with associated social security costs of 0.1 million 2015:0.6 million and nil respectively.
The inputs to the PSP awards share options valuation were: 2016 2015 Closing share price at grant date 107.3p 115.5p Weighted average exercise price nil nil Weighted average fair value 78.1p 88.0p Expected volatility 19.21% 18.24% Expected life 5 years 5 years Risk free rate 0.49% 0.76% Expected volatility was calculated by reference to dividend adjusted share prices for a comparator group of companies.
Events after the balance sheet date A second dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 of 3.7p per share will be payable on 18 May 2017 to shareholders on the register on 21 April 2017.
Based on the number of shares in issue at 31 December 2016 this will result in a distribution of 27.5 million.
On 22 February 2017 the Board made an offer for the entire issued ordinary share capital of Industrial Multi Property Trust PLC IMPT.
Under the terms of the offer, IMPT shareholders will receive 300p in cash for each IMPT share held which values the entire issued ordinary share capital of IMPT at 25.2 million.
Hansteen has since acquired, as disclosed on 17 March 2017, 21.71% of IMPTs share capital and at the first close for the offer on 15 March 2017 had received valid acceptances of 28.44%, which in aggregate represent 50.15% of IMPTs share capital.
As stated in the Chairmans Review, we announced that contracts have been exchanged on terms for the sale of Hansteens German and Dutch portfolios.
More details are contained in the RNS announcement and a circular will be posted to shareholders shortly.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Related party transactions Group Trading transactions During the year, Group subsidiaries entered into trading transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: Amounts owed by related Provision of services parties 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Hansteen UK Industrial Property II Limited Partnership 0.6 Ashtenne Industrial Fund Limited Partnership 1.9 2.9 1.4 Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust 0.2 Apia Regional Office Fund 0.3 0.1 Norwepp Limited Partnership 0.1 0.1 1.9 4.1 1.6 The Group provides management services to companies controlled by its associates, which are made at prices comparable to those that would be charged for similar services provided to unrelated parties.
See note 20 for details of the Groups associates.
Remuneration of key management personnel The aggregate remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group and the Company, is set out below.
The remuneration is paid by Hansteen Limited and forms part of the management fee charged to the Company.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 41.
Group Group 2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.0 2.1 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.1 Share-based payments 0.5 50.4 2.7 52.6 Company Transactions with subsidiaries The Company enters into loans with its subsidiaries to provide long-term funding for their investment activities.
The Company is charged management fees by its management subsidiary, Hansteen Limited, which undertakes day-to-day management of the Group on behalf of the Company.
Surplus funds in subsidiary companies are loaned to the Company at LIBOR plus 1.75% to 2.50% 2015: 2.50% to 3.00% or EURIBOR plus 1.75% to 3.75% 2015: 1.75% to 3.75%.
Surplus funds in Hansteen Jersey Securities Limited are loaned at 5.13% 2015: 5.08% to fund acquisitions and working capital and deposit amounts are loaned at the standard current account interest rate.
A summary of the transactions with the subsidiaries is as follows: Company Company 2016 2015 m m Interest-bearing loans made to subsidiaries 168.8 32.2 Interest-bearing loans repaid by subsidiaries 42.8 1.6 Interest-bearing loans made by subsidiaries 8.2 1.8 Interest-bearing loans repaid to subsidiaries 0.9 16.4 Interest-free loans made to subsidiaries 4.5 Interest-free loans repaid by subsidiaries 32.2 Interest-free loans made by subsidiaries 4.2 0.9 Interest-free loans repaid to subsidiaries 0.5 Interest income received in respect of interest-bearing loans 3.6 2.4 Interest paid in respect of interest-bearing loans 4.9 4.8 Management fees charged to the Company 1.6 1.2 100 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The balances outstanding at the year-end from transactions with subsidiaries are as follows: Company Company 2016 2015 m m Amounts due from subsidiaries included in trade and other receivables 249.5 106.0 Amounts due to subsidiaries included in trade and other payables 123.6 98.5 125.9 7.5 36.
Financial instruments The table below sets out the categorisation of the financial instruments held by the Group at 31 December 2016.
The carrying amount of all financial instruments, other than those for which a valuation level has been given below, approximates to their fair values.
Where the financial instruments are held at fair value the valuation level indicates the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique.
The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs Level 3.
Ifthe inputs used to measure fair value fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the category level is based on the lowest priority level input that issignificant to the fair value measurement of the instrument in its entirety.
Group Group Company Company Valuation 2016 2015 2016 2015 level m m m m Financial assets Designated as held for trading Interest rate caps 2 1.0 0.8 Currency options 2 9.8 9.8 1.0 9.8 0.8 9.8 Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 24.8 16.5 250.3 106.6 Cash and cash deposits 82.5 63.4 34.8 43.4 107.3 79.9 285.1 150.0 108.3 89.7 285.9 159.8 Financial liabilities Designated as held for trading Interest rate swaps 2 3.2 5.2 1.1 Convertible bonds derivative 3 25.4 36.0 3.2 5.2 24.3 36.0 At fair value through profit and loss Convertible bonds 1 109.8 107.5 At amortised cost Obligations under finance leases 2.6 2.4 Borrowings 704.2 428.7 280.0 77.5 706.8 431.1 280.0 77.5 Other financial liabilities Payables and accruals 42.1 32.0 124.7 105.8 Current tax liabilities 6.6 6.1 1.1 0.8 48.7 38.1 125.8 106.6 868.5 581.9 430.1 220.1 Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings, the obligations under finance leases, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings, all as disclosed in the balance sheet.
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
The Groups management reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis in conjunction with the Board.
As part of this review, management considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital and debt.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Notes to the financial statements continued 36.
Financial instruments continued Net debt to equity ratio Group Group 2016 2015 m m Obligations under finance leases 2.6 2.4 Borrowings 704.2 428.7 Convertible bonds 109.8 107.5 Convertible bonds mark-to-market 24.0 34.0 Cash and cash equivalents 82.5 63.4 Net debt 710.1 441.2 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 923.6 806.2 Net debt to equity ratio 76.9% 54.7% Carrying value of investment and trading properties 1,737.9 1,071.5 Net debt to value ratio 40.9% 41.2% Reconciliation of movement in net debt in the year Group Group 2016 2015 m m Net debt at beginning of year 441.2 397.8 Cash flow Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 14.3 44.9 New bank loans raised net of expenses 567.3 84.0 Bank loans repaid 354.7 63.4 Repayments of obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.2 Other Foreign exchange movements recognised in equity 54.5 19.8 Foreign exchange movements recognised in the income statement 12.3 4.4 Amortisation of bank loan fees 4.0 2.3 710.1 441.2 Financial risk management objectives The Group monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks.
These risks include market risk including currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks by using derivative financial instruments to economically hedge these risk exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the Board and management on a continuous basis.
The Group does not enter into or trade in financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
The Groups management reports quarterly to the Board and bi-annually to the Audit Committee, an independent body that monitors risks and policies implemented to mitigate risk exposures.
Market risk The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including: interest rate swaps and caps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates: and forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on translation of the Groups investment in foreign operations which have the euro as their functional currency.
Foreign currency risk management The Groups exposure to foreign currency arises from the fact that there are foreign operations which transact business denominated in euro, withthe translation of the local trading performance and local net asset to sterling for each financial period and at each balance sheet date giving rise to an exposure to fluctuations in the sterling:euro exchange rate.
The Groups approach to managing this exposure is to fund investments in euro-denominated operations with equity and euro-denominated debt that is partly hedged by forward currency options to limit the overall exposure of the Group.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated financial instruments at the reporting date are as follows.
The carrying amount of the Groups non-financial instruments in euro-denominated operations is also presented.
102 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements GBP EUR Total 2016 m m m Financial instruments 270.5 498.0 768.5 Less principal amount of currency options 57.9 57.9 270.5 440.1 710.6 Non-financial instruments 671.3 1,013.1 1,684.4 Net exposure 400.8 573.0 973.8 GBP EUR Total 2015 m m m Financial instruments 59.9 446.9 506.8 Less principal amount of currency options 245.1 245.1 59.9 692.0 751.9 Non-financial instruments 454.6 844.3 1,298.9 Net exposure 394.7 152.3 547.0 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Group is exposed to the euro through its operations in Belgium, France, Germany and the Netherlands.
At 31 December 2016 the net assets of the Group were 924.2 million 2015: 806.7 million of which 518.5 million were denominated in euro 2015: 401.2 million.
At 31 December 2016 the Group had currency options in place to buy 42.2 million for 67.5 million 2015: 231.5 million for 317.5 million.
The table below shows the impact of a 10% strengthening or weakening of sterling against the euro in relation to financial instruments alone.
Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Increase foreign exchange rates by 10% Increase in profit before tax 3.6 15.2 1.9 23.1 Increase in other comprehensive income 37.6 42.4 Decrease foreign exchange rates by 10% Decrease in profit before tax 4.2 10.7 2.1 1.0 Decrease in other comprehensive income 46.0 51.8 Interest rate risk management The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at floating interest rates.
The risk is managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, by the use of interest rate swap contracts and interest rate capcontracts.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments during the year.
Increase decrease in profit before tax: Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Increase interest rates by 1% 3.4 2.7 0.5 0.6 Decrease interest rates by 1% 3.4 3.0 1.4 0.4 There would have been no effect on amounts recognised directly in equity.
Interest rate swap and cap contracts Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
Under interest rate cap contracts, the Group has limited its exposure to increases in interest rates by capping interest payable on its borrowings.
Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of issued fixed rate debt held and the cash flow exposures on the issued variable rate debt held.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 36.
Financial instruments continued Credit risk management Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in a financial loss to the Group.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is 107.3 million 2015: 79.9 million comprising trade and other receivables and cash and cash deposits.
The Groups principal credit risk is attributable primarily to its trade receivables of 12.5 million 2015: 7.5 million which consist principally of rents due from tenants.
The balance is low relative to both the current and net assets of the Group and the Company.
Potential customers are evaluated for creditworthiness and where necessary collateral is secured.
There is no concentration of credit risk within theportfolio to either geographical business segment or company as the Group has a well spread diverse customer base with no one customer accounting for more than 1.7% 2015: 1.4% of the gross rent roll.
Other receivables consist principally of tax and VAT receivables.
These items do not give rise to significant credit risk.
Cash deposits are held at banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Liquidity risk management Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which monitors the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements on a regular basis.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities.
As at 31 December 2016 the net debt to property value was 40.9% 2015: 41.2% and the Group had 656.3 million 2015: 34.3 million ofinvestment and trading properties that were not secured against the Groups borrowings.
Liquidity and interest risk tables The following table details the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative and derivative financial liabilities.
The tables have beendrawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest dates on which the Group can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the interest and foreign currency rates as at the reporting date.
Less than one One to two Two to five More than year years years five years Total Group m m m m m 2016 Borrowings 23.2 201.1 596.6 1.4 822.3 Interest on borrowings 19.7 17.8 24.1 0.1 61.7 Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.3 0.7 1.6 2.9 Interest rate swaps 2.5 2.4 1.2 6.1 Payables and accruals 42.1 42.1 87.8 221.6 622.6 3.1 935.1 2015 Borrowings 7.8 66.9 464.6 1.7 541.0 Interest on borrowings 14.3 13.2 12.7 0.2 40.4 Obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.2 0.7 1.6 2.7 Interest rate swaps 1.7 1.5 1.5 4.7 Payables and accruals 32.0 32.0 56.0 81.8 479.5 3.5 620.8 Less than one One to two Two to five More than year years years five years Total Company m m m m m 2016 Convertible bonds derivative 25.4 25.4 Borrowings 280.0 280.0 Payables and accruals 124.7 124.7 124.7 305.4 430.1 2015 Convertible bonds derivative 36.0 36.0 Borrowings 77.5 77.5 Payables and accruals 105.8 105.8 105.8 113.5 219.3 104 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Officers and advisers COMPANY SECRETARY PROPERTY VALUERS PRINCIPAL BANKERS Teresa Jane Furmston Jones Lang LaSalle The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC 30 Warwick Street Corporate Banking REGISTERED OFFICE London 3rd Floor W1B 5NH 2 Whitehall Quay First Floor Leeds Pegasus House Knight Frank LLP LS1 4HR 37-43 Sackville Street 1 Marsden Street London Manchester Landesbank Hessen-Thringen W1S 3DL M2 1HW  Sdwest Registered in England & Wales Girozentrale No.
5605371 Cushman & Wakefield Debenham Main Tower Tie Leung Limited Neue Mainzer Strae 52 58 STOCKBROKERS 43-45 Portman Square 60311 Frankfurt am Main Peel Hunt LLP London Germany Moor House W1H 6LY 120 London Wall HSBC Bank PLC London CBRE Limited 8 Canada Square EC2Y 5ET Henrietta House London Henrietta Place E14 5HQ AUDITOR London W1G 0NB ING Commercial Banking Deloitte LLP ING Real Estate Finance 2 New Street Square DTZ P. O.
Box 1800, 1000 BV Amsterdam London Parnassusweg 803 Bijlmerplein 888, 1102 MG Amsterdam EC4A 3BZ 1082 LZ Netherlands Amsterdam SOLICITORS Netherlands Barclays Bank PLC Jones Day LLP 2nd Floor 21 Tudor Street REGISTRARS 1 Park Row London Leeds Capita Asset Services EC4Y 0DJ LS51 5WU The Registry 34 Beckenham Road DLA Piper Scotland LLP Beckenham Rutland Square Kent Edinburgh BR3 4TU EH1 2AA Financial calendar Ex-Dividend Date 20 April 2017 Record Date 21 April 2017 Posting Dividend 17 May 2017 Dividend Payable 18 May 2017 Annual General Meeting 13 June 2017 Hansteen Holdings PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Hansteen Holdings PLC First Floor Pegasus House 37-43 Sackville St London W1S 3DL 020 7408 7000 www.
