Other information 179 Dividends The Directors of intu properties plc have proposed a final PID SPECIAL NOTE: dividend per ordinary share ISIN GB0006834344 of 9.4 pence UK shareholders 2015: 9.1 pence to bring the total dividend per ordinary share For those who are eligible for exemption from the 20 per for the year to 14.0 pence 2015: 13.7 pence.
A scrip dividend cent withholding tax and have not previously registered for alternative may be offered.
exemption, an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC Tax Exemption Declaration is available for download from the Investors The dividend may be partly paid as a Property Income section of the intu properties plc website intugroup.
co. uk, or Distribution PID and partly paid as a non-PID.
The PID on request to our UK registrars, Capita Asset Services.
Validly element will be subject to deduction of a 20 per cent completed forms must be received by Capita Asset Services no withholding tax unless exemptions apply please refer to the later than the dividend Record Date, as advised: otherwise the PID special note below.
Any non-PID element will be treated dividend will be paid after deduction of tax.
as an ordinary UK company dividend.
For South African shareholders, non-PID cash dividends may be subject to South African and other non-UK shareholders deduction of South African Dividends Tax at 20 per cent.
South African shareholders may apply to HMRC after payment of the dividend for a refund of the difference between the The following are the salient dates for the payment of the 20 per cent withholding tax and the UK South African double proposed final dividend.
taxation treaty rate of 15 per cent.
Other non-UK shareholders may be able to make similar claims for a refund of UK Thursday 6 April 2017 withholding tax deducted.
Refund application forms for all nonSterling Rand exchange rate struck UK shareholders are available for download from the Investors section of the intu properties plc website intugroup.
co. uk, or Friday 7 April 2017 on request to our South African registrars, Trifecta, or HMRC.
Sterling Rand exchange rate and dividend amount in South UK withholding tax refunds are not claimable from intu African currency announced properties plc, the South African Revenue Service SARS or other national authorities, only from the UKs HMRC.
Wednesday 19 April 2017 Ordinary shares listed ex-dividend on the Johannesburg Additional information on PIDs can be found at Stock Exchange intugroup.
Thursday 20 April 2017 The above does not constitute advice and shareholders should Ordinary shares listed ex-dividend on the London Stock seek their own professional guidance.
intu properties plc does Exchange not accept liability for any loss suffered arising from reliance on the above.
Friday 21 April 2017 Record date for 2016 final dividend in London and Johannesburg Thursday 25 May 2017 Dividend payment date for shareholders South African shareholders should note that, in accordance with the requirements of Strate, the last day to trade cum-dividend will be Tuesday 18 April 2017 and that no dematerialisation or rematerialisation of shares will be possible from Wednesday 19 April 2017 to Friday 21 April 2017 inclusive.
No transfers between the UK and South African registers may take place from Friday 7 April 2017 to Friday 21 April 2017 inclusive.
