180 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Shareholder information Registered Office Share dealing 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT Existing UK shareholders may trade intu properties plc shares Registered in England & Wales no.
3685527 through Capita Share Dealing Services who provide a real-time online, telephone and postal dealing service.
Websites Contact details are: intugroup.
com Telephone within UK 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p per Registrars minute plus network extras: lines are open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including Monday to Friday notification of change of address, queries regarding loss of a Ireland Lo-call 1 890 946 375 share certificate and dividend payments should be addressed to: outside UK 44 20 3367 2686 For shareholders registered in the UK Sharegift Capita Asset Services Shareholders with a small number of shares, which may be The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
uneconomic to sell on a commission basis, may wish to consider Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary donating them to the charity Sharegift registered charity no.
by provider: lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday 1052686.
Further information can be found on Sharegifts Telephone 44 0 371 664 0300 website sharegift.
com Strate Charity Shares For shareholders registered in South Africa South African shareholders for whom the cost of selling their Terbium Financial Services shares would exceed the market value of such shares may wish 31 Beacon Road, Florida North, 1709 to consider donating them to charity.
An independent non-profit South Africa organisation called Strate Charity Shares has been established Postal address: to administer this process.
The South African Revenue Service PO Box 61272 SARS has advised Strate Charity Shares that the value of any Marshalltown 2107, South Africa shares donated may be deducted from taxable income, as the Telephone 27 0 860 222 213 scheme is registered under section 18A of the Income Tax Act.
global For further details, queries and or donations contact the Strate Share Care toll free help line on 0800 202 363 or Payment of dividends 27 11 373 0038 if you are phoning from outside South Africa Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly into or email charityshares@terbium.
global a bank or building society account should complete a mandate Electronic communication form available from the appropriate registrars.
The Company supplies information such as the annual report Share price information via its website to shareholders who have consented to such The latest information on the intu properties plc share price is communication.
Shareholders will be notified by email or available on the website intugroup.
post when new information is available on the website.
Shareholders can at any time revoke a previous instruction Web-based enquiry service for shareholders in order to receive hard copies of shareholder information.
Shareholders registered in the UK can go to capitashareportal.
com to obtain details of their shareholdings UK shareholders may register to receive email alerts by logging and dividends.
The shareholders surname, Investor Code on to the website of the UK Registrars capitashareportal.
com found on any correspondence from registrars and postcode and following the instructions given to register an email are required to use this service.
Shareholders may also use address.
SA shareholders may register to receive email alerts this service to amend or change their address and dividend by written instruction to the South African Registrar, Terbium, mandate details.
Once registered, shareholders are sent a Notice of Availability email highlighting that the Shareholders registered in South Africa can go to terbium.
global annual report or other information is available for viewing on to obtain details of their shareholdings.
Shareholders will need the website.
to follow a registration process in order to access such information.
Unfortunately, due to South African legal requirements, shareholders may not update records, but will be able to view their entire holding of shares globally.
Please note that the Terbium company code for intu properties plc is ITUZ.
This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the belief or current expectations of intu properties plc, its Directors and other members of its senior management about intu properties plcs businesses, financial performance and results of operations.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Rather, they are based on current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of intu properties plc and are difficult to predict, that may cause actual results, performance or developments to differ materially from any future results, performance or developments expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this report.
Except as required by applicable law, intu properties plc makes no representation or warranty in relation to them and expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein to reect any change in intu properties plcs expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Any information contained in this report on the price at which shares or other securities in intu properties plc have been bought or sold in the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Copyright intu properties plc March 2017 Designed and produced by Printed by Pureprint Group on FSC certied paper.
Pureprint Group is an EMAS certied CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certied to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil-based.
This document is printed on Claro Bulk, a paper containing 100% virgin bre sourced from well managed, sustainable, FSC certied forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
intu properties plc 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT intugroup.
