JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 160 Notes to the European Embedded Value results Supplementary financial statements 1 Basis of presentation The Groups primary financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Group has prepared these supplementary financial statements in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles and associated guidance issued in April 2016 by the European Insurance CFO Forum CFO Forum.
These principles permit, but do not require, the use of projection methods and assumptions applied for market consistent solvency regimes.
JRP has not aligned its EEV methodology and assumptions with Solvency II.
The valuation of covered long term business business liabilities underlying the EEV is consistent with the methods and assumptions used for the primary financial statements which are prepared under IFRS.
The Group uses EEV methodology to value all lines of insurance business within Just Retirement Limited JRL and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited PLACL, representing the covered business of the Group.
No other Group companies contain material amounts of covered business.
For other Group companies, the net worth is the IFRS net asset value less the value of goodwill and intangibles.
The Group EEV includes the value of subordinated debt at fair value.
The acquisition of Partnership Assurance Group plc PAG by Just Retirement Group plc JRG took place on 1 April 2016, at which point Just Retirement Group plc was renamed JRP Group plc JRP.
These supplementary statements of JRP report on JRPs EEV for the 18 month period to 31 December 2016 following the change in JRPs reporting date to 31 December.
The transaction has been accounted for as a business combination in which JRG acquired PAG on 1 April 2016.
As such, the result for JRP has included PAGs embedded value as an acquisition at 1 April 2016 and includes the impact of changes in PAGs EEV for the nine months from 1 April 2016 to 31 December 2016.
The Directors of the Group are responsible for the preparation of these supplementary financial statements.
2 Methodology The following methodology applies to the covered business of the Group.
Following the change in solvency regime to Solvency II from 1 January 2016, the Group has prepared its EEV with the covered business liabilities being valued consistently with IFRS.
As part of the acquisition of PAG, the methodologies for calculating the EEV and material economic assumptions were harmonised across the two groups.
The notes that follow generally apply to the calculation of the embedded values for both JRL and PLACL.
Any differences are commented on as appropriate.
A. Embedded value overview In reporting under the EEV Principles, the Group has chosen to adopt a bottom-up approach to the allowance for risk.
The approach makes an explicit allowance for part of the spread that part being referred to as liquidity premium expected to be earned on corporate bonds and lifetime mortgages in determining the embedded value.
The embedded value is the sum of the net worth of the Group companies, plus the value of in-force covered business.
The embedded value is calculated net of the impacts of reinsurance and allows for taxation based on current legislation and enacted future changes.
The net worth is the market value of the shareholders net assets.
The shareholders net assets in respect of the life companies are taken from the IFRS consolidated statement of the financial position with adjustment to value subordinated debt at fair value.
The net worth represents the market value of the assets of the life company in excess of the insurance and non-insurance liabilities of the life company as assessed on an IFRS basis.
The net worth in the covered business can be split into the free surplus and required capital.
The free surplus is the market value of asset attributed to, but not required to support, the in-force covered business.
The required capital is assessed as the market value of assets attributed to the covered business in excess of assets required to back liabilities and for which distribution to shareholders is restricted.
The level of required capital is set with regards to the regulatory capital requirements i. e Solvency II such that the free surplus is equal to Solvency II Excess Own Funds.
This methodology reflects the level of capital considered by the Directors to be required to support the business.
The value of in-force business is the present value of projected after-tax profits emerging in future from the current in-force business less the cost arising from holding the required capital to support the in-force business and an allowance for nonhedgeable risks.
The future cash flows are projected using best estimate assumptions for each component of the cash flow.
The value of new business is the present value of projected after-tax profits emerging in future from new business sold in the period less the cost arising from holding additional capital to support this business and an allowance for non-hedgeable risks.
The figures shown also include the expected return between the point of sale and the reporting date.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 161 2 Methodology continued B.
Covered business The business to which the EEV Principles have been applied is defined as the covered business.
The covered business includes all business written by JRL and PLACL.
In particular, it includes the long-term insurance business for UK regulatory purposes and principally comprising: Pension Guaranteed Income for Life Solutions GIfL : Defined Benefit fide-risking contracts DB : Drawdown pension business contracts: Care Plans: and Protection.
Some purchased life annuity business has been written, but this has not been written in significant volumes.
Although it has been allowed for in the calculations, it has not been explicitly modelled.
The impact of this approximate treatment is not material.
C. New business All annuity business is written on a single premium basis.
Premium increments received following policy issue are excluded from the value of new business.
Single and regular premium protection business is included in new business.
No allowance is made in the embedded value for the value of new business written after the reporting date.
Point-of sale economic assumptions and opening period non-economic assumptions are used to value the new business.
Any variances or changes in assumptions after the point-of-sale are recorded within the analysis of EEV earnings as operating experience variances or operating assumption changes.
Any changes to non-economic assumptions and methodology in respect of new business are introduced at the reporting date.
The impact of these changes on the value of new business at the end of the year is therefore included within the analysis of the embedded value profit in the operating assumption changes.
D. Components of value The values of in-force business and new business each comprise four components: i Certainty equivalent value: less ii Time value of financial options and guarantees: less iii Allowance for non-hedgeable risk: less iv Cost of capital.
i Certainty equivalent value The certainty equivalent value is the value of the future cash flows, excluding the time value of financial options and guarantees.
It is calculated assuming assets earn the reference rate and the cash flows are discounted at the reference rate.
The reference rate is defined in section E Valuation of cash flows below.
The future cash flows are those arising from the assets backing the liabilities as assessed on an IFRS basis and from the liabilities themselves.
The calculation of the IFRS liabilities at future dates in the projection assumes the continuation of the bases used to calculate the liabilities at the valuation date.
ii Time value of financial options and guarantees TVOG The certainty equivalent value calculation above is based on a single base deterministic economic scenario: however, a single scenario cannot appropriately allow for the effect of certain features of options and guarantees.
If an option or guarantee affects shareholder cash flows in the base scenario, the impact is included in the certainty equivalent value and is referred to as the intrinsic value of the option or guarantee: however, as future investment returns are uncertain, the actual impact on shareholder profits may be higher or lower and hence allowance will have to be made for the TVOG.
The covered business does not contain any significant policyholder options or guarantees and therefore there is no explicit TVOG.
The assets backing the covered business include mortgages secured against individual domestic properties lifetime mortgages.
These mortgages contain a no negative equity guarantee.
Under this guarantee, the amount recoverable by the Group on termination of the mortgage is generally capped at the net sale proceeds of the property.
This guarantee does not apply where the mortgage redemption is not accompanied by a sale of the underlying property.
This could occur when, for example, the property is remortgaged with another provider.
The time value of this option and guarantee is allowed for in the asset valuation using closed form calculations, based on a variant of the Black-Scholes option pricing formula.
The formula incorporates a number of assumptions, including those for risk-free interest rates, future property growth and future property price volatility.
The value of this guarantee is allowed for through a reduction in the liquidity premium included in the VIF for covered business, and hence is not explicitly valued.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 162 Notes to the European Embedded Value results continued Supplementary financial statements 2 Methodology continued iii Allowance for non-hedgeable risks The key non-hedgeable risks faced by the Group are mortality including longevity, early redemptions of lifetime mortgages, and operational risks.
No allowance has been made within the cost of non-hedgeable risks for symmetrical risks as the assumptions made regarding future experience are set so as to give the mean of the expected outcome including allowing for the tails of the distribution.
Mortality risk and the risk of early redemptions of lifetime mortgages are symmetrical and hence no further adjustment has been made in respect of these risks.
However, the certainty equivalent value and the time value of financial options and guarantees make no allowance for the cost of possible operational and other asymmetric risk and the Group has made an explicit allowance for these risks.
In the valuation approach used, the market risks faced by the Group are allowed for directly in the valuation of the cash flows.
iv Frictional cost of capital The additional costs to a shareholder of holding the assets backing the required capital within an insurance company rather than directly in the market are called frictional costs.
These are deducted from the certainty equivalent value.
The additional costs allowed for are the taxation costs on the investment return and any additional investment expenses on the assets backing the required capital.
Frictional costs are calculated by projecting the level of required capital.
The projection of the required capital is based on an approximate method that assumes the required capital is a constant proportion of the projected IFRS liabilities.
Tax on investment returns and investment expenses are payable on the assets backing required capital, up to the point that the required capital is released to shareholders.
E. Valuation of cash flows Reference rates are calculated by adding the liquidity premiums derived from assets backing liabilities mainly corporate bond and lifetime mortgages to the swap curve.
The liquidity premium on corporate bond assets is calculated by deducting an allowance for credit default, individually assessed for each bond based on credit rating, from the spread on each bond and comparing the resulting risk-adjusted internal rate of return on the portfolio to the swap curve.
The lifetime mortgage assets are valued using a mark to model approach that allows for expected future expenses for the mortgages and the cost of the no-negative equity guarantee, where relevant, with the liquidity premium calculated on a consistent basis with corporate bonds.
For protection business, there is no allowance for a liquidity premium in the reference rate used to value the business.
i In-force business For the in-force business, the liquidity premium has been derived using the method described above.
ii New business For new business written during the period the liquidity premium varies by the month of policy inception.
The liquidity premium adjustment applied to each months new Retirement Income business is consistent with the method used to value the in-force business described above.
For corporate bonds assumed to back the new business, the liquidity premium is calculated by deducting an allowance for credit default risk from the estimated spread for new bond purchases in the period.
For lifetime mortgages the liquidity premium is calculated by equating the present value of all the matching cash flows for new lifetime mortgages discounted at the swap rate plus the liquidity premium to the point-of-sale IFRS asset value of the new matching mortgages.
F. Reinsurance The Group has a number of reinsurance arrangements in place in respect of the GIfL business, whereby part of the mortality risk is transferred to the reinsurers.
The Group received an initial financing payment which is repayable out of future surplus emerging.
Some associated initial and renewal fees are also payable to the reinsurers.
The face value of the amount owed to the reinsurers at the relevant reporting date together with all management fees expected to be paid in the future has been explicitly allowed for in the value of the in-force business at the reporting date.
The risk transfer is not reflected in the EEV because, on the assumptions used, the Group expects to recapture the business once remaining financing has been repaid.
The Group also has in place quota share, quota share with deposit back and mortality swap reinsurance arrangements for the GIfL DB and Care business where part of the mortality risk on each contract is transferred to the reinsurers.
The risk transfer for these contracts is reflected in the EEV.
G. Taxation The projected cash flows take into account all tax which the Group expects to pay.
The calculations are undertaken assuming rates based on current and expected future tax rates.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 163 3 Assumptions A.
Economic assumptions Reference rates The term structure of the reference rates has been derived from mid-market swap rates.
The resulting rates reflect the shape of the swap rate curve.
For new business the rates have been derived from the swap rates applicable on the date each payment was received for Retirement Income policies or the date each mortgage advance was completed as appropriate.
Sample mid-market swap rates at 30 June 2016, 31 December 2015 and 30 June 2015 are shown in the following table.
Term years Swap rates at sample terms, % 1 5 10 20 30 31 December 2016 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 1.4 31 December 2015 0.8 1.6 2.0 2.2 2.2 30 June 2015 0.8 1.7 2.2 2.4 2.4 The liquidity premiums used to value the annuity in-force business are as follows: Liquidity premium, bps JRG PAG 31 December 2016 189 228 31 December 2015 192 n a 30 June 2015 178 n a The liquidity premium for each months new business has varied over the period but the effect is equivalent to an average adjustment as follows: Liquidity premium, bps JRG PAG 31 December 2016 262 282 31 December 2015 228 n a 30 June 2015 61 n a 1 The liquidity premium methodology in JRL changed from 30 June 2015 and the value quoted above is therefore calculated under the previous methodology.
Residential property assumptions When calculating the value of the no-negative equity guarantee on the lifetime mortgages, certain economic assumptions are required within the variant of the Black-Scholes formula.
These assumptions were harmonised across the Group following the acquisition of PAG.
The market, against which these assumptions have been assessed, and the cost of the no-negative equity guarantee has been calibrated, is neither deep nor liquid.
The Group has therefore set these assumptions taking into account historic, published, UK residential property price movements.
The risk-free rate used in the variant of the Black-Scholes formula is the mid-market swap rate.
In the absence of a reliable long-term forward curve for UK residential property price inflation, the Group has made an assumption about future residential property price inflation.
This has been derived by reference to the long-term expectation of the UK retail price inflation, RPI, consistent with the Bank of England inflation target plus an allowance for the expectation of house price growth above RPI property risk premium less a margin for a combination of risks including property dilapidation and basis risk.
This results in a single rate of future house price growth of 4.25%.
In June 2016, the Group took a view that due to external factors there may be potential disruption in the property market in the short term but these factors would not affect the long term view and hence adopted an assumption that house prices will fall by 10% from levels as at 30 June 2016 by 30 June 2017 and would grow thereafter at a rate of 5.0% p. a.
The Group has retained this assumption for the current valuation.
The impact of this assumptions is broadly equivalent to using a flat 4.25% p. a. assumption.
The methodology at 30 June 2015 had assumed that future house price growth was derived by adding a house price inflation spread derived from historic UK retail price inflation rates to a term structure of future inflation rates.
In deriving an assessment of long-term UK residential property price volatility, the Group has used house price data published by the Nationwide Building Society.
The Group has adjusted the derived value to allow for the additional volatility expected to be observed in the Groups portfolios compared with the market as a whole, the idiosyncratic risk.
The volatility assumption used at 31 December 2016 was 12% p. a.
30 Jun 2015: 9.7% p. a.. JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 164 Notes to the European Embedded Value results continued Supplementary financial statements 3 Assumptions continued Expense inflation The Group has harmonised this assumption across the life companies and products.
The best estimate expense inflation assumption for 31 December 2016 is 4.3%.
As at 30 Jun 2015 the assumptions varied by products and ranged from 3.6% p. a. to 4.5% p. a.
Taxation The current and future tax rates used are the corporation tax rates as published by HM Treasury and take into account proposed changes to future tax rates.
For the purposes of modelling tax on future profits, a calendar year assumption is set using a pro rata method based on the number of months at each effective rate.
The blended corporation tax rates used were as follows: Calendar year Effective tax rate 31 December 2016 2016 20.00% 2017 19.25% 2018 19.00% 2019 19.00% 2020 17.50% 2021 17.00% The rate of corporation tax assumed by JRG at 30 June 2015 was 20% for all future periods being the effective tax rate at the valuation date.
The above approach was adopted by the Group when harmonising assumptions as at 31 December 2015.
Operating assumptions Operating assumptions have been reviewed as part of the reporting process.
Mortality The mortality assumptions have been set by the Group taking into account the Groups own mortality experience together with relevant studies undertaken by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries CMI, population studies undertaken by offices of the UK government, published research materials, input from the Groups reinsurers and managements own industry experience.
Mortgage repayments Assumptions are made about the number of future mortgage repayments resulting from individuals moving into long-term care or through voluntary repayments.
When deriving appropriate assumptions the Group has taken into account its own experience together with other relevant available information.
The JRL assumptions for mortality have been updated from those used at 30 June 2015 to reflect the emerging experience on this business.
The decrement for moving into long-term care is expressed as a proportion of the underlying mortality assumption for the relevant lives.
This assumption is unchanged from that used at 30 June 2015 for JRL.
The decrements for voluntary repayments are expressed as annual percentages of the portfolio in force and exhibit a term structure based on duration in-force.
The JRL assumptions for rates of voluntary redemption have been updated from those used at 30 June 2015 to reflect the emerging experience on this business.
Expenses The expense levels are based on internal expense analysis investigations and are appropriately allocated to the new business and policy maintenance functions.
Acquisition expenses have been fully allocated to the values of new business for each product.
The Group has set long-term maintenance expense allowances for each product at a level which it considers to be realistic.
Investment expenses have been set by reference to the expenses payable under the investment management arrangements.
Some of the expenses incurred in the financial period to 30 June 2016 have been considered exceptional and one-off in nature.
These non-recurring expenses have been identified separately and have not been included in the calculation of the value of in-force business or in the value of new business and have been charged to the non-operating earnings in the year incurred.
Total nonrecurring expenses for the 18 months ended 30 June 2016 were 18.4m for the Groups covered business 12 month period ended 30 Jun 2015: 16.8m.
The look-through principle has not been applied to the losses in the distribution company arising from the sale of products arising from the covered business, and so these losses have not been included as a deduction against the value of new business.
The distribution company is considered to be a stand-alone business and its activities do not relate solely to the sale of covered business.
The recognised loss in the distribution company has been accounted for on an IFRS basis, separately to the results of the covered business.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 165 3 Assumptions continued The remaining expenses are included within operating results of the distribution and other Group companies and have been accounted for on an IFRS basis.
Non-hedgeable risk At 31 December 2016 the provision for non-hedgeable risk has been established as 0.35% of the best estimate reserves in respect of Retirement Income business for the combined Group 30 June 2015: 0.18% for JRG.
The increase in this assumption is due to changes to the assessment of operational and expense risks.
The implementation of the methodology has not yet been fully aligned between JRG and PAG.
This assumption applies to new business from 1 January 2016.
New business in the six months to 31 December 2015 uses the 30 June 2015 assumption of 0.18% of best estimate reserves at point of sale.
Required capital At 31 December 2016, the amount of required capital has been assessed with reference to the Solvency II regulatory requirements.
This assumption is changed from that used as at 30 June 2015, which was based on 175% of JRLs capital resource requirement as set out in the Solvency I Pillar 1 regulations in force at that time.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 166 Notes to the European Embedded Value results continued Supplementary financial statements 4 Sensitivities The Group embedded value at 31 December 2016 and the value of new business for the year to 31 December 2016 have been recalculated to show the sensitivity of the results to changes in certain of the assumptions discussed above.
No future management actions are modelled following the change to the assumptions.
The results are shown net of tax.
For each of the sensitivities, all of the other assumptions remain unchanged, unless otherwise stated.
Except where explicitly noted, the IFRS reserving basis is changed to reflect the revised assumptions in each sensitivity.
The sensitivities of the embedded value and the value of new business to changes in economic and non-economic assumptions are as follows: Sensitivity of values to changes in assumptions Embedded value at Value of new business Value of new business 31 December for 12 months ended for 12 months ended 2016 31 December 2016 30 June 2015 m m m Central value 1,785.3 141.5 95.7 Impact of: 1% reduction in yield curves 349.6 n a n a 1% increase in yield curves 285.5 n a n a 20% reduction in property values 88.3 6.4 5.3 125% of implied property volatilities 162.3 15.3 10.5 5% reduction in retirement income customer base mortality 137.2 8.8 10.4 10% increase in lifetime mortgage voluntary redemptions 49.3 8.8 n a 10% increase in maintenance expenses 28.7 1.3 n a 0.25% increase in mortality improvements for retirement income business 74.6 9.2 n a Notes to the sensitivities: Interest rate environment -100 bps: this sensitivity is modelled as a 100bp change to the yield on each asset.
The sensitivity allows for the resulting change in asset value and the change in liability value that follows from the change in risk adjusted internal rate of return on the portfolio.
In the -100bp sensitivity the reference rate has a floor of 0%.
20% fall in property values: this sensitivity allows for the change in lifetime mortgage and commercial mortgage asset value arising from an immediate fall of 20% in property prices.
For lifetime mortgages, from 30 June 2017 onwards, the sensitivity assumes an additional 10% reduction in property prices over and above the 10% fall assumed in the base position.
The sensitivity also allows for the corresponding change in liabilities as a result of the yield change.
25% increase in property volatility: this sensitivity allows for the change in lifetime mortgage asset values as a result of the change in the cost of the no negative equity guarantee, and for the change in commercial mortgage asset value.
5% decrease in base mortality: this sensitivity is modelled for the annuity business only.
This is modelled as a change in the best estimate mortality level and the prudent margins remain unchanged.
10% proportionate change in lapses: this sensitivity is modelled as a change assumptions for both covered business lapse rates and lifetime mortgage voluntary repayment rates.
The sensitivity is applied as a proportionate reduction in the rate of withdrawal e. g. a withdrawal rate of 5.5% becomes 4.95% under the sensitivity.
The IFRS reserves are also changed in this scenario as a result of changing yields on the lifetime mortgages.
10% increase in maintenance expenses: this sensitivity is modelled as a 10% change in the expense reserve.
There is no change to expense inflation and no change to valuation interest rates.
Mortality improvements 0.25%: this sensitivity is modelled as an additional 0.25% improvement in each future year within the best estimate basis for annuity business only.
The IFRS reserving basis remains unchanged.
Interest rate sensitivities are not modelled for new business as the Group actively reviews its pricing, and in the event of a sudden movement in asset values the pricing of new business would be changed.
For the twelve months to 30 June 2015, sensitivities on new business for voluntary redemptions and maintenance expenses were calculated as reductions to the base assumption, and have not been restated as increases to the base assumption.
The mortality improvement sensitivity was not performed on the new business in the twelve months to June 2015.
