Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 171 Glossary and definitions Auto-enrolment new legal duties being phased in that require Guaranteed income for life GIfL retirement income employers to automatically enrol workers into a workplace products which transfer the investment and longevity risk to the pension.
company and provide the retiree a guarantee to pay an agreed level of income for as long as a retiree lives.
On a joint-life Buy-in an exercise enabling a pension scheme to obtain an basis, continues to pay a guaranteed income to a surviving insurance contract that pays a guaranteed stream of income spouse partner.
Just provides modern individually underwritten sufficient to cover the liabilities of a group of the schemes GIfL solutions.
Guaranteed Guidance see Pensions Wise below.
Buy-out an exercise that wholly transfers the liability for paying member benefits from the pension scheme to an insurer Lifetime mortgages an equity release product that allows which then becomes responsible for paying the members homeowners to take out a loan secured on the value of their directly.
home, typically with the loan plus interest repaid when the home is no longer needed.
Capped Drawdown A Non-marketed product from JRP Group previously described as Fixed Term Annuity.
Capped Drawdown Medical underwriting the process of evaluating an individuals products ceased to be available to new customers when the tax current health, medical history and lifestyle factors such as legislation changed for pensions in April 2015. smoking when pricing an insurance contract.
Care Plan a specialist insurance contract contributing to the Pension Freedoms Pension Freedom and Choice Pension costs of long-term care by paying a guaranteed income to a Reforms the UK Governments pension reforms, implemented registered care provider for the remainder of a persons life.
Combined Group JRP Group following completion of the Pensions Wise the free and impartial service introduced in merger with Partnership Assurance Group plc, JRP Group plc and April 2015 to provide Guaranteed Guidance to defined each of its consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary contribution pension savers considering taking money from undertakings comprising the Just Retirement Group and the their pensions.
PrognoSys a next generation underwriting system, which is Defined benefit pension scheme a pension scheme, usually based on individual mortality curves derived from JRP Groups backed or sponsored by an employer, that pays members a own data collected since its launch in 2004. guaranteed level of retirement income based on length of membership and earnings.
Retirement Income sales in reference to JRP Group sales or products collective term for GIfL, DB and Care Plan.
Defined contribution DC pension scheme a work-based or personal pension scheme in which contributions are invested to Retirement sales in reference to JRP Group sales or products build up a fund that can be used by the individual member to collective term for Retirement Income sales and Drawdown.
Regulated financial advice personalised financial advice for fide-risk fide-risking an action carried out by the trustees of a retail customers by qualified advisers who are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
pension scheme with the aim of transferring investment, inflation and longevity risk from the sponsoring employer and Simplified advice regulated financial advice offering a limited scheme to a third party such as an insurer.
service on a limited or specialist area of financial need, such as retirement, to retail customers taking into account information Drawdown in reference to JRP Group sales or products relevant to that need.
collective term for Flexible Pension Plan and capped drawdown.
Solvency II an EU Directive that codifies and harmonises the Employee benefit consultant EBC an adviser offering EU insurance regulation.
Primarily this concerns the amount of specialist knowledge to employers on the legal, regulatory and capital that EU insurance companies must hold to reduce the practical issues of rewarding staff including non-wage risk of insolvency.
compensation such as pensions, health and life insurance and profit sharing.
Trustees individuals with the legal powers to hold, control and administer the property of a trust such as a pension scheme for Equity release products and services enabling homeowners to the purposes specified in the trust deed.
Pension scheme generate income or lump sums by accessing some of the value trustees are obliged to act in the best interests of the schemes of the home while continuing to live in it.
Flexi-access drawdown the option introduced in April 2015 for DC pension savers who have taken tax-free cash to take a taxable income directly from their remaining pension with no limit on withdrawals.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 172 Notes JRP Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 JRP Group plc Vale House Roebuck Close Bancroft Road Reigate Surrey RH2 7RU jrpgroup.
