Financial statements Glossary ABB Net Revenue Association of British Bookmakers.
Gross win less fair value adjustments, e. g. fair value of rewardpoints, free bets and promotional bonuses, VAT and Actives associate income.
The number of individuals who have placed a bet during theyear.
Operating profit Bet in Play Profit before net finance expense, tax and exceptional items.
Betting-in-Play allows bettors the opportunity to bet on outcomes OTC during a live event.
Category B2 gaming machine POC Gaming machine with maximum stake of 100 and maximum prize of 500.
Category B3 gaming machine Real Money Sign-up Gaming machine with maximum stake of 2 and maximum A new player who has registered and deposited funds into an prizeof 500. account with the Company.
To address the issues posed by shared wallets, customers are categorised between lines of business EBITDA according to where they first register on the gaming site.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Responsible Gambling Trust Gambling Act A charity that funds treatment, education and research related The Gambling Act 2005 is the primary piece of legislation toproblem gambling.
governinggambling regulations in Great Britain.
SIS Satellite Information Services GamCare Ladbrokes owns 23.4% of SIS, a leading supplier of television programming and sports data to licensed betting offices in the UK, A charitable organisation which provides counselling to those Ireland, Isle of Man and Channel Islands.
SSBTs Gambling Commission Set up under the Gambling Act 2005, the Gambling Commission Self Service Betting Terminals.
regulates casinos, bingo, gaming machines and lotteries.
It is also The Coral Group responsible for the regulation of betting and remote gambling, aswell as helping to protect children and vulnerable people.
The proposed merger between Gala Coral Group Limited and Ladbrokes plc is with certain businesses of Gala Coral, including Gaming Machines Coral Retail, Eurobet Retail and Gala Corals online business.
Betting shops can operate machines with B2 content including oldFOBT content and B3 content, as defined by the 2005 Gambling Act.
Gross Win Total customer stakes less customer winnings plus commission, i. e. the amount of money left behind by the customer.
MGD Machine Games Duty MGD is charged at 25% of the gross profit generated from machinegames.
com Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com Printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company and is certified to Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 5th Floor The Zig Zag Building 70 Victoria Street London SW1E 6SQ Telephone: 44 0 20 8429 7777 www.
