STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Additional information Land Securities Annual Report 2016 171 GLOSSARY Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted EPS Lease incentives Rental income Earnings per share based on revenue profit after related tax.
Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the Rental income is as reported in the income statement, on an accruals basis, incentive will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution to fit-out or and adjusted for the spreading of lease incentives over the term certain of Adjusted net asset value Adjusted NAV per share similar costs.
For accounting purposes the value of the incentive is spread the lease in accordance with SIC 15.
It is stated gross, prior to the deduction NAV per share adjusted to remove the effect of the fide-recognition of the over the non-cancellable life of the lease.
of ground rents and without deduction for operational outgoings on car park 2004 bond exchange and cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate and commercialisation activities.
LIBOR The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged by one bank to Return on average capital employed Adjusted net debt another for lending money, often used as a reference rate in bank facilities.
Group profit before interest, plus joint venture profit before interest, divided Net debt excluding cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate swaps, by the average capital employed defined as shareholders funds plus the adjustment arising from the fide-recognition of the bond exchange and Like-for-like portfolio adjusted net debt.
amounts payable under finance leases.
It generally includes the net debt of The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties which have been in the subsidiaries and joint ventures on a proportionate basis.
portfolio since 1 April 2014, but excluding those which are acquired, sold or Return on average equity included in the development pipeline at any time since that date.
Group profit before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the average equity Book value shareholders funds.
The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the financial Like-for-like managed properties statements.
Properties in the like-for-like portfolio other than those in our joint ventures Revenue profit which we do not manage operationally.
Profit before tax, excluding profits on the sale of non-current assets and BREEAM trading properties, profits on long-term development contracts, valuation Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method.
Loan-to-value LTV movements, fair value movements on interest-rate swaps and similar Group LTV is the ratio of adjusted net debt, including subsidiaries and joint Combined Portfolio instruments used for hedging purposes, the adjustment to interest payable ventures, to the sum of the market value of investment properties and the The Combined Portfolio comprises the investment properties of the Groups resulting from the amortisation of the bond exchange fide-recognition book value of trading properties of the Group, its subsidiaries and joint subsidiaries, on a proportionately consolidated basis when not wholly adjustment, debt restructuring charges, and any other items of an ventures, all on a proportionate basis, expressed as a percentage.
For the owned, together with our share of investment properties held in our joint exceptional nature.
Security Group, LTV is the ratio of net debt lent to the Security Group divided ventures.
Unless stated otherwise, references are to the Combined Portfolio by the value of secured assets.
Reversionary or under-rented when the investment property business is discussed.
Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
Market value Completed developments Market value is determined by the Groups external valuers, in accordance Reversionary yield Completed developments consist of those properties previously included with the RICS Valuation Standards, as an opinion of the estimated amount The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once the rent in the development programme, which have been transferred from the for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a reaches the ERV.
development programme since 1 April 2014. willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after proper Scrip dividend Development pipeline marketing.
A scrip dividend is when shareholders are offered the opportunity to receive The development programme together with proposed developments.
Mark-to-market adjustment dividends in the form of shares instead of cash.
Development programme An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability to Security Group The development programme consists of committed developments Board its market value see also fair value movement.
Security Group is the principal funding vehicle for Land Securities and approved projects with the building contract let, authorised developments Net asset value NAV per share properties held in the Security Group are mortgaged for the benefit of Board approved, projects under construction and developments which Equity attributable to owners of the parent divided by the number of ordinary lenders.
It has the flexibility to raise a variety of different forms of finance.
have reached practical completion within the last two years but are not yet shares in issue at the period end.
Temporary lettings Net initial yield Lettings for a period of one year or less.
These are included within voids.
Diluted figures Net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers of the yield Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potentially dilutive shares Topped-up net initial yield that would be received by a purchaser, based on the Estimated Net Rental issuable under employee share schemes.
Topped-up net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers.
Income expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being the market It is calculated by making an adjustment to net initial yield in respect of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP value plus assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
The annualised cash rent foregone through unexpired rent-free periods and The DRIP provides shareholders with the opportunity to use cash dividends calculation is in line with EPRA guidance.
Estimated Net Rental Income is other lease incentives.
The calculation is consistent with EPRA guidance.
received to purchase additional ordinary shares in the Company immediately determined by the valuer and is based on the passing cash rent less ground after the relevant dividend payment date.
Full details appear on the Total business return rent at the balance sheet date, estimated non-recoverable outgoings and Companys website.
Dividend paid per share, plus the change in adjusted diluted net asset value void costs including service charges, insurance costs and void rates.
per share, divided by the adjusted diluted net asset value per share at the Earnings per share EPS Net rental income beginning of the year.
Profit after taxation attributable to owners of the parent divided by the Net rental income is the net operational income arising from properties, on an weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Total cost ratio accruals basis, including rental income, finance lease interest, rents payable, Total cost ratio represents all costs included within revenue profit, other than service charge income and expense, other property related income, direct EPRA rents payable and financing costs, expressed as a percentage of gross rental European Public Real Estate Association.
property expenditure and bad debts.
Net rental income is presented on a income before rents payable.
EPRA net initial yield Total development cost TDC Outline planning consent EPRA net initial yield is defined within EPRAs Best Practice Total development cost refers to the book value of the site at the Recommendations as the annualised rental income based on the cash rents This gives consent in principle for a development, and covers matters such commencement of the project, the estimated capital expenditure required to as use and building mass.
Full details of the development scheme must be passing at the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating develop the scheme from the start of the financial year in which the property expenses, divided by the gross market value of the property.
It is consistent provided in an application for reserved matters approval, including detailed is added to our development programme, together with capitalised interest, layout, scale, appearance, access and landscaping, before a project can with the net initial yield calculated by the Groups external valuers.
being the Groups borrowing costs associated with direct expenditure on proceed.
An outline planning permission will lapse if the submission of Equivalent yield the property under development.
Interest is also capitalised on the purchase reserved matters has not been made within three years, or if it has not been Calculated by the Groups external valuers, equivalent yield is the internal cost of land or property where it is acquired specifically for redevelopment.
implemented within three years or within two years of the final approval rate of return from an investment property, based on the gross outlays for The TDC for trading property development schemes excludes any estimated of reserved matters, unless otherwise expressly stated within conditions the purchase of a property including purchase costs, reflecting reversions tax on disposal.
attached to the permission itself or, for any permissions granted on or before to current market rent and such items as voids and non-recoverable 1 October 2009, a successful application has been made to extend the time Total property return expenditure but ignoring future changes in capital value.
The calculation within which reserved matters application can be submitted, or the overall Valuation movement, profit loss on property sales and net rental income assumes rent is received annually in arrears.
limit for commencement of development.
in respect of investment properties expressed as a percentage of opening ERV Gross estimated rental value book value, together with the time weighted value for capital expenditure Over-rented The estimated market rental value of lettable space as determined incurred during the current year, on the combined property portfolio.
Space where the passing rent is above the ERV.
biannually by the Groups external valuers.
For investment properties in the Total Shareholder Return TSR Passing cash rent development programme, which have not yet reached practical completion, The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that The estimated annual rent receivable as at the reporting date which includes the ERV represents managements view of market rents.
dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
estimates of turnover rent and estimates of rent to be agreed in respect of Fair value movement outstanding rent review or lease renewal negotiations.
Passing cash rent Trading properties An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability to may be more or less than the ERV see over-rented, reversionary and ERV.
Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current assets in the its market value see also mark-to-market adjustment.
Passing cash rent excludes annual rent receivable from units in administration balance sheet.
Finance lease save to the extent that rents are expected to be received.
Void units and units Turnover rent A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership from that are in a rent-free period at the reporting date are deemed to have no Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
Although temporary lets of less than 12 months are treated Voids as void, income from temporary lets is included in passing cash rents.
Gearing Voids are expressed as a percentage of ERV and represent all unlet space, Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term deposits, Pre-let including voids where refurbishment work is being carried out and voids in corporate bonds and cash, at book value, plus cumulative fair value A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
Temporary lettings for a period of movements on financial derivatives as a percentage of total equity.
Pre-development properties one year or less are also treated as voids.
For adjusted gearing, see note 22.
Pre-development properties are those properties within the like-for-like Weighted average cost of capital WACC Gross market value portfolio which are being managed to align vacant possession within a three Weighted average cost of debt and notional cost of equity, used as a Market value plus assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
year horizon with a view to redevelopment.
benchmark to assess investment returns.
Head lease Property Income Distribution PID Weighted average unexpired lease term A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of qualifying The weighted average of the unexpired term of all leases other than shortprofits.
A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of its qualifying profits as a Interest Cover Ratio ICR term lettings such as car parks and advertising hoardings, temporary lettings PID to its shareholders.
A calculation of a companys ability to meet its interest payments on of less than one year, residential leases and long ground leases.
It is calculated using revenue profit before interest, divided Proposed developments Yield shift by net interest excluding the mark-to-market movement on interest-rate Proposed developments are properties which have not yet received final A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of a property asset.
swaps, foreign exchange swaps, bond exchange fide-recognition, capitalised Board approval or are still subject to main planning conditions being satisfied, interest and interest on the pension scheme assets and liabilities.
The Zone A but which are more likely to proceed than not.
A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space by Qualifying activities Qualifying assets dividing it into zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most valuable zone, Interest-rate swap The ownership activity of property assets which is held to earn rental Zone A, is at the front of the unit.
Each successive zone is valued at half the A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest rate income and qualifies for tax-exempt treatment income and capital gains rate of the zone in front of it.
obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are generally used by under UK REIT legislation.
the Group to convert floating-rate debt or investments to fixed rates.
Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Investment portfolio A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at least three-quarters of its The investment portfolio comprises the investment properties of the Groups profits and assets derived from a qualifying property rental business.
Income subsidiaries, on a proportionately consolidated basis where not wholly and capital gains from the property rental business are exempt from tax but owned.
the REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of those profits to shareholders.
Corporation tax is payable on non-qualifying activities in the normal way.
Joint venture An entity in which the Group holds an interest and is jointly controlled by the Rental value change Group and one or more partners under a contractual arrangement.
Decisions Increase or decrease in the current rental value, as determined by the on financial and operating policies essential to the operation, performance Groups external valuers, over the reporting period on a like-for-like basis.
and financial position of the venture require each partners consent.
172 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT This Annual Report and the Land Securities website may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to Land Securities Group PLC Company and the Groups financial condition, results of its operations and business, and certain plans, strategy, objectives, goals and expectations with respect to these items and the economies and markets in which the Group operates.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, will, would, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
By their very nature forward-looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Groups ability to control or estimate precisely.
There are a number of such factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates: changes in the legal, regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the Group: changes in accounting practices and interpretation of accounting standards under IFRS, and changes in interest and exchange rates.
Any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report or the Land Securities website, or made subsequently, which are attributable to the Company or any other member of the Group, or persons acting on their behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date it is made.
Except as required by its legal or statutory obligations, the Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report or the Land Securities website should be construed as a profit forecast or an invitation to deal in the securities of the Company.
Land Securities Group PLC Copyright and trademark notices All rights reserved.
Copyright 2016 Land Securities Group PLC.
Land Securities, LandSecurities stylised, the Cornerstones logo and Making Property Work are trademarks of Land Securities Group PLC.
All other trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Produced by Brightsource Limited, a Cello Signal company.
Cover and text printed on Munken Design Polar Smooth which is FSC manufactured at a mill which has ISO 14001, EU Ecolabel and EMAS certification for environmental standards.
Independently certified on behalf of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
co. uk Words: Tim Rich Photography: David Hares Luke Hayes Igor Emmerich Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand, London WC2N 5AF T 44 0 20 7413 9000 E investor.
