Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 143 Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant, or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares, please send this document, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of a. to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot the members of LondonMetric Property Plc Registered shares and to make offers or agreements to allot number 7124797 will be held at The Connaught, Carlos shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe Place, Mayfair, London W1K 2AL on 14 July 2016 at 10.00 a. m. for or to convert any security into shares in the Company together relevant securities up to an Resolutions 1 to 18 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary aggregate nominal amount of 20,934,797: and resolutions and resolutions 19 to 21 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions.
b. to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 1.
That the Annual Report and Audited Financial of the 2006 Act up to an additional aggregate Statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 be nominal amount of 20,934,797 provided that this considered and approved.
authority may only be used in connection with a 2.
That the Annual Remuneration Report in the form set rights issue in favour of holders of ordinary shares and out in the Annual Report and Audited Financial other persons entitled to participate therein where Statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 the equity securities respectively attributable to the be approved.
interests of all those persons at such record dates as the Directors may determine are proportionate as 3.
That Deloitte LLP be reappointed as auditor of the nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next equity securities held or deemed to be held by them general meeting at which accounts are laid before or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the the Company.
rights attaching to such equity securities subject to 4.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the such exclusions or other arrangements as the remuneration of the auditor.
Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal difficulties 5.
That Patrick Vaughan be re-elected as a Director.
under the laws of any territory or the requirements 6.
That Andrew Jones be re-elected as a Director.
ofa regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts 7.
That Martin McGann be re-elected as a Director.
or any other matter whatsoever, 8.
That Valentine Beresford be re-elected as a Director.
provided that the authorities in paragraph a and b 9.
That Mark Stirling be re-elected as a Director.
of this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after 10.
That James Dean be re-elected as a Director.
the passing of this resolution or if earlier on the date 11.
That Alec Pelmore be re-elected as a Director.
which is 15 months after the date of this Annual General Meeting, except that the Company may before such 12.
That Andrew Varley be re-elected as a Director.
expiry make an offer or agreement which would or 13.
That Philip Watson be re-elected as a Director.
might require relevant securities or equity securities as the case may be to be allotted after such expiry and 14.
That Rosalyn Wilton be re-elected as a Director.
the Directors may allot relevant securities or equity 15.
That Charles Cayzer be re-elected as a Director.
securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority in question had not expired.
That Andrew Livingston be elected as a Director.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 17 and in 17.
That the Directors be and they are hereby generally accordance with Article 145 of the Companys Articles and unconditionally authorised in accordance with of Association as varied and amended from time to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act time, the Directors be and are hereby authorised, for in substitution for all existing authorities: the period of three years from the date of the passing of this resolution, to offer to any holder of ordinary Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 144 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued shares in the Company, the right to elect to receive Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such ordinary shares credited as fully paid, instead of cash in manner as the Directors may from time to time respect of the whole or part, to be determined by the determine provided that: Directors of all or any dividend on such terms as the a. the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised Directors shall determine subject to the terms provided to be purchased is 62,804,391: in the Articles of Association of the Company from time to time.
b. the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 10p being the nominal amount 19.
That the Directors be and are hereby empowered, in thereof exclusive of expenses payable by accordance with Sections 570 and 573 of the 2006 Act, the Company : to allot equity securities as dened in Section 560 1 of the 2006 Act for cash pursuant to the authority c. the maximum price which may be paid for an conferred by resolution 17 above or by way of a sale of ordinary share exclusive of expenses payable by treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did the Company cannot be more than the higher of: not apply to any such allotment, provided that this i 1 05% of the average market value of an ordinary power shall be limited to: share for the five business days prior to the day on a. the allotment of equity securities in connection with which the ordinary share is contracted to be a rights issue or other pro rata offer but in the case of purchased: and the authority conferred by resolution 17 b by way of ii t he value of an ordinary share calculated on the a rights issue only in favour of holders of ordinary basis of the higher of: shares and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity securities respectively A. the last independent trade of: or attributable to the interests of all those persons at B. the highest current independent bid for, such record dates as the Directors may determine are proportionate as nearly as may be to the a ny number of ordinary shares on the trading venue respective numbers of equity securities held or where the market purchase by the Company will be deemed to be held by them or are otherwise carried out: and allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of such equity securities subject in each case to such the next Annual General Meeting of the Company exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors except that the Company may before such expiry may consider necessary or expedient to deal with make a contract to purchase its own shares which will fractional entitlements or legal difficulties under the or may be completed or executed wholly or partly laws of any territory or the requirements of a after such expiry.
regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue ofshares being represented by depositary receipts 21.
That the Company is authorised to call any general or any other matter whatsoever: meeting of the Company other than the Annual General Meeting by notice of at least 14 clear days b. and the allotment otherwise than pursuant to during the period beginning on the date of the passing paragraph a of this resolution above of equity of this resolution and ending on the conclusion of the securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
6,280,439, By order of the Board and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by resolution 17 above, except that the Company may make an offer or agreement before this power expires which would or might require equity Jadzia Duzniak securities to be allotted and or shares held by the Company Secretary Company in treasury to be sold or transferred after 1 June 2016 such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities and or sell or transfer shares held by the Company in treasury in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 701 of the 2006 Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 145 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued vii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by Notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting: utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service i Shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may do so by utilising the procedures described in the may appoint one or more proxies who need not be CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST shareholders to attend, speak and vote on their behalf, sponsored members, and those CREST members who provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to rights attaching to the different shares held by him or her.
their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
ii Your proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to viii In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by represent you.
Your proxy will vote as you instruct and must means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST attend the meeting for your vote to be counted.
Details of message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly how to appoint the Chairman or another person as your authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the Irelands specications and must contain the information proxy form.
required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes iii Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the nominated under Section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in information rights a Nominated Person may, under an order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by agreement between him her and the shareholder by the issuers agent ID number RA10 by 10 am on 12 July whom he she was nominated, have a right to be 2016.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken appointed or to have someone else appointed as a tobe the time as determined by the timestamp applied proxy for the General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has to the message by the CREST Applications Host from no such proxy appointment right, or does not wish to which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have byenquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of rights of ix The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 paragraph i above does not apply to Nominated a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
The rights described in that paragraph can only x CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
sponsors or voting service providers should note that iv To have the right to attend and vote at the meeting you Euroclear UK & Ireland does not make available special must hold ordinary shares in the Company and your name procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
must be entered on the share register of the Company in Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply accordance with note vi below.
in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, v To be valid, Forms of Proxy and the power of attorney or if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a sponsored member or has appointed a voting service notarially certied copy thereof must be completed and provider s, to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or signed and received by Capita Asset Services at PXS1, The voting service provider s take s such action as shall be Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4ZF necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by as soon as possible but, in any event, so as to arrive no later means of the CREST system by any particular time.
A Form of Proxy accompanies connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their this notice.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in not preclude members from attending and voting at the particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual meeting should they wish to do so.
Where you have concerning practical limitations of the CREST system appointed a proxy using the hard copy proxy form and and timings.
would like to change the instructions using another hard copy proxy form, please contact Capita Asset Services at xi Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, more corporate representatives who may exercise on its BR3 4ZF.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do see above also applies in relation to amended not do so in relation to the same shares.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy xii You may not use any electronic address provided either in appointment received after the relevant deadline will be this Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate documents including the form of proxy to communicate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same with the Company for any purposes other than those share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last expressly stated.
sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
xiii As at 31 May 2016 being the closest practical business day before the publication of this Notice, the Companys vi The time by which a person must be entered on the issued share capital consisted of 628,043,905 ordinary register of members in order to have the right to attend or shares carrying one vote each.
vote at the meeting is 6 pm on 12 July 2016.
If the meeting is adjourned, the time by which a person must be entered xiv Members satisfying the thresholds in Section 527 of the on the register of members in order to have the right to 2006 Act can require the Company to publish a statement attend or vote at the adjourned meeting is 6 pm on the on its website setting out any matter relating to: day that is two days before the date xed for the a. t he audit of the Companys accounts including the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are members after such times shall be disregarded in to be laid before the meeting: or determining the rights of any person to attend or vote atthe meeting.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 146 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued b. a ny circumstances connected with an auditor of the Resolution 2 Annual Remuneration Report Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the Boards Remuneration Policy.
This policy remains the meeting.
unchanged and is not required to be approved at the Annual General Meeting.
The approved Remuneration Policy may be The Company cannot require the members requesting the viewed in the Annual Report for 2014 which is available on the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on Companys website at www.
the website must also be sent to the Companys auditor no The Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders for approval later than the time it makes its statement available on the again no later than 17 July 2017. website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has Resolution 2 is an ordinary resolution to approve the Annual been required to publish on its website.
Remuneration Report on the implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
Section 439 of the Companies Act 2006 xv Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask the Companies Act requires UK-incorporated listed questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any companies to put their Annual Remuneration Report to an such question relating to the business being dealt with at advisory shareholder vote.
As the vote is advisory it does not the meeting but no such answer need be given if: affect the actual remuneration paid to any individual Director.
a. to d o so would interfere unduly with the preparation for The Annual Remuneration Report is set out in full in the Annual the meeting or involve the disclosure of Report and Financial Statements.
condential information: Resolutions 3 and 4 Reappointment of auditors b. t he answer has already been given on a website in the Resolution 3 relates to the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the form of an answer to a question: or Companys auditor to hold office until the next Annual General c. i t is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the Meeting of the Company and Resolution 4 authorises the good order of the meeting that the question Directors to set their remuneration.
Resolutions 5 to 16 Re-election and election of Directors xvi A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Resolutions 5 to 16 deal with re-election and election as Section 311A of the 2006 Act, can be found at applicable of the Directors.
Biographies of each of the www.
Directors seeking re-election or election as applicable can be xvii The following documents are available for inspection at found on pages 56 and 57 of the Annual Report and Financial the registered office of the Company during normal Statements.
The Board has confirmed, following a performance business hours on each weekday public holidays review, that all Directors standing for re-election continue to excluded from the date of this notice until the conclusion perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their role.
of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during Resolution 17 Allotment of share capital the meeting: At the last Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 16 July 2015, the Directors were given authority to allot ordinary a. co pies of the Executive Directors service contracts with shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal the Company: and amount of 20,934,797 representing approximately one-third of b. co pies of letters of appointment of NonExecutive the Companys then issued ordinary share capital.
This authority Directors: and expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
c. a copy of the Articles of Association of the Company.
Your Board considers it appropriate that a similar authority be granted to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company xviii In the case of joint registered holders, the signature of one up to a maximum nominal amount of 20,934,797 representing holder on a proxy card will be accepted and the vote of approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or share capital as at 31 May 2016 the latest practicable date by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of before publication of this Notice during the period up to the the other joint holders.
For this purpose, seniority shall be conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of determined by the order in which names stand on the the Company.
register of members of the Company in respect of the relevant joint holding.
In addition, The Investment Association has said that it will consider as routine a resolution to authorise the allotment of a Explanatory notes: further one-third of share capital for use in connection with a rights issue.
Your Board considers it appropriate to seek this The information below is an explanation of the business to be additional allotment authority at the Annual General Meeting in considered at the Annual General Meeting.
order to take advantage of the exibility it offers.
However, the Board has no present intention of exercising either authority Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Report and Accounts other than in connection with employee share schemes and The Chairman will present the Annual Report and Audited any possible future scrip dividend programme.
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 to the meeting.
Resolution 1 is to consider and approve the Report of As at the date of this Notice the Company does not hold any the Directors, the financial statements and the Auditors report ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
on the financial statements and on the auditable part of the Annual Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 March 2016.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 147 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 18 Authority to offer scrip dividend future funding opportunities.
The authority will be exercised only Under the Articles of Association of the Company, the Board after consideration by the Directors of the effect on net asset may, with the prior authority of an ordinary resolution of the value and if the Directors believe that to do so would be in the Company, offer holders of any particular class of shares who interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchases of ordinary have elected to receive them paid up ordinary shares instead shares would be by means of market purchases through the of cash in respect of all or part of a dividend or dividends London Stock Exchange.
specified by the ordinary resolution.
Listed companies purchasing their own shares are allowed to Under a scrip dividend programme, shareholders who elect to hold them in treasury as an alternative to cancelling them.
do so will be able to receive ordinary shares in the Company in No dividends are paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no lieu of future cash dividends.
In addition to the benefit to voting rights attach to treasury shares.
shareholders of allowing them to increase their shareholdings If resolution 20 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, it is the without incurring costs such as stamp duty or dealing costs, a Companys current intention to hold in treasury the majority of scrip dividend programme will allow the Company to retain the the shares it may purchase pursuant to the authority granted to proceeds which would otherwise be paid out as dividends.
However, in order to respond properly to the Companys While no decision has been made by the Board to introduce a capital requirements and prevailing market conditions, the scrip dividend programme, resolution 18 is being proposed to Directors will need to reassess at the time of any and each provide for exibility in the future.
Shareholders will be sent full actual purchase whether to hold the shares in treasury or details of the terms and conditions and instructions on how to cancel them, provided it is permitted to do so.
The Company participate should the Board resolve to introduce any scrip may hold a maximum of up to 10 per cent.
of its issued share dividend programme.
capital in treasury in accordance with guidelines issued by TheInvestment Association.
In line with investor protection guidelines the authority contained in resolution 18 is sought for three years.
As at 31 May 2016 the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice, there were share awards over Resolution 19 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights 6,827,517 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company Resolution 19 will empower the Directors to allot ordinary representing 1.09% of the Companys issued ordinary share sharesin the capital of the Company for cash on a noncapital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary pre-emptive basis: shares was exercised in full, these awards would represent 1.09% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
In connection with a rights issue or other pro-rata offer toexisting shareholders.
Resolution 21 Notice period for general meetings 2.
Otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, up to a It is proposed in resolution 21 that shareholders should maximum nominal value of 6,280,439, representing approvethe continued ability of the Company to hold general approximately 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share meetings other than the Annual General Meeting on 14 clear capital of the Company as at 31 May 2016 the latest days notice.
practicable date before publication of this Notice.
This resolution is required under Section 307A of the Companies The Board intends to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-Emption Act.
Under that section, a traded company which wishes to be Groups Statement of Principles and not to allot shares for cash able to call general meetings other than an Annual General on a non pre-emptive basis pursuant to the authority in Meeting on 14 clear days notice must obtain shareholders Resolution 19: approval.
1. in excess of an amount equal to 5 per cent.
of the total The resolution is valid up to the next Annual General Meeting of issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding the Company and needs to be renewed annually.
treasury shares : or The Company will also need to meet the requirements for voting by electronic means under Section 307A of the Companies Act 2. in excess of an amount equal to 7.5 per cent.
of the total before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares within a rolling three year period, without The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of prior consultation with shareholders, routine for general meetings, but only where the exibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to in each case other than in connection with an acquisition or the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously with the allotment or which has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed intheannouncement of the allotment.
Resolution 20 Authority to purchase own shares Resolution 20 gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 62,804,391 representing approximately 10 per cent.
of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 31 May 2016 the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice and sets minimum and maximum prices.
This authority will expire at the conclusion ofthe next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter under review, taking into account the financial resources of the Company, the Companys share price and
