INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued to the members of Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Procedures designed to address these risks included testing of material journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluation of managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cut-off procedures to verify proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and testing the existence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
In addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit work each year.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table on the opposite page.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
126 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 1.
Accounting for the reverse acquisition of Al Noor On 15 February 2016, Mediclinic completed the We evaluated managements assessment that it is the reverse acquisition of Al Noor through a scheme of shareholders of Mediclinic the legal subsidiary that arrangement.
Mediclinic shareholders exchanged effectively control the combined business following the their shares in Mediclinic for shares in Al Noor, which transaction, even though Al Noor is the legal parent, resulted in Mediclinic becoming the accounting concluding that Mediclinic should be identified as the acquirer in the business combination although Al accounting acquirer in the business combination.
The Noor is the legal parent.
Of the total consideration transaction has been treated as a reverse acquisition of 1 359m, 913m was paid to Al Noor shareholders on this basis.
in cash in the form of a special dividend and a share We obtained the report issued by the external repurchase offer, with the balance of 446m being valuation experts engaged by the Group and used to the deemed share element in the reverse takeover.
perform the provisional purchase price allocation and We focused on this transaction because of to assist with the identification of identifiable assets judgement involved in the purchase price allocation, in the business combination.
Using our own valuation the materiality of the transaction and the complexity specialists, we assessed the process and methodology of the associated accounting, tax and disclosures, adopted by managements experts and the underlying directing our attention in particular at the following assumptions, the most important of which were the areas: discount rate and relief from royalty rates used in their models, and tested the mathematical accuracy of the The acquisition of Al Noor for a total valuation models for each of the significant intangible consideration of 1 359m has led to the assets acquired.
recognition of goodwill of 1 189m and intangible assets of 65m.
Judgement is involved in We evaluated the methodology and tested the allocating the purchase price to the tangible mathematical accuracy of the calculations of the and intangible assets identified in the business Group for the deemed consideration of 1 359m combination together with the valuation of the paid to Al Noor shareholders.
We corroborated the intangible assets requiring specialist skills and underlying information inputs, including the share knowledge.
In addition, the accounting for the prices, exchange ratios and foreign exchange rates reverse acquisition involved the quantification of with independent data sources and we checked the a deemed element of consideration payable to contractual agreements.
Al Noor shareholders for shares that Mediclinic We obtained the signed contractual agreements would have had to issue to Al Noor shareholders relating to the reverse acquisition and read significant in return for their proportionate equity interest contract terms relevant to the accounting and in the combined entity.
This directly impacted disclosures in the financial statements.
the total amount of goodwill recognised in the transaction: We substantively tested journal entries and supporting The presentation and disclosure of the business workings and evidence relating to the accounting for combination in the financial statements is the exchange of shares, special dividend and internal unusual because the reverse takeover resulted restructuring steps, agreeing them to the contracts in Mediclinic being the accounting acquirer and to the terms of the scheme of arrangement.
although Al Noor is the legal parent company of We evaluated the capital and equity movements of the Group.
The equity and comparative numbers both Al Noor, the legal acquirer, and Mediclinic, the in the consolidated financial statements relate accounting acquirer, for accuracy by comparison to Mediclinic, whereas the legal shareholding to the terms of the scheme of arrangement and relates to Al Noor: whether the Groups disclosures in respect of the The acquisition of Al Noor was effected through reverse acquisition were reasonable and reflected the a scheme of arrangement approved by a Court transaction terms.
of Law and was preceded by a number of internal restructuring steps: Deploying our tax specialists, we evaluated the external tax opinions obtained by management and The effective date of the transaction did not determined that the steps taken by the Group in coincide with a reporting period end and the effecting the transaction were consistent with the opening balance sheet of Al Noor therefore advice obtained and in compliance with relevant tax needed to be prepared at 15 February 2016. laws and regulations.
Management has undertaken a fair value exercise to conform Al Noors opening balance sheet to Mediclinics accounting policies and disclosure practices and to consider the completeness and accuracy of opening balances, including provisions for asset recoverability and contingencies: and 127 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
