CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP Restated m m Inow Inow Notes outow outow CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Cash received from customers Cash paid to suppliers and employees Cash generated from operations Interest received Interest paid Tax paid Net cash generated from operating activities  CASH FLOW FROM INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Investment to maintain operations Investment to expand operations Business combinations Al Noor Hospitals Group plc shares repurchased  Special dividend to existing Al Noor Hospitals Group plc shareholders  Proceeds on disposal of property, equipment and vehicles Disposal of subsidiary Acquisition of investment in associate Dividends received from equity accounted investment Proceeds from money market fund Insurance proceeds Loans advanced Net cash utilised generated before nancing activities CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds of shares issued Share issue costs Share subscription February 2016 Distributions to non-controlling interests Distributions to shareholders Proceeds from borrowings  Repayment of borrowings Renancing transaction costs Settlement of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc share option scheme Shares purchased Forfeitable Share Plan Proceeds from disposal of treasury shares Acquisition of non-controlling interest Proceeds on disposal of non-controlling interest Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  Opening balance of cash and cash equivalents Exchange rate uctuations on foreign cash Closing balance of cash and cash equivalents  140 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 March 2016 1.
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Mediclinic International plc is a private hospital Group with three operating platforms in Southern Africa South Africa and Namibia, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates, with an equity investment in the UK.
Its core purpose is to enhance the quality of life of patients by providing cost-effective acute care specialised hospital services.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, including IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments to fair value.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the annual financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.
Functional and presentation currency The financial statements and financial information are presented in pound sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
The functional currency of the majority of the Groups entities, and the currencies of the primary economic environments in which they operate, is the South African rand, Swiss franc and United Arab Emirates dirham.
The United Arab Emirates dirham is pegged against the United States dollar at a rate of 3.6725 per US dollar.
Due to the reverse acquisition which occurred during the financial year, the Groups presentation currency changed from the South African rand in 2015 to pound sterling in 2016.
A change in presentational currency is a change in accounting policy which is accounted for retrospectively.
Financial information reported in rand in the prior years financial statements has been translated to sterling using the procedures outlined below: Assets and liabilities were translated at the closing sterling rates: Income and expenses were translated at average sterling exchange rates: and Differences resulting from retranslation have been recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
The comparative numbers have been restated for the change in presentation currency.
Within the consolidated income statement certain line items were reclassified for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The reclassifications had no impact on the reported profit or net asset measures of the Group.
The following reclassifications have been made to the consolidated income statement: 1 The mark-to-market loss of 19m relating to the ineffective cash flow hedge has been reclassified from other gains or losses to finance cost as the ineffective portion of the hedge should match the classification of the hedged item.
2 Operating profit includes other gains of 24m.
Previously it was shown below operating profit to present the income statement by function in terms of IAS 1.
3 Depreciation and amortisation of 68m and 17m has been included in cost of sales and administration and other operating expenses respectively refer to note 21 in order to present the income statement by function in terms of IAS 1.
141 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The following reclassication has been made to the statement of financial position: The UAE end of service benefit obligation of 15m was reclassied from provisions to retirement benefit obligations refer to note 17.
The table below shows the impact on the consolidated income statement and statement of financial position: gures as gures as presented presented in prior Reclassiin current Financial statement line item year cation year Consolidated income statement Cost of sales Administration and other operating expenses Other gains and losses Depreciation and amortisation Finance cost Eect on profit before tax Consolidated statement of financial position Retirement benefit obligations Provisions Non-current liabilities Provisions Current liabilities Total liabilities Going concern Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed in connection with the viability statement, the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Implementation of new accounting standards The adoption of new and revised accounting standards during the year had no impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
Refer to note 34 for new accounting standards and amendments which has been issued but is not yet eective.
2.2 Consolidation and equity accounting a Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to aect those returns through its power over the entity.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the eective date of acquisition until control is lost.
Adjustments to the financial statements of subsidiaries are made when necessary to bring their accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
All intra-company transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identied and recognised separately from the Groups interest therein, and are recognised within equity.
Losses of subsidiaries attributable to non-controlling interests are allocated to the non-controlling interest even if this results in a debit balance being recognised.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Transactions which result in changes in ownership levels, where the company has control of the subsidiary both before and after the transaction are regarded as equity transactions and are recognised directly in the statement of changes in equity.
The difference between the fair value of consideration paid or received and the movement in noncontrolling interest for such transactions is recognised in equity attributable to the owners of the parent.
Where a subsidiary is disposed of and a non-controlling shareholding is retained, the remaining investment is measured to fair value with the adjustment to fair value recognised in profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal of the controlling interest.
"Reverse acquisition accounting On 14 October 2015, the board of directors of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and the independent board of directors of Mediclinic International Limited announced that they had reached an agreement on the terms of a recommended combination of their respective businesses the ""Combination""."
Given the relative size of Al Noor and Mediclinic, the Combination has been classified as a reverse takeover in terms of IFRS 3, based on the analysis of the voting rights after the combination and the composition of the Board of directors.
For the purpose of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Combination was also classified as a reverse takeover.
On 15 February 2016, the entire share capital of Mediclinic International Limited was acquired by Al Noor Hospitals Group plc pursuant to the Mediclinic Scheme.
Al Noor Hospitals Group plc acquired all of the Mediclinic Shares that were not repurchased and cancelled by Mediclinic in the Repurchase Option.
Mediclinic Shareholders were entitled to receive 0.62500 new shares for every Mediclinic share held.
"Al Noor Hospitals Group plc has remained the holding company of the Enlarged Group and has been renamed to ""Mediclinic International plc""."
Mediclinic International plc wholly owns the Al Noor Hospitals Group and the Mediclinic Group, as well as the 29.9% interest in Spire Healthcare plc, which was acquired by Mediclinic International Limited in August 2015.
Accordingly, these consolidated financial statements are issued in the name of Mediclinic International plc previously Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, but are a continuation of the consolidated financial statements of Mediclinic International Limited.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the financial statements of Mediclinic International Limited, including comparative information, have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the legal capital position of Mediclinic International plc.
For further details, refer to note 28.
A capital redemption reserve and a reverse acquisition reserve were created refer to note 12.
Al Noors results have been consolidated in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of the acquisition, 15 February 2016. b Business combinations The Group accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting.
The cost of the business combination is measured as the aggregate of the fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued.
Costs directly attributable to the business combination are expensed as incurred, except the costs to issue debt that are amortised as part of the effective interest and costs to issue equity, which are included in equity.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in profit or loss.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the recognition conditions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair values at acquisition date, except for noncurrent assets or disposal company that are classified as held-for-sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held-for-sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
Contingent liabilities are only included in the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree where there is a present obligation at acquisition date.
On acquisition, the Group assesses the classification of the acquirees assets and liabilities and reclassifies them where the classification is inappropriate for Group purposes.
This excludes lease agreements and insurance contracts, whose classification remains as per their inception date.
143 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued f or the year ended 31 March 2016 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Non-controlling interests arising from a business combination, which are present ownership interests, and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of liquidation, are measured either at the present ownership interests proportionate share in the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets or at fair value.
The treatment is not an accounting policy choice but is selected for each individual business combination, and disclosed in the note for business combinations.
All other components of non-controlling interests are measured at their acquisition date fair values, unless another measurement basis is required by IFRSs.
In cases where the Company held a non-controlling shareholding in the acquiree prior to obtaining control, that interest is measured to fair value as at acquisition date.
The measurement to fair value is included in profit or loss for the year.
Where the existing shareholding was classified as an available-forsale financial asset, the cumulative fair value adjustments recognised previously to other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are recognised in profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment.
Goodwill is determined as the consideration paid, plus the fair value of any shareholding held prior to obtaining control, plus non-controlling interest and less the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree.
If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested on an annual basis for impairment.
If goodwill is assessed to be impaired, that impairment is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of foreign entities is considered an asset of the foreign entity.
In such cases the goodwill is translated to the functional currency of the company at the end of each reporting period with the adjustment recognised in equity through to other comprehensive income.
c Investment in associate Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired.
If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount adjacent to share of profit loss of associates in the income statement.
Profits and losses resulting from upstream and downstream transactions between the Group and its associate are recognised in the Groups financial statements only to the extent of unrelated investors interests in the associates.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in associates are recognised in the income statement.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued d Investment in joint venture Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the joint ventures, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of the joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
2.3 Segment reporting Consistent with internal reporting, the Groups segments are identified as Mediclinic Southern Africa, Mediclinic Switzerland, Mediclinic Middle East, equity investment in the United Kingdom and corporate.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Committee that makes strategic decisions.
The Executive Committee comprises the executive directors and other senior management.
2.4 Property, equipment and vehicles Land and buildings comprise mainly hospitals and offices.
All property, equipment and vehicles are shown at cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at cost less impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on the other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life, as follows: Buildings: 10 100 years Leasehold improvements: 10 years or over the lease contract if shorter Equipment: 3 10 years Furniture and vehicles: 3 8 years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each statement of financial position date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Profit or loss on disposals is determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts.
These are included in the income statement.
145 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued f or the year ended 31 March 2016 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.5 Intangible assets a Trade names Trade names that are deemed to have an indefinite useful life are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Trade names that are deemed to have a finite useful life are capitalised at the cost to the Group and amortised on the straight-line basis over its estimated useful lifetime of 15 to 20 years.
No value is placed on internally developed trade names.
Expenditure to maintain trade names is accounted for against income as incurred.
b Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the subsidiary.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of associates and joint ventures is included in investments in associates and joint ventures.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those CGUs or Groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from business combinations in which goodwill arose.
CGUs have been defined as the operating platforms.
c Computer software Acquired computer software licences and internally developed software programmes are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives 1 5 years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes or development expenditure that does not meet the recognition criteria are recognised as an expense as incurred.
2.6 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The recoverable amount is calculated by estimating future cash benefits that will result from each asset and discounting those cash benefits at an appropriate discount rate.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows CGUs.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
2.7 Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: loans and receivables, available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the asset was acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not subsequently carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Loans and receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the reporting date, which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Investments available-for-sale Other long-term investments are classified as available-for-sale and are included within non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the reporting date.
These investments are carried at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale investments are recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
When available-for-sale investments are either sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are realised and included in profit or loss.
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss These instruments, consisting of financial instruments held-for-trading and those designated at fair value through profit and loss at inception, are carried at fair value.
Derivatives are also classified as held-fortrading unless they are designated as hedges.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of these financial instruments are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Impairment At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and that loss has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the receivables or a group of receivables is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation, and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
In the case of available-for-sale financial assets, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is considered an indicator that the investments are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
2.8 Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts, the legal enforceable right is not contingent of a future event and is enforceable in the normal course of business even in the event of default, bankruptcy and insolvency, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
2.9 Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost, determined on the weighted average method, or net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
2.10 Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
2.11 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of balances with banks and cash on hand and are classified as loans and receivables.
Bank overdrafts are classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost and are disclosed as part of borrowings in current liabilities in the statement of financial position.
147 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued f or the year ended 31 March 2016 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.12 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised liability or a highly probable forecast transaction is designated as a cash flow hedge.
The Group uses interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges.
The Group documents, at inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 19.
The hedging reserve in shareholders equity is shown in note 14.
On the statement of financial position hedging derivatives are not classified based on whether the amount is expected to be recovered or settled within, or after, 12 months.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is more than 12 months: it is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is less than 12 months.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that is designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in other comprehensive income are recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the interest expense on hedged variable rate borrowings is recognised in profit and loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
2.13 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Shares in the Company held by wholly-owned Group companies are classified as treasury shares and are held at cost.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
2.14 Treasury shares Treasury shares are deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
No gains or losses are recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of treasury shares.
All consideration paid or received for treasury shares is recognised directly in equity.
2.15 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Accounts payable is classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.16 Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date.
Borrowing costs are expensed when incurred, except for borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction or acquisition of qualifying assets.
Borrowing cost directly attributable to the construction or acquisition of qualifying assets is added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
A qualifying asset is an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use.
2.17 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
2.18 Current and deferred income tax The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in the countries where the Group and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except for deferred income tax liabilities where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
149 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued f or the year ended 31 March 2016 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.19 Employee benefits a Retirement benefit costs The Group provides defined benefit and defined contribution plans for the benefit of employees, the assets of which are held in separate trustee administered funds.
These plans are funded by payments from the employees and the Group, taking into account recommendations of independent qualified actuaries.
Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to make further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Defined benefit plans A defined benefit plan is a plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
This plan defines an amount of pension benefit an employee will receive on retirement, dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
A net pension asset is recorded only to the extent that it does not exceed the present value of any economic benefit available in the form of reductions in future contributions to the plan, and any unrecognised actuarial losses and past service costs.
The annual pension costs of the Groups benefit plans are charged to the income statement.
Incurred interest costs income on the defined benefit obligations are recognised as wages and salaries.
b Post-retirement medical benefits Some Group companies provide for post-retirement medical contributions in relation to current and retired employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are accounted for by using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, the expected costs of these benefits are accumulated over the service lives of the employees.
Valuation of these obligations is carried out by independent qualified actuaries.
All actuarial gains and losses are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
c Share-based compensation The Group operates a equity-settled, share-based compensation plan, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Company.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: including any market performance conditions excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions: and including the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions and service conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
d Profit sharing and bonus plans The Group recognises a liability and an expense where a contractual obligation exist for short-term incentives.
The amounts payable to employees in respect of the short-term incentive schemes are determined based on annual business performance targets.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.20 Revenue recognition Revenues are measured at the fair value of the consideration that has been received or is to be received and represent the amounts that can be received for services in the regular course of business when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred or services have been rendered.
Discounts, sales taxes and other taxes associated with the revenues have to be deducted.
Revenue primarily comprises fees charged for inpatient and outpatient hospital services.
Services include charges for accommodation, theatre, medical professional services, equipment, radiology, laboratory and pharmaceutical goods used.
Revenue is recorded and recognised during the period in which the hospital service is provided, based upon the amounts due from patients and or medical funding entities.
Fees are calculated and billed based on various tariff agreements with funders.
Discounts comprise retrospective volume discounts granted to certain customers on attainment of certain levels of purchases from the Group.
These are accrued over the course of the arrangement based on estimates of the level of business expected and are adjusted at the end of the arrangement to reflect actual volumes.
In Switzerland, medical services can on occasion be charged based on provisional tariffs as delays can occur in the agreement of tariffs between providers including the Group and funders.
When tariffs have not yet been agreed, tariff provisions are recognised as adjustments in revenue to reflect any uncertainty about collectibility of amounts invoiced.
Revenue continues to be recognised in these circumstances as the Group has developed significant historical experience of continuing to collect revenue for delivered services where tariff negotiations have not concluded with all relevant authorities.
However, a tariff provision will be recorded when the Group identifies any uncertainty around collection of amounts invoiced for delivered services and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required, which can be reliably estimated.
The provision is calculated on the basis of historical experience of outcomes to negotiations between providers and funders and this historical experience is subject to regular reassessment based on the actual outcome to tariff negotiations.
Other revenues earned are recognised on the following bases: a Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time-proportioned basis using the effective interest rate method.
b Rental income Rental income, which is insignificant, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
With the exception of interest income, all the items above are presented as revenue.
2.21 Cost of sales Cost of sales consists of the cost of inventories, including obsolete stock, which have been expensed during the year, together with personnel costs and related overheads which are directly attributable to the provision of services, but excludes depreciation and amortisation.
2.22 Leased assets Leases of property, equipment and vehicles where the Group assumes substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in interest-bearing borrowings.
The interest element of the finance charges is charged to the income statement over the lease period.
The property, equipment and vehicles acquired under finance leasing contracts are depreciated over the useful lives of the assets or the term of the lease agreement if shorter and transfer of ownership at the end of the lease period is uncertain.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.23 Dividend distribution Dividends are recorded in the Groups financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
151 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.24 Foreign currency transactions Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash ow hedges.
Translation dierences on non-monetary financial assets, such as equities classied as availablefor-sale, are included in other comprehensive income.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement within Administration and other operating expenses.
Group entities The results and financial position of all foreign operations that have a functional currency that is dierent from the Groups presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date.
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates for the year.
All resulting exchange dierences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
On consolidation exchange dierences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken directly to other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign operations are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at closing rates at the reporting date.
2.25 Exchange rates The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the period to translate the results and cash ows of overseas subsidiaries, the joint venture and associated undertakings into pound sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those undertakings.
The following exchange rates were applicable during the period: Average rates: Swiss franc UAE dirham South African rand  Period end rates: Swiss franc  UAE dirham South African rand 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 3.1 Financial risk factors In respect of the Groups financial instruments, normal business activities expose the Group to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse eects on the Groups financial performance.
a Market risk i Currency risk Investments in foreign operations The Group has investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is managed primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
Changes in the pound sterling Swiss franc, pound sterling UAE dirham and pound sterling South African rand exchange rate over a period of time result in increased decreased earnings.
Other than the Groups earnings and payment of dividends which are presented and declared in Sterling and thus exposed to currency risk, the Group is not signicantly exposed to currency risk since the operating platforms predominantly operates in its local currency including its debt.
In the case of corporate oshore transactions and or cross-border business combinations, generally forward cover contracts are considered or taken out to minimise foreign currency risk.
Currently there are no forward cover contracts in place.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued The impact of a 10% change in the pound sterling Swiss franc, pound sterling South African rand and the pound sterling UAE dirham exchange rates for a sustained period of one year is: profit for the period would increase decrease by 11m 2015: increase decrease by 12m due to exposure to the GBP Swiss franc exchange rate: profit for the period would increase decrease by 6m 2015: increase decrease by 4m due to exposure to the GBP UAE dirham exchange rate: profit for the period would increase decrease by 7m 2015: increase decrease by 10m due to exposure to the GBP South African rand exchange rate: foreign currency translation reserve would increase decrease by 112m 2015: increase decrease by 106m due to exposure to the GBP Swiss franc exchange rate: and foreign currency translation reserve would increase decrease by 24m 2015: increase decrease by 20m due to exposure to the GBP UAE dirham exchange rate.
foreign currency translation reserve would increase decrease by 12m 2015: increase decrease by 10m due to exposure to the GBP South African rand exchange rate.
ii Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings as well as short-term deposits.
Borrowings and short-term deposits issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Interest rate derivatives expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
Group policy is to maintain an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings and placings.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps.
Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
Generally, the Group raises long-term borrowings at floating rates and swaps them into fixed rates.
Under the interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals primarily quarterly, the difference between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the reporting date and the stipulated change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the reporting period in the case of instruments that have floating rates.
If interest rates had been 25 basis points higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups: profit for the period would increase decrease by 3m 2015: increase decrease by 1m.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its unhedged variable rate borrowings and cash.
iii Other price risk The Group is not materially exposed to commodity or any other price risk.
b Credit risk Financial assets that potentially subject the Group to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash, short-term deposits and trade and other receivables and derivative financial contracts.
The Groups cash equivalents and short-term deposits, are placed with quality financial institutions with a high credit rating.
Trade receivables are represented net of the allowance for doubtful receivables.
Credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the large number of customers comprising the Groups customer base, which consists mainly of medical schemes and insurance companies.
The financial condition of these clients in relation to their credit standing is evaluated on an ongoing basis.
Medical schemes and insurance companies are forced to maintain minimum reserve levels.
The policy for patients that do not have a medical scheme or an insurance company paying for the Groups service, is to require a preliminary payment instead.
The Group does not have any significant exposure to any individual customer or counterparty.
The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to hedging instruments.
The counterparties to these contracts are major financial institutions.
The Group monitors its positions and limits the extent to which it enters into contracts with any one party.
The carrying amounts of financial assets included in the statement of financial position represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to these assets.
At 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2016, the Group did not consider there to be a significant concentration of credit risk.
153 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 3. c Liquidity risk The Group manages liquidity risk by monitoring cash ow forecasts to ensure that it has sucient cash to meet operational needs, while maintaining sucient headroom on its undrawn borrowing facilities at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants where applicable on any of its borrowing facilities.
Given that the Group has bank facilities in place which expires during 2019 2020, the Group did not consider there to be a significant concentration of liquidity risk.
m m The Groups unused overdraft facilities are: The following table details the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its financial liabilities.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash ows of financial liabilities based on the required date of repayment.
The table includes both interest and principal cash ows.
The analysis of derivative financial instruments has been drawn up based on undiscounted net cash inows outows that settle on a net basis.
Contractual Beyond Carrying cash ows months years years Financial liabilities value m m m m 31 March 2016 Interest-bearing borrowings  Derivative financial instruments Trade payables Other payables and accrued expenses 31 March 2015 Interest-bearing borrowings Derivative financial instruments Trade payables Other payables and accrued expenses 3.2 Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are determined as follows: a Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables: The carrying amounts reported in the statement of financial position approximate fair values because of the short-term maturities of these amounts.
b Borrowings and trade and other payables: The carrying amounts reported in the statement of financial position approximate fair values determined on the basis of a discounted cash ow methodology.
c Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: The fair value of these financial instruments is derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical assets.
d Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash ows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
e Available-for-sale financial assets: The carrying amounts reported in the statement of financial position are determined based on an appropriate valuation methodology.
Financial instruments that are measured at fair value in the statement of financial position, are disclosed by level of the following fair value hierarchy: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Input other than quoted prices included within level 1 that is observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices Level 3 Input for the asset or liability that is not based on observable market data unobservable input.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 3.3 Capital management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 16, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, retained earnings and other reserves and non-controlling interest as disclosed in notes 12, 13, 14 and 15 respectively.
The Groups Audit and Risk Committee reviews the going concern status and capital structure of the Group annually.
The Group balances its overall capital structure through the payment of dividends, new share issues and share buy-backs as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt.
The debt-to-adjusted capital ratios at 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 were as follows: m m Borrowings Less: cash and cash equivalents  Net debt  Total equity  Debt-to-equity capital ratio 4.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by denition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Estimated impairment of goodwill and intangible asset The Group tests annually whether goodwill and the indefinite useful life intangible asset, resulting from the Al Noor and Swiss acquisitions, have suered any impairment.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates in respect of growth and discount rates and it assumes a stable regulatory environment.
Regulatory environments are subject to uncertainties.
The uncertainties in the regulatory environments can have an impact on the recoverability of the goodwill and the intangible assets recoverable amount.
Refer to note 6. b Retirement benets The cost of dened benefit pension plans, post-retirement medical benefit liability obligations, and UAE end of service obligations are determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
Further details are given in note 17. c Property, equipment and vehicles The estimation of the useful lives of property, equipment and vehicles is based on historical performance as well as expectations about future use and therefore requires a significant degree of judgement to be applied by management.
These depreciation rates represent managements current best estimate of the useful lives and residual values of the assets.
For a private hospital it is fundamentally important that the earnings potential of a building is maintained on a permanent basis.
The Group therefore follows a structured maintenance programme with regard to hospital buildings with the specic goal to prolong the useful lifetime of these buildings.
d Provision for tari risks Provisions were raised for risks related to Swiss tari risk, including historic tari disputes at various Swiss hospitals.
The provisions are determined by management and represent an estimate based on the information available.
Additional disclosure of these estimates of provisions is included in note 18.
Tari provisions are charged or released to revenue in the income statement.
155 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued f or the year ended 31 March 2016 4.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS continued e Purchase price allocation Critical accounting estimates and assumptions were made in the purchase price allocation of the Al Noor acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The fair value of an asset or liability represents the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.
We used an independent valuer to assist in the valuation of Al Noors opening balance sheet.
The more material estimates and assumptions relate mainly to the identification and valuation of intangible assets and the determination of the useful lives of these assets.
The valuation of the identified intangible assets uses assumptions relating to future cash flows and discount rates which are based on forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental.
The key judgements applied were as follows: The trademarks acquired were measured by applying the Relief From Royalty RFR methodology.
RFR estimates the value of the trademark based on amounts an unrelated party will pay as a percentage of revenue for use of the trade mark.
A royalty factor has been applied based on comparable transactions.
The selected royalty factor reflects that the Al Noor trademark is specific to the Abu Dhabi market: and Certain favourable lease terms were identified in the acquired business, resulting from fixed rental terms that extend beyond a five-year period.
The identified intangible asset has been estimated as the difference between the present value of the existing contractual rent schedule and the lease schedule using current market prices, discounted to present value.
The purchase price allocation exercise considered whether any other intangible assets should be identified, including consideration of customer contracts and non-contractual relationships.
However, no other material assets were separately identifiable.
The excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired has been recorded as goodwill.
The relative proportion of identified intangible assets to goodwill was also considered and was benchmarked to other transactions in the healthcare sector.
Goodwill represents benefits from Al Noors geographic footprint and expansion opportunities, synergies from a combined business in the UAE and a skilled workforce assembled at the operating facilities.
In addition, a fair value exercise was undertaken for all of the other assets and liabilities acquired as a result of the transaction in order to ensure completeness of liabilities in the opening balance sheet for all contractual and other obligations and to ensure that all assets are stated at their recoverable amounts.
An exercise was also undertaken to conform the Al Noor business to the accounting policies of the Group.
The purchase price allocation for the Al Noor transaction remains provisional at 31 March 2016 as the Group has one year from the acquisition date to re-measure the fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities and resulting goodwill if new information is obtained relating to conditions that existed at the acquisition date.
f Income taxes The Group has tax losses and other deductible temporary differences that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that their recovery is probable, having regard to the projected future taxable income of these entities and after taking into account specific risk factors that affect the recovery of these assets.
Management uses the same profit projections for these purposes as are used by the business, for example in assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
Managements judgement in this area is applied on a case-by-case basis due to the jurisdictional nature of taxation.
This analysis is considered afresh at each balance sheet date.
PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES Land cost Buildings Cost Accumulated depreciation Accumulated impairment Land and buildings Equipment Cost Accumulated depreciation  Furniture and vehicles Cost Accumulated depreciation  Subtotal  Capital expenditure in progress   157 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 5.
PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES continued Capital expenFurniture Land and diture in and buildings progress Equipment vehicles Total m m m m m At 1 April 2014 Cost Accumulated depreciation Net book value Year ended 31 March 2015 Net opening book value Capital expenditure Business combinations Exchange dierences Disposals Prior year capital expenditure completed Impairment losses Depreciation per income statement Net closing book value At 31 March 2015 Cost Accumulated depreciation Accumulated impairment Net book value Year ended 31 March 2016 Net opening book value  Capital expenditure Exchange dierences  Disposals Business combinations Prior year capital expenditure completed Depreciation per income statement Net closing book value   At 31 March 2016 Cost    Accumulated depreciation   Accumulated impairment Net book value   An impairment charge was booked after the earnings potential of the original part of the Mediclinic Vergelegen Hospital building was significantly affected after a flood caused damage to the building.
PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES continued Total additions To maintain operations  To expand operations Property, equipment and vehicles with a book value of 2 508m 2015: 2 410m are encumbered as security for borrowings see note 16.
Included in equipment is capitalised finance lease equipment with a book value of 1m 2015: 1m.
Software and IT Trade Lease projects names Goodwill Total m m m m m 6.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS At 1 April 2014 Cost Accumulated amortisation and impairment Net book value Year ended 31 March 2015 Net opening book value Amortisation charge Additions Business combinations Exchange dierences Net closing book value At 31 March 2015 Cost Accumulated amortisation and impairment Net book value Year ended 31 March 2016 Net opening book value   Amortisation charge Additions Business combinations  Exchange dierences  Net closing book value   At 31 March 2016 Cost  Accumulated amortisation and impairment  Net book value   Relates to a favourable lease contracts on buildings.
The leases are characterised by fixed annual rent without annual rent escalations for most part of the contract.
159 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 6.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Impairment testing of significant goodwill balances and indefinite useful life trade name The carrying amounts of significant goodwill and Swiss indefinite life trade names is considered annually for impairment testing.
The impairment tests are based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash ow projections based on financial budgets covering a five-year period.
The discount rates used reect specic risks related to the hospital industry.
These calculations indicate that there was no impairment in the carrying value of goodwill balances and the Swiss trade names.
GROUP m m Carrying amount of Al Noor goodwill Carrying amount of Swiss goodwill Carrying amount of Swiss indefinite life trade names  Impairment testing of Al Noor goodwill The Al Noor goodwill comprises four CGUs and the key assumptions for the impairment testing are the same.
Key assumptions used for the value-in-use calculations for the annual impairment testing were as follows: Future earnings is based on budgets and forecasts that represents management best view of future admissions, taris and patient mix and includes savings relating to operational and capital expenditures.
Discount rates discount rates reect managements estimate of the time value and the risks associated with the Al Noor business.
The weighted average cost of capital WACC has been determined by considering the respective debt and equity costs and ratios.
The discount rate applied to cash ow projections is 7.8%.
Growth rates growth rates are based on budgeted gures and managements estimates.
The estimated gures assume a stable regulatory and tari environment.
Cash ows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a 2.5% growth rate.
Sensitivity analysis for the goodwill, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded the carrying value by approximately 292m.
A fall in growth rate to 1.9% which will also include the possible eect of changes in budgeted margins or a rise in discount rate to 8.3% would remove the remaining headroom.
Impairment testing of Swiss goodwill and indefinite life trade names Key assumptions used for the value-in-use calculations for the annual impairment testing were as follows: Discount rates discount rates reect managements estimate of the time value and the risks associated with the Swiss business.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash ow projections is 4.7% 2015: 5.8%.
Cash ows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a 1.6% 2015: 1.6% growth rate.
Sensitivity analysis for the goodwill, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded the carrying value by approximately 1 212m 2015: 326m.
A fall in growth rate to 0.3% 2015: 1.1% which will also include the possible eect of changes in budgeted margins or a rise in discount rate to 5.8% 2015: 6.2% would remove the remaining headroom.
EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS Investment in associates Investment in joint venture  7.1 Investment in associates Listed investment Unlisted investment Reconciliation of carrying value at the beginning and end of the period Listed investment Total cost of equity investment note 29 Share of profit of associated company Dividend received from associated company Set out below are details of the associate which is material to the Group: Country of incorporation Name of entity and place of business ownership Spire Healthcare Group plc United Kingdom Spire Healthcare Group plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
It does not issue publicly available quarterly financial information and has a December year end.
The associate was acquired on 24 August 2015.
The investment in associate was equity accounted for the four months to 31 December 2015.
No significant events occurred since 1 January 2016 to the reporting date.
A provisional notional purchase price allocation assessment did not identify any significant intangible assets other than goodwill.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups material As at associate is set out below.
 Dec Summarised statement of financial position m Current assets  Non-current assets Total assets Current liabilities  Non-current liabilities Net assets Mediclinics eective interest Mediclinics eective interest in net assets Goodwill purchase adjustment  Total carrying value of equity investment Market value of listed investment at 31 March 2016  Although the market value of the investment is below the carrying value at 31 March 2016, management has concluded that no impairment exists.
The market value of the investment has not been at a level below its cost for a prolonged period and the shortfall is not considered to be significant.
161 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 As at  Dec m 7.
EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS continued Summarised statement of comprehensive income Revenue profit from continuing operations Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income GROUP m m Unlisted investment Opening balance Share in current year profits losses Additional amounts invested Exchange dierences The aggregate information of the associate that is not individually material: The Groups share of profit loss The Groups share of other comprehensive loss The Groups share of total comprehensive loss Aggregate carrying amount of Groups investment in associate For the year ended 31 March 2016, the associate is accounted for by using its financial information for the 12 months ended 31 December 2015, since it has a dierent financial year end.
Refer to the annexure for further details of investments in associates.
7.2 Investment in joint venture Unlisted Carrying value of investment in joint venture Opening balance Share in current year losses Loans repaid Additional amounts invested Exchange dierences  The aggregate information of joint venture that is not individually material: The Groups share of profit loss The Groups share of total comprehensive loss Aggregate carrying amount of Groups interest in this joint venture  For the year ended 31 March 2016, the joint venture is accounted for by using its financial information for the 12 months ended 31 December 2015, since it has a dierent financial year end.
Details of the joint venture appear in the Annexure.
OTHER INVESTMENTS AND LOANS Unlisted no active market Loans and receivables  Available-for-sale: Shares Other investments and loans are held in the following currencies: Swiss franc: CHF1m 2015: CHF2m South African rand  UAE dirham Supported by the underlying businesss financial position, the credit quality of the loans is considered satisfactory.
DEFERRED TAX The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: Opening balance Income statement charge for the year  Provision for the year  Tax rate changes Business acquisitions Exchange dierences Charged to other comprehensive income  Balance at the end of the year  Deferred income tax assets Deferred income tax liabilities  The deferred tax relating to current assets and current liabilities contain temporary dierences that are most likely to realise in the next 12 months.
163 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 9.
DEFERRED TAX continued The deferred tax balance is comprised of temporary dierences arising in separate legal entities.
Osetting has been applied on a legal entity basis.
The table below shows the deferred tax balances and movements in the various categories before osetting was applied: Tangible Intangible Financial Current Provisions assets assets assets assets and others Total m m m m m m Deferred tax liabilities At 1 April 2014 Charged credited to the income statement Charged credited to other comprehensive income Charged directly to equity Exchange dierences Acquisition of subsidiary At 31 March 2015 Set-o of deferred tax liabilities pursuant to set-o provisions Net deferred tax liabilities at the end of the year At 1 April 2015  Charged credited to the income statement Charged credited to other comprehensive income Charged directly to equity Exchange dierences Acquisition of subsidiary At 31 March 2016   Set-o of deferred tax liabilities pursuant to set-o provisions Net deferred tax liabilities at the end of the year 164 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 9.
DEFERRED TAX continued LongTax losses Current Provisions term Derivacarried assets and others liabilities tives forward Total m m m m m m Deferred tax assets At 1 April 2014 Charged credited to the income statement Charged credited to other comprehensive income Charged directly to equity Exchange dierences Acquisition of subsidiary At 31 March 2015 Set-o of deferred tax liabilities pursuant to set-o provisions Net deferred tax assets at the end of the year At 1 April 2015  Charged credited to the income statement Charged credited to other comprehensive income   Charged directly to equity Exchange dierences Acquisition of subsidiary At 31 March 2016   Set-o of deferred tax liabilities pursuant to set-o provisions Net deferred tax assets at the end of the year Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
165 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 9.
DEFERRED TAX continued At 31 March 2016, the Group had unutilised tax losses of approximately 18m 2015: 14m potentially available for oset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 29m 2015: 35m has been recognised in respect of gross losses based on profitability from approved budgets and business plans.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining gross losses due to the unpredictability and availability of future profit streams in the relevant jurisdictions.
The majority of the unrecognised losses relate to Switzerland, which expire after 7 years.
Their utilisation is dependent upon the profitability of their entities.
The financial projections used in assessing the future profitability are consistent with those used in assessing the carrying value of goodwill as set out in note 6.
The rate of utilisation of these losses will occur at dierent rates due to the incidence and timing of profits within these entities which consequently impacts their recognition as deferred tax assets.
In Switzerland, tax losses expire after 7 years, unused tax losses in Switzerland are as follows: GROUP m m Unused tax losses not recognised as deferred tax assets Expiry in 1 year Expiry in 2 years Expiry in 3 to 7 years No expiry No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of temporary dierences arising on investments in subsidiaries and equity accounted investments where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal and it is probable that such dierences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Similarly tax is not provided where it is expected that such distributions will not give rise to a tax liability at the reporting date.
The gross timing dierence in this regard amounts to 522m 2015: 421m.
There are no significant expected income tax consequences of earnings being distributed from Switzerland and the UAE, as there is no dividend withholding tax applicable to earnings being distributed from these operations.
Although South African distributions to the UK are typically subject to dividend withholding taxes, distributions from South Africa are not expected to have income tax consequences in the foreseeable future as the operations in South Africa have a significant contributed tax capital balance from which may be paid dividends free from withholding tax.
In line with the South African Reserve Bank requirement, it is intended that dividends to South African resident shareholders on the South African share register will be paid from a planned dividend access share scheme.
INVENTORIES Inventories consist of: Pharmaceutical products Consumables Finished goods and work in progress The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 481m 2015: 455m.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade receivables  Less provision for impairment of receivables Trade receivables net  Other receivables Included in other receivables are Swiss unbilled services of 82m 2015: 68m.
More than 92% will be recovered by Swiss insurance companies and federal authorities cantons.
Swiss insurance companies are subject to regular creditworthiness checks e. g. minimum reserve levels.
Non-current receivables The non-current receivable relates to a 25-year prepaid lease agreement in the UAE.
Trade and other receivables are categorised as loans and receivables.
The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: South African rand Swiss franc  UAE dirham Trade receivables to the value of 41m 2015: 46m have been ceded as security for banking facilities.
Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are trade receivables with a carrying value of 151m 2015: 98m that are past due at the reporting date, but which the Group has not impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered to be recoverable.
The ageing of these receivables are as follows: Up to 3 months Over 3 months Movement in the provision for impairment of receivables Opening balance Provision for receivables impairment Exchange dierences Amounts written o as uncollectable Balance at the end of the year Amounts written o during the year relate to individually identied accounts that are considered to be uncollectable.
Provision for impairment of receivables is based on historical collection trends, current market conditions and expected future cash ows.
Management considers the credit quality of the fully performing trade receivables to be high in light of the nature of these trade receivables as described in note 3.1 b.
Included in the Groups other receivables balance are other receivables with a carrying value of nil 2015: 1m that are past due at the reporting date.
167 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 12.
SHARE CAPITAL Capital Reverse Share redemption Share Acquisition Number of capital reserve premium reserve Total Ordinary shares shares m m m m m At 1 April 2014 Shares issued Share issue costs At 31 March 2015 Shares issued August 2015 Share issue costs At 14 February 2016 Reverse acquisition    Combined capital structure on 15 February 2016  Share subscription February 2016   Reduction of share premium    The Company received legal advice on the scheme of arrangement and the premium on issue of share capital to Mediclinic International Limited shareholders did not qualify as merger relief under United Kingdom law.
Reverse acquisition The prior number of shares from 1 April 2015 to 14 February 2016 represents equivalent number of Mediclinic International Limited shares converted using the Mediclinic scheme of arrangement conversion ratio of 0.625.
From 15 February 2016 the capital structure of the Group represents that of Mediclinic International plc.
The Companies Act provides that where shares of a company are repurchased and funded by a new issue of shares, the amount by which the Companys issued share capital is diminished on cancellation of the shares are transferred to a capital redemption reserve to maintain capital.
The reduction of the Companys share capital shall be treated as if the capital redemption reserve were paid up capital of the Company.
The reverse acquisition reserve represents the net of the following adjustments resulting from the Al Noor reverse acquisition: adjustment of the capital structure share capital and share premium of the Group to that of the legal parent: adjustment to account for the premium on shares issued to the Mediclinic International Limited shareholders: and the share value component of the total consideration.
SHARE CAPITAL continued Number of Total shares m Treasury shares At 1 April 2014 Repurchase of shares Forfeitable Share Plan Utilised by the Mpilo Trusts At 31 March 2015 Repurchase of shares Forfeitable Share Plan Disposal of shares Forfeitable Share Plan Utilised by the Mpilo Trusts  At 31 March 2016 The balance of the treasury comprise: Forfeitable Share Plan  Mpilo Trusts  The prior year number of shares have been converted using the Mediclinic scheme of arrangement conversion ratio of 0.625 Mediclinic International plc shares for each Mediclinic International Limited share held.
GROUP Ordinary shares Number of shares in issue:   Nominal value: p Value: indicating nominal and share premium amount Rights of the Ordinary Shares the Ordinary Shares to profits: All dividends shall be declared and paid according to the amounts paid up on the Ordinary Shares.
Rights of the Ordinary Shares to capital: If there is a return of capital on winding-up or otherwise, the Ordinary shares shall confer full rights but they do not confer any rights of redemption, and shall rank after the Subscriber Shares.
Voting rights of the Ordinary Shares: The Ordinary Shares shall confer, on each holder of the Ordinary Shares, the right to receive notice of and to attend, speak and vote at all general meetings of the Company.
Each Ordinary Share carries the right to one vote on a poll.
GROUP Subscriber shares fully paid up Number of shares in issue: Nominal value: p Value: indicating nominal and share premium amount 10 issued Ordinary Shares were converted into and designated as subscriber shares of 10 pence each.
The Subscriber Shares carry no rights to receive any of the profits of the Company available for distribution by way of dividend or otherwise.
If there is a return of capital on a winding-up or otherwise, the assets of the Company available for distribution among the members shall be applied first in repaying in full to the holder of the Subscriber Shares the amount paid up on such shares.
Except as provided above, the Subscriber Shares shall not carry any right to participate in profits or assets of the Company.
The holders of the Subscriber Shares shall not be entitled to receive notice of or attend and vote at any general meeting of the Company unless a resolution is proposed which varies, modies, alters or abrogates any of the rights attaching to the Subscriber Shares.
169 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued f or the year ended 31 March 2016 12.
SHARE CAPITAL continued Mpilo trusts The Mpilo trusts were created in 2005 for purposes of an employee share scheme to introduce Mediclinic Southern Africa employees up to first line management level as shareholders of the Group.
This share-based payment arrangement is accounted for as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction.
As qualifying employees leave prior to entitlement and shares become available further allocations were made to new and existing qualifying employees.
The allocations of units made by the trusts were subject to lock-in periods which expired in December 2015, with the shares linked to participating employees units either transferred to them or sold with the proceeds of the sale distributed to them.
Summary of the allocations: ParticiQualifying Issue pating Allocation date price shares Expiry date First allocation 1 Dec 2005 R18.40 80 31 Dec 2015 Second allocation 1 Dec 2009 R18.08 50 31 Dec 2015 Third allocation 1 Dec 2010 R18.59 100 31 Dec 2015 Fourth allocation 1 Dec 2012 R17.20 70 31 Dec 2015 Fifth allocation 18 shares for 31 Dec 2015 every completed years service Per qualifying employee for each completed year of service since previous allocation.
Initial 1 000 shares per qualifying employee and additional 80 shares for every year completed service prior 1 December 2005.
During the year, the expiry date of the Fourth Allocation was changed from 31 March 2018 to 31 December 2015.
31 March 31 March Movement in the number of Mpilo 2016 2015 shares outstanding are: Outstanding price per share Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year R17.82 2015: R17.50 7197831 7830994 Mpilo shares forfeited 119296 454288 Fifth allocation 1159711 Mpilo shares vested R16.28 2015: R17.84 8238246 178875 Outstanding at the end of the period 2015: R17.82 7197831 The share-based payment charge relating to the Mpilo trust grants are shown in note 14 and note 21.
"Forfeitable Share Plan The Mediclinic International Limited Forfeitable Share Plan ""FSP"" was approved by the Companys shareholders in July 2014 as a long-term incentive scheme for selected senior management executive directors and prescribed officers."
With the change in control and the acquisition of the Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, the performance conditions of FSP have been finalised to the extent that the performance conditions were met as at 30 September 2015.
The FSP shares will vest after the vesting period has lapsed.
SHARE CAPITAL continued Under the FSP, conditional share awards are granted to selected employees of the Group.
The vesting of these shares are subject to continued employment, and is conditional upon achievement of performance targets, measured over a three-year period.
The performance conditions for the year under review constitute a combination of: absolute total shareholder return TSR 40% weighting and underlying diluted headline earnings per share 60% weighting.
Weighted average fair value at  March March grant date oer price Number Number Opening balance R Granted R  Shares sold Vested Closing balance  A valuation has been determined and an expense recognised over a three-year period.
The fair value of the TSR performance condition has been determined by using the Monte Carlo simulation model and the fair value of the headline earning per share performance condition, consensus forecasts have been used.
The share-based payment charge relating to the Forfeitable Share Plan are shown in note 14 and note 21.
The following assumptions have been used to determine the fair value of the TSR performance condition: Risk-free rate Dividend yield Volatility Apart from the FSP, there are no other share option schemes in place.
Therefore, no director exercised any rights in relation to share option schemes during the reporting period.
Al Noor Hospital Group plc directors which exercised options before the acquisition date 15 February 2016 is regarded as a pre-acquisition transaction in these Group financial statements.
RETAINED EARNINGS Opening balance profit for the year Dividends paid Capital redemption on tender oer Reduction of share premium Actuarial gains and losses Transactions with non-controlling shareholders  Balance at the end of the year  171 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP m m 14.
OTHER RESERVES Share-based payment reserve Opening balance Forfeitable Share Plan Mpilo trusts Al Noor share option scheme The balance of the share-based payment reserve comprise: Executive share option scheme Forfeitable share plan Al Noor share option scheme Mpilo trusts Employee share trusts Strategic South African black partners During the financial year ending 31 March 2006, the difference between the fair value of the equity instruments issued in a BEE transaction and the fair value of the cash and other assets received was recognised as an expense grant date and this corresponding increase in equity was booked.
Foreign currency translation reserve Opening balance  Currency translation dierences Hedging reserve Opening balance Fair value adjustments of cash ow hedges, net of tax Recycling of fair value adjustments of derecognised cash ow hedge, net of tax 15.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Opening balance Transactions with non-controlling shareholders  Dividends to non-controlling interests Share of total comprehensive income Share of profit  Currency translation dierences Non-controlling interests in hospital activities 172 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS continued Details of non-wholly-owned subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests: profit allocated to nonOwnership interest controlling interests held by NCI m m Mediclinic Pty Ltd  Curamed Holdings Pty Ltd Group    Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups subsidiaries that has material non-controlling interests is set out below.
The summarised financial information below represents amounts before inter-group eliminations.
The comparatives are for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Place of business: South Africa Mediclinic Pty Ltd Current assets Non-current assets Current liabilities Non-current liabilities Equity attributable to owners of the Company Non-controlling interests Revenue profit for the year  Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income  Total comprehensive income allocated to non-controlling interests Dividends paid to non-controlling interests Net cash inow from operating activities Net cash inow outow from investing activities Net cash inow outow from nancing activities Net cash outow Curamed Holdings Pty Ltd group Current assets  Non-current assets  Current liabilities Non-current liabilities Equity attributable to owners of the Company  Non-controlling interests Revenue profit for the year Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income Total comprehensive income allocated to non-controlling interests Dividends paid to non-controlling interests Net cash inow from operating activities Net cash outow from investing activities  Net cash outow from nancing activities Net cash inow 173 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP m m 16.
BORROWINGS Secured long-term bank loans Long-term portion  Short-term portion Capitalised nancing costs long-term The long-term bank loan bears interest at the 3 month Jibar variable rate plus a margin of 1.51% 2015: 1.51% compounded quarterly, and is repayable on 2 June 2019.
Preference shares Long-term portion Short-term portion Dividends are payable monthly at a rate of 69% of prime overdraft rate.
5m shares must be redeemed on 1 September 2016 and 1 September 2017 and the balance of 85m on 2 June 2019.
Secured long-term bank loan Long-term portion Short-term portion The long-term bank loan bears interest at the 3 month Jibar variable rate plus a margin of 1.06% 2015: 1.06% compounded.
5m must be redeemed on 1 September 2016 and the balance of 5m on 8 October 2017.
Secured long-term bank loan Long-term portion Short-term portion The long-term bank loan bears interest at the 3 month Jibar variable rate plus a margin of 1.51% 2015: 1.31% compounded quarterly, and is repayable on 2 June 2019.
Secured long-term bank loans Long-term portion Short-term portion These loans bear interest at variable rates linked to the prime overdraft rate and are repayable in periods ranging between one and twelve years.
Property, equipment and vehicles with a book value of 12m 2015: 15m are encumbered as security for these loans.
Net trade receivables of 1m 2015: 1m has also been ceded as security for these loans.
Borrowings in Southern African operations Property and equipment with a book value of 160m 2015: 150m, cash and cash equivalents of 12m 2015: 10m and trade receivables of 41m 2015: 46m have been ceded as security for these borrowings.
BORROWINGS continued Secured long-term bank loans  Long-term portion Short-term portion  Capitalised nancing costs long-term This loan bears interest at variable rates linked to the 3M Libor and a margin of 2.0% 2015: 2.75% and is amortising until 31 March 2020 2015: June 2017.
Properties with a book value of 100m 2015: 83m are encumbered as security for this loan.
Borrowings in Middle East operations  Secured long-term bank loans Long-term portion Short-term portion  Capitalised nancing costs long-term These loans bear interest at a variable rate linked to the 3M Libor plus 1.5% and 2.85% 2015: 3M Libor plus 2.0% and 3.5% and is repayable by July 2020.
The loan is secured by: Swiss properties with a book value of 2 248m 2015: 2 161m : and Swiss bank accounts with a book value of 128m 2015: 138m.
Listed bonds Long-term portion Short-term portion The listed bonds consist of CHF145m 1.625% and CHF90m 2.0% Swiss franc bonds.
The bonds are repayable on 25 February 2021 and 25 February 2025 respectively.
Secured long-term finance Long-term portion Short-term portion These loans bear interest at interest rates ranging between 3% and 12% 2015: 3% and 12% and are repayable in equal monthly payments in periods ranging from one to seven years.
Equipment with a book value of 1m 2015: 1m is encumbered as security for these loans.
Borrowings in Swiss operations Secured long-term bank loans Long-term portion Short-term portion Capitalised nancing costs long-term This loan bears interest at variable rates linked to Libor with a minimum base rate of 1% plus 3.75%.
The facility is secured in favour of lenders over the shares in Mediclinic International Limited and of Mediclinic CHF Finco Limited, Mediclinic Middle East Holdings Limited and Mediclinic Holdings Netherlands B. V. Borrowings in the United Kingdom Total borrowings Short-term portion transferred to current liabilities  Noncurrent borrowings 175 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP m m 17.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Statement of financial position obligations for: Swiss pension benefit obligation South African post-retirement medical benefit obligation UAE end of service benefit obligation Total retirement benefit obligations Short-term portion of retirement benefit obligations Noncurrent retirement benefit obligations Total amount charged to the income statement: Swiss pension benefit obligation  South African post-retirement medical benefit obligation UAE end of service benefit obligation  Total amount charged credit to other comprehensive income: Swiss pension benefit obligation South African post-retirement medical benefit obligation UAE end of service benefit obligation None of the directors of Mediclinic International plc participate in Swiss pension benets or the UAE end of service benefit.
The two executive directors of Mediclinic International plc participate in the South African post-retirement medical benefit obligation.
"a Swiss pension benefit obligation The Groups Swiss operations has five 2015: five dened benefit pension plans, namely: Pensionskasse Hirslanden cash balance plan Vorsorgestiftung VSAO cash balance plan Association for Swiss Assistant and Senior Doctors Radiotherapie Hirslanden AG: Pension fund at foundation ""pro"" cash balance plan Clinique La Colline SA: Pension fund at banque cantonal vaudois cash balance plan Swissana Clinic AG: Pension fund at foundation ""Nest"" cash balance plan GROUP m m Statement of financial position Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are as follows: Present value of funded obligations Fair value of plan assets  Net pension liability 176 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GROUP m m 17."
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued a Swiss pension benefit obligation continued The movement in the dened benefit obligation over the period is as follows: Opening balance Current service cost Interest cost Employee contributions Benets paid Actuarial loss experience Actuarial demographical loss assumption Actuarial financial loss assumption Acquisition Exchange dierences  Balance at end of year The movement of the fair value of plan assets over the period is as follows: Opening balance Employer contributions  Plan participants contributions Benets paid from fund Interest income on plan assets Return on plan assets greater less than discount rate Acquisition Administration cost paid Exchange dierences  Balance at end of year  Statement of financial position Opening net liability Expense as above  Contributions paid by employer  Exchange dierences Actuarial loss recognised in equity Acquisitions Closing net liability Statement of comprehensive income Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows: Actuarial loss experience Actuarial loss due to liability assumption changes Return on plan assets greater less than discount rate Total comprehensive income 177 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP m m 17.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued a Swiss pension benefit obligation continued Income statement Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Current service cost Past service cost Interest on liability Interest on plan assets Administration cost paid Settlement gain Total expense  Actual return on plan assets Principal actuarial assumptions on statement of financial position Discount rate Future salary increases Future pension increases Ination rate Number of plan members Active members Pensioners  Experience adjustment On plan liabilities: loss On plan assets: gain loss 178 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued a Swiss pension benefit obligation continued Asset allocation m m Quoted investments Fixed income investments  Equity investments  Real estate Other Non-quoted investments Fixed income investments   Equity investments Real estate  Other  Impact on dened benefit obligation Base Change in assumption assumption Increase Decrease Discount rate Salary growth rate Pension growth rate Decrease Increase by by year Change in year in in assumpassumption assumption tion year in expected life time of plan parLife expectancy mortality ticipant The above sensitivity analysis are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the dened benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method present value of the dened benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credited method at the end of the reporting period has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of financial position.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous period.
Expected employer contributions to be paid to the pension plans for the year ended 31 March 2017 are 25m.
179 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 17.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued a Swiss pension benefit obligation continued The weighted average duration of the dened benefit obligation is 14.3 years 2015: 13.4 years.
The maturity prole of the dened benefit obligation is as follows: year years years Total m m m m 31 March 2016 Dened benefit obligation  31 March 2015 Dened benefit obligation The Swiss dened benefit pension plans exposes the Group to some actuarial and investment risks.
The pension plans provides employees of the Hirslanden Group with post-employment, death-in-service and disability benets in accordance with the Federal Law on Occupational Old-age.
It is separate legal entities from the Hirslanden Group.
The funds governing bodies consists of an equal number of employer and employee representatives.
The benets of the pension plans are substantially higher than the legal minimum.
The employees and employers contributions is based on their insured salary and range from 1.25% to 15.5% for Pensionskasse Hirslanden and 14% for VSAO.
If an employee leaves the Hirslanden Group or the pension plans before reaching retirement age, legally they are to transfer the vested benets to a new pension plan.
On retirement, the participant may decide to withdraw the benets as an annuity or a lump-sum.
As per the pension law in Switzerland, benets provided by the pension funds are nanced through annual contributions.
If insucient investment returns or actuarial losses lead to a funding gap, the governing body is legally obliged to take actions to close this gap within 5 years to a maximum of 7 years.
Such actions may include additional contributions by the respective Group companies and the beneciaries.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued b South African post-retirement medical benefit obligation The Groups Southern African operations have a post-retirement medical benefit obligation for employees who joined before 1 July 2012.
The Group accounts for actuarially determined future medical benets and provide for the expected liability in the statement of financial position.
During the last valuation on 31 March 2016 a 9.25% 2015: 7.1% medical ination cost and a 10.25% 2015: 8.1% interest rate were assumed.
The average retirement age was set at 63 years 2015: 63 years.
GROUP m m The assumed rates of mortality are as follows: During employment: SA 85 90 tables of mortality Post-employment: PA 90 tables Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are as follows: Opening balance Amounts recognised in the income statement Current service cost Interest cost Contributions Exchange dierences Actuarial gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income Present value of unfunded obligations The eect of a 1% movement in the assumed health cost trend rate is as follows: Increase Decrease Dened benefit obligation Aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost Historical information: The present value of the Groups post-retirement medical benets at 31 March 2014 was 21m, 31 March 2013: 22m and 31 March 2012: 28m.
Expected employer contributions to be paid to the post-retirement medical benefit liability for the year ended 31 March 2017 are 0.5m.
181 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 17.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued c UAE end of service benefit obligation In terms of UAE labour law, employees are entitled to severance pay at the end of employment.
Severance pay is calculated as follows: First 5 years of service: between 7 and 30 days wage per year of service and thereafter 30 days per additional year.
GROUP m m The employee benefit was actuarially determined: The following are the principle actuarial assumptions: Discount rate Future salary increases  Average retirement age years years Annual turnover rate m m Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are as follows: Opening balance Amounts recognised in the income statement Current service cost  Interest cost Contributions Business combinations Exchange dierences Actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income Present value of unfunded obligations Current portion of retirement benefit obligations Non-current retirement benefit obligations  The eect of a 1% movement in the assumed health cost trend rate is as follows: Increase Decrease Dened benefit obligation Aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost Expected employer contributions to be paid to the post-retirement medical benefit liability for the year ended 31 March 2017 are 4m.
182 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Employee Legal cases benets and other Tari risks Total m m m m 18.
PROVISIONS Year ended 31 March 2015 Opening balance Charged to the income statement Utilised during the year Unused amounts reversed Exchange dierences Balance at the end of the year At 31 March 2015 Current Non-current Year ended 31 March 2016 Opening balance  Charged to the income statement Utilised during the year Unused amounts reversed Exchange dierences Balance at the end of the year  At 31 March 2016 Current Non-current   a Employee benets This provision is for benets granted to employees for long service.
b Legal cases and other This provision relates to third-party excess payments for malpractice claims which are not covered by insurance and other costs for legal claims.
c Tari risks This provision relates to compulsory health insurance tari risks in Switzerland and other tari disputes at some of the Groups Swiss hospitals.
m m Provisions are expected to be payable during the following financial years: Within 1 year After one year but not more than five years More than five years  183 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP GROUP m m m m 19.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Interest rate swaps cash ow hedges Non-current Current Subtotal Forward exchange contracts Call option  Eective interest rate swaps In order to hedge specic exposures in the interest rate repricing prole of existing borrowings, the Group uses interest rate derivatives to generate the desired interest prole.
At 31 March 2016, the Group had eight eective interest rate swap contracts 31 March 2015: six.
The value of borrowings hedged by the interest rate derivatives and the rates applicable to these contracts are as follows: Fair value gain loss Borrowings Fixed for the hedged interest Interest year m payable receivable m 31 March 2015 1 to 3 years month Jibar 3 to 5 years month Jibar 31 March 2016 1 to 3 years  month Jibar 3 to 5 years   month Jibar The interest rate swap agreement reset every 3 months on 1 June, 1 September, 1 December and 1 March with a final reset on 1 September 2017 and 1 March 2019.
There is no ineffective portion recognised in the profit and loss that arises from the cash flow hedges.
The interest rate swap agreements reset every 3 months on 1 June, 1 September, 1 December and 1 March with a final reset on 3 June 2019.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Ineective interest rate swaps Due to the current negative interest rates in Switzerland, the hedge relationship in respect of the 3 month Swiss Libor interest rate swaps became ineective since the interest on the borrowings is capped at a rate of 0% but is fully considered as interest payments on the swap.
Hedge accounting discontinued from the previous reporting period when hedge eectiveness could be demonstrated, i. e. from 1 October 2014.
GROUP m m Opening balance Fair value adjustments through other comprehensive income Fair value adjustments booked through profit and loss finance cost Exchange dierences Balance at the end of the period Nominal Fixed Interest value interest receivable  March m payable m month and Swiss 3 years and beyond Libor 31 March 2016  month and Swiss Beyond 2 years  Libor The interest rate swap agreement resets every 3 months on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December with a final reset on 31 March 2018 and termination date on 30 June 2018.
Based on the degree to which the fair values are observable, the interest rate swaps and the forward contracts are grouped as Level 2.
Call option As per an Al Noor shareholders agreement, Al Noor Medical Company, Al Noor Hospital and Al Noor Pharmacy LLC has an option to buy 25% minority shares with eect from 1 January 2016.
Fair value of this option has been recognised as a derivative asset as at 31 March 2016.
GROUP m m Forward contracts Loss recognised in the income statement Based on the degree to which the fair values are observable, the interest rate swaps and the forward contracts are Grouped as Level 2.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade payables Other payables and accrued expenses Social insurance and accrued leave pay Value added tax  185 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP m m 21.
EXPENSES BY NATURE Fees paid to the Groups auditors for the following services: Audit of the parent Company and consolidated financial statements Audit Company subsidiaries Audit services  Audit-related services Tax advice Tax compliance  All other services  Cost of inventories Depreciation buildings equipment furniture and vehicles Employee benefit expenses  Wages and salaries Retirement benefit costs dened contribution plans Retirement benefit costs dened benefit obligations note 17  Share-based payment expense note 14 Impairment of property Increase in impairment provision for receivables note 11 Maintenance costs Managerial and administration fees Operating leases buildings  equipment Amortisation of intangible assets Other expenses General expenses profit on disposal of property, equipment and vehicles Classied as: Cost of sales Administration and other operating expenses Depreciation and amortisation is classied as: Cost of sales Administration and other operating expenses  Number Number Number of employees  GROUP m m 22.
OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES Losses gains on foreign currency forward contracts Gain on disposal of subsidiary Discount on loan repayment Insurance proceeds 186 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GROUP Restated m m 23.
FINANCE COST Interest expense Interest rate swaps Amortisation of capitalised nancing costs Fair value gains losses on ineective cash ow hedges Preference share dividend Less: amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 24.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE Current tax Current year Previous year Deferred tax note 9  Taxation per income statement Composition UK tax Foreign tax Reconciliation of rate of taxation: UK statutory rate of taxation Adjusted for: Capital gains taxed at dierent rates Non-taxable income  Non-deductible expenses Non-controlling interests share of profit before tax  Eect of dierent tax rates  Income tax rate changes Non-recognition of tax losses in current year Recognition of tax losses relating to prior years Prior year adjustment Eective tax rate Non-deductible expenses in the current year were impacted by: Transaction costs in relation to the Al Noor transaction was not deductible for tax purposes as these costs are capital of nature.
The tax effect of this amounted 10m which resulted in an increase in the effective tax rate.
Non-deductible accelerated IFRS 2 charges increased the tax charge by 3m.
In the prior year, Swiss income tax liabilities was released in respect of historical uncertain tax positions after settlement with tax authorities.
This reduced the tax charge by 43m.
The effect of different tax rates is mainly because of profit earned from South Africa which is subject to income tax rate of 28%, reduced by profit earned from the UAE which is not subject to income tax.
The statutory income tax rate in the UK reduced from 21% to 20% since 1 April 2015.
The income tax liability includes an amount of approximately 8m 2015: 7m relating to unresolved tax matters.
The range of possible outcomes relating to this liability is not considered to be material.
187 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP Restated Pence Pence 25.
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE Basic Diluted GROUP Restated Number of shares reconciliation Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share Number of ordinary shares in issue at the beginning of the year  Al Noor Hospitals Group plc shares prior to reverse acquisition Al Noor Hospitals Group plc shares repurchased Weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year August 2015 Weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year February 2016   Weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year June 2014 Adjustment for equity raising Private placement June 2014 IAS 33 para 26 Adjustment for equity raising Rights Oer August 2015 IAS 33 para 26  Weighted average number of treasury shares BEE shareholder Mpilo Trusts  Forfeitable Share Plan Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for diluted earnings per share Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue Weighted average number of treasury shares held in terms of the BEE initiative not yet released from treasury stock  BEE shareholder Mpilo Trusts Forfeitable Share Plan The prior year number of shares have been converted using the Mediclinic scheme of arrangement conversion ratio of 0.625 Mediclinic International plc shares for each Mediclinic International Limited share held.
Represents the equivalent weighted average number of shares for which no value has been received from the BEE shareholder Mpilo Investment Holdings 2 RF Pty Ltd in terms of the Groups black ownership initiative.
To date, no value was received for an equivalent of 521 141 2015: 1 158 198 shares issued to the strategic black partner.
Mpilo Investment Holdings 1 RF Pty Ltd and Mpilo Investment Holdings 2 RF Pty Ltd are structured entities that are not consolidated due to the Group not having control.
These companies are investment holding companies and were incorporated as part of the Mediclinic BEE transaction.
The companies hold ordinary shares in Mediclinic International plc 2015: Mediclinic International Limited on which it receives dividends.
These dividends are used to repay the outstanding debt of the companies.
The outstanding debt referred to is provided by third parties with no recourse to the Group.
The shares were issued at a price lower than the fair value of the shares before the equity capital raised in June 2014 and Rights Offer in August 2015.
As a result, the weighted average number of shares was adjusted in accordance with IAS 33 paragraph 26.
The 2015 number of shares have been adjusted with the exchange ratio of 0.625 1 Mediclinic International Limited share was exchanged for 0.625 AL Noor Hospitals Group plc share in terms of the Mediclinic scheme of arrangement.
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE continued Headline earnings per ordinary share The Group is required to calculate headline earnings per share HEPS in accordance with the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements, determined by reference to the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants circular 02 2013 Revised Headline Earnings.
The table below sets out a reconciliation of basic EPS and HEPS in accordance with that circular.
Disclosure of HEPS is not a requirement of IFRS, but it is a commonly used measure of earnings in South Africa.
The table below reconciles the profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent to headline earnings and summarises the calculation of basic HEPS: GROUP Restated m m profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent Adjustments Impairment of property Insurance proceeds Gain on disposal of subsidiary profit on disposal of property, equipment and vehicles Headline earnings Headline earnings per share pence Diluted headline earnings per share pence 26.
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Components of other comprehensive income Currency translation dierences Fair value adjustment cash ow hedges Actuarial gains and losses Other comprehensive income, net of tax  Attributable Tax charge Attributto equity attributable able to nonholders of to equity controlling the Company holders of interest before tax the Company after tax Total Year ended  March m m m m Currency translation dierences Recycling of fair value adjustments of derecognised cash ow hedge Fair value adjustment cash ow hedges Actuarial gains and losses Other comprehensive income Year ended 31 March 2016 Currency translation dierences Recycling of fair value adjustments of derecognised cash ow hedge Fair value adjustment cash ow hedges Actuarial gains and losses  Other comprehensive income    189 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP Restated m m 27.
CASH FLOW INFORMATION 27.1 Reconciliation of profit before taxation to cash generated from operations profit before taxation Adjustments for: Finance cost net Share of net profit of equity accounted investments Other gains and losses Share-based payment Depreciation and amortisation  Impairment losses Movement in provisions Movement in retirement benefit obligations profit on disposal of property, equipment and vehicles Operating income before changes in working capital Working capital changes Increase in inventories Increase in trade and other receivables Increase in trade and other payables  27.2 Interest paid Finance cost per income statement Renancing costs shown as nancing activities Non-cash items Amortisation of capitalised nancing fees Other non-cash ow finance expenses Fair value gains losses on ineective cash ow hedges 27.3 Tax paid Liability at the beginning of the period Exchange dierences Provision for the period  Liability at the end of the period 27.4 Investment to maintain operations Property, equipment and vehicles purchased  Intangible assets purchased Loans to subsidiaries 27.5 Investment to expand operations Property, equipment and vehicles purchased 27.6 Proceeds on disposal of property, equipment and vehicles Book value of property, equipment and vehicles sold profit per income statement Sale price receivable Exchange dierences 190 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GROUP Restated m m 27.
CASH FLOW INFORMATION continued 27.7 Distributions paid to shareholders Dividends declared and paid during the period Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period: In addition to the above dividends, following the reporting date, the directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of 5.24 pence per ordinary share.
The aggregate amount of the proposed dividend expected to be paid on 25 July 2016 from retained earnings.
As at 31 March 2016, no liability has been recognised.
27.8 Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the statement of cash ows, cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include: Cash and cash equivalents  Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts are denominated in the following currencies: South African rand Swiss franc  UAE dirham Euro  The counterparties have a minimum Baa2 credit rating by Moodys.
The facility agreement of the Swiss subsidiary restricts the distribution of cash.
The counterparties have a minimum A2 credit rating by Moodys and a minimum A credit rating by Standard & Poors.
The counterparties have a minimum BBB credit rating.
Cash and cash equivalents denominated in South African rands amounting to 12m 31 March 2015: 10m has been ceded as security for borrowings see note 16.
GROUP Restated Cash ow Cash ow on acquision acquisition tion m m 28. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Al Noor Hospitals Group plc Clinique La Colline Swissana Clinic AG Meggen 191 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 28. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Al Noor Hospitals Group plc On 15 February 2016, Mediclinic completed the combination between Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited.
The combination of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International became unconditional on 15 February 2016.
The directors recognise the strong strategic merit in the transaction, with an excellent strategic t between the operations in the UAE and the creation of a leading international private healthcare operator with a well-balanced geographic prole.
The combination is classied as a reverse take-over.
"Following implementation of the Combination, it is expected that Al Noor, as enlarged by the acquisition of Mediclinic the ""Enlarged Group"", will be one of the worlds leading international private healthcare groups, with deep operational expertise and a well-balanced geographic prole in Southern Africa, Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates and in the UK through a minority stake in Spire."
The goodwill of 1 189m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the earnings potential of the established Al Noor business with a geographical footprint in Abu Dhabi.
Goodwill represents benets from the geographic footprint and expansion, synergies from a combined business in the UAE and a skilled workforce assembled at the operating facilities.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The fair value exercise over the opening balance sheet of Al Noor remains provisional at 31 March 2016 as permitted by IFRS 3.
Since the Group is in discussions with UAE medical insurance funders and other third parties about conforming Al Noors commercial practices with the rest of the Group, there is still a degree of uncertainty about the fair value of certain acquired assets and liabilities.
This is expected to be nalised during the next year.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Al Noor Hospital Group and the provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
GROUP m Purchase consideration at 15 February 2016 Special dividend 3.28 per share  Tender oer limited to 1bn with special dividend, 8.32 per share  Value of share element Total consideration transferred  Recognised amounts of identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed provisional purchase price allocation Assets Property, equipment and vehicles Intangible assets Non-current receivable Inventories Trade and other receivables Derivative financial instruments Investment in money market funds Cash and cash equivalents Total assets Liabilities Retirement benefit obligations Trade and other payables Total liabilities Total identiable net assets at fair value Non-controlling interest Goodwill Total  The value of the share element represents the equivalent fair value of the shares at date of acquisition that the acquirer Mediclinic International Limited would have issued to the shareholders of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc if equity instruments of the acquirer had to be issued.
192 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 28. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Acquisition-related costs of 41m have been charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is 111m and includes trade receivables with a fair value of 95m.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due is 121m, of which 95m is expected to be collectible.
From the date of acquisition, Al Noor Hospitals Group has contributed 50m of revenue and 4m to the net profit before tax of the Group.
If the business combination had taken place at the beginning of the financial year, revenue from continuing operations would have been 333m and the net profit for the Group would have been 56m.
GROUP m Analysis of cash ow on acquisition Transaction costs incurred in reverse acquisition Net cash acquired with the subsidiary Net cash ow on acquisition Clinique La Colline On 25 June 2014, Hirslanden acquired a 100% interest in the operating company of Clinique la Colline.
Clinique La Colline is a private hospital based in Geneva, Switzerland.
The goodwill of 62m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the earnings potential of the business.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Clinique La Colline Group, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
GROUP Restated m Consideration at 25 June 2014 Cash Total consideration transferred Recognised amounts of identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Assets Property, equipment and vehicles Intangible assets Inventories Trade and other receivables Cash and cash equivalents Total assets Liabilities Borrowings Provisions Pension liability Deferred tax liabilities Trade and other payables Total liabilities Total identiable net assets at fair value Goodwill Total 193 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 28. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Acquisition-related costs of 1m have been charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is 10m and includes trade receivables with a fair value of 9m.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due is 10m, of which nil is expected to be uncollectible.
From the date of acquisition, Clinique la Colline has contributed 32m of revenue and 6m to the net profit of the Group.
If the business combination had taken place at the beginning of the prior year, revenue from continuing operations would have been 42m and the net profit for the Group would have been 7m.
GROUP Restated m Analysis of cash ow on acquisition Total consideration transferred Net cash acquired with the subsidiary Net cash ow on acquisition Swissana Clinic AG Meggen On 8 August 2014, Hirslanden acquired a 100% interest in the operating company of Swissana Clinic Meggen.
Swissana Clinic Meggen is a private hospital based in Meggen, Switzerland.
The goodwill of 6m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the earnings potential of the business.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Swissana Clinic AG Meggen, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
GROUP Restated m Consideration at 8 August 2014 Cash Total consideration transferred Recognised amounts of identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Assets Property, equipment and vehicles Trade and other receivables Total assets Liabilities Borrowings Pension liability Trade and other payables Total liabilities Total identiable net assets at fair value Goodwill Total 194 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 28. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Acquisition-related costs of nil have been charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is 1m and includes trade receivables with a fair value of 1m.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due is 1m, of which nil is expected to be uncollectible.
From the date of acquisition, Swissana Clinic Meggen has contributed 4m of revenue and nil to the net profit of the Group.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the prior year, revenue from continuing operations would have been 6m and the net profit for the Group would have been nil.
GROUP Restated m Analysis of cash ow on acquisition Total consideration transferred Net cash acquired with the subsidiary Net cash ow on acquisition GROUP Cash ow on acquisition m 29.
CASH FLOW ON ACQUISITION OF INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE Spire Healthcare Group plc On 24 August 2015, the Group acquired 119 923 335 shares in Spire Healthcare Group plc, the equivalent to a 29.9% shareholding.
Spire Healthcare Group plc is a leading private healthcare group in the UK with a national network of 39 hospitals across the United Kingdom.
The investment in Spire provides Mediclinic with a further opportunity to diversify into an attractive new geography with a strong currency.
The Group and Spire will benefit from collaboration, with the potential to unlock procurement benets and knowledge transfer.
On 22 June 2015, Remgro through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Remgro Jersey Ltd subsequently renamed to Mediclinic Jersey Ltd, acquired 119 923 335 Spire shares equivalent to a 29.9% shareholding.
The purchase of the equity investment were negotiated jointly by Mediclinic and Remgro with the seller.
Mediclinic acquired Remgros indirect shareholding in Spire for an amount equal to the aggregate of the purchase price paid by Remgro Jersey Ltd, transaction costs and funding costs, totalling approximately 446m.
The Spire acquisition was eected through a series of transactions which ultimately resulted in Mediclinic, through a wholly-owned subsidiary Mediclinic Jersey Limited directly holding the 29.9% interest in Spire.
Purchase consideration paid, comprise of the following: Purchase price paid to Remgro refer to note 33  Transaction cost Total cost of equity investment Less cash acquired in subsidiary Mediclinic Jersey Ltd Cash ow on acquisition of investment in associate 195 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP Restated m 30.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY On 19 February 2015, the Group disposed Med-Immo La Colline SA.
Consideration received at 19 February 2015 Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents Analysis of assets and liabilities over which control was lost Assets Property, equipment and vehicles Cash and cash equivalents Total assets Liabilities Borrowings Total liabilities Net assets disposed of Gain on disposal of subsidiary Consideration received Net assets disposed of Gain on disposal Total cash ow on disposal of subsidiary Less: cash and cash equivalents balanced disposed of Net cash ow on disposal GROUP Restated m m 31.
COMMITMENTS Capital commitments Incomplete capital expenditure contracts Southern Africa Switzerland Middle East Capital expenses authorised by the Board of Directors but not yet contracted Southern Africa Switzerland Middle East  These commitments will be nanced from Group and borrowed funds.
Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into various operating lease agreements on premises and equipment.
The future non-cancellable minimum lease rentals are payable during the following financial years: Within 1 year 1 to 5 years  Beyond 5 years  196 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GROUP Restated m m 31.
COMMITMENTS continued Income guarantees As part of the expansion of network of specialist institutes in Switzerland and centres of expertise the Group has agreed to guarantee a minimum net income to these specialists for a start-up period of three to five years.
Payments under such guarantees become due, if the net income from the collaboration does not meet the amounts guaranteed.
There were no payments under the above mentioned income guarantees in the reporting period as the net income individually generated met or exceeded the amounts guaranteed.
Total of net income guaranteed: April 2015 to March 2016 April 2016 to March 2017  April 2017 to March 2018 April 2018 to March 2019 Contingent liabilities Litigation The Group is not aware of any pending legal claims that are not covered by the Groups extensive insurance programmes.
SEGMENTAL REPORT The reportable operating segments are identied as follows: Mediclinic Southern Africa, Mediclinic Switzerland, Mediclinic Middle East, United Kingdom and an additional reporting segment is shown for Corporate.
The comparatives have been changed to conform with current presentation.
United Kingdom and Corporate are shown as operating segments.
Southern SwitzerMiddle United Year ended Africa land East Kingdom Corporate Total 31 March 2016 m m m m m m Revenue   EBITDA  EBITDA before management fee   Management fees included in EBITDA Other gains and losses Depreciation and amortisation   Operating profit Income from associate Finance income Finance cost Taxation  Segment result  At 31 March 2016 Investments in associates Investments in joint venture   Capital expenditure  Total segment assets  Segment liabilities    197 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 32.
SEGMENTAL REPORT continued Restated Restated Restated Restated Southern SwitzerMiddle United Restated Restated Year ended Africa land East Kingdom Corporate Total 31 March 2015 m m m m m m Revenue EBITDA EBITDA before management fee Management fees included in EBITDA Other gains and losses Depreciation and amortisation Operating profit Income from associate Income from joint venture Finance income Finance cost Taxation Segment result At 31 March 2015 Investments in associates Investments in joint venture Capital expenditure Total segment assets Segment liabilities 198 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 32.
SEGMENTAL REPORT continued Reconciliation of segment result, assets and liabilities Segment result m m Total profit from reportable segments  Elimination of intersegment loan interest profit for the year Liabilities Total liabilities from reportable segments  Elimination of intersegment loan The total non-current assets, excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets per geographical location, are: Southern Africa  Middle East Switzerland  United Kingdom na ENTITY-WIDE DISCLOSURES Revenue From UK From foreign countries Revenues from external customers are primarily from hospital services.
The total non-current assets, excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets From UK From foreign countries  199 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP Restated m m 33.
RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS Remgro Limited owns, through various subsidiaries Remgro Healthcare Holdings Pty Ltd, Remgro Health Limited and Remgro Jersey GBP Limited 44.56% 2015: 41.35% of the Companys issued share capital.
The following transactions were carried out with related third parties: i Transactions with shareholders Share subscription Remgro Group and its subsidiaries In addition to the share subscription February 2016, Remgro also participated in the Rights Oer August 2015.
Remgro Management Services Limited subsidiary of Remgro Limited Managerial and administration fees Internal audit services Management fee relating to the acquisition of equity investment Spire Healthcare Group plc Underwriting fees in respect of the rights oer Balance due to V&R Management Services AG subsidiary of Remgro Limited Administration fees Acquisition of equity investment Spire Healthcare Group plc During the period under review, Mediclinic International Limited and Remgro Limited jointly negotiated the terms of the transaction to acquire an equity investment in Spire Healthcare Group plc with the seller.
Refer to note 29 for additional information.
ii Key management compensation Key management includes the directors executive and non-executive and members of the Executive Committee.
Salaries and other short-term benets Short-term benets Post-employment benets Share-based payment iii Transactions with associates Zentrallabor Zrich ZLZ Fees earned Purchases Spire Healthcare Group plc Non-executive director fee na Amount is less than 0.5m.
STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET EFFECTIVE Certain new and revised IFRSs have been issued but are not yet effective for the Groups 2016 financial year.
The Group has not early adopted the new and revised IFRSs that are not yet effective.
New and revised IFRSs affecting mainly presentation and disclosure: IFRS 9: Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 The new standard improves and simplifies the approach for classification and measurement of financial assets compared with the requirements of IAS 39.
IFRS 9 applies a consistent approach to classifying financial assets and replaces the numerous categories of financial assets in IAS 39, each of which had its own classification criteria.
IFRS 9 also results in one impairment method, replacing the numerous impairment methods in IAS 39 that arise from the different classification categories.
IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 The new standard requires companies to recognise revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers, that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The new standard will also result in enhanced disclosures about revenue, and provides guidance for transactions that were not previously addressed comprehensively and improve guidance for multiple-element arrangements.
IFRS 16: Leases 1 January 2019 The new standard addresses the definition of a lease, recognition and measurement of leases and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the leasing activities of both lessees and lessors.
A key change arising from IFRS 16 is that most operating leases will be accounted for on balance sheet for lessees.
The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases, and related interpretations.
The amendments to following standards will have no material effect on the financial statements: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2016 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2016 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities 1 January 2014 & 1 January 2016 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 1 January 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment 1 January 2016 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2016 IAS 36 Impairment of Assets 1 January 2016 IAS 38 Intangible Assets 1 January 2016 There are numerous other amendments to existing standards relating to the Annual Improvements process 2012-14 cycle 1 January 2016 that are not yet effective for the Company.
Each of these has been assessed, and will not have a material impact on the financial statements.
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE At the time the financial statements were authorised for issue, the following events had taken place which have not been recognised as at 31 March 2016: Since year-end, the following material events have taken place: During May 2016 the Group obtained additional bank facilities in the amount of R1.2 billion approximately 54m.
The loans will carry interest at 3 month Jibar plus a margin of 1.69% and is fully repayable in June 2019.
"201 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ANNEXURE INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES SUBSIDIARIES Interest in capital Country of incorporation and place of Company business Principal activities Al Noor Holdings Cayman Limited Intermediary Holding ""ANH Cayman"" Cayman Islands Company Intermediary Holding ANMC Management Limited Company and manager of ""ANMC Management"" Cayman Islands Al Noor Golden Mediclinic CHF Finco Limited previously held indirectly through Mediclinic Investments Pty Ltd Jersey Treasury Mediclinic Holdings Netherlands B. V previously held indirectly through Mediclinic Europe Intermediary Holding Pty Ltd Netherlands Company Intermediary Holding Mediclinic International Limited South Africa Company na Mediclinic Middle East Holdings Limited previously held indirectly through Mediclinic Middle East Intermediary Holding Investment Holdings Pty Ltd Jersey Company Group Indirectly held through Mediclinic CHF Finco Limited Intermediary Holding Mediclinic Jersey Limited Jersey Company na Indirectly held through Mediclinic International Limited Intermediary Holding Mediclinic Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Company Indirectly held through Mediclinic Investments Pty Ltd Business Ventures Investments Dormant deregistration in No 1871 Pty Ltd Jersey process na Mediclinic Europe Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant Mediclinic Group Services Provision of Group services Pty Ltd South Africa within the Mediclinic Group Mediclinic Middle East Investment Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant Mediclinic Southern Africa Intermediary Holding Pty Ltd South Africa Company Indirectly held through Mediclinic Group Services Pty Ltd Mediclinic Management Services Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant Indirectly held through Mediclinic Southern Africa Pty Ltd Intermediary Holding Curamed Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Company Intermediary Holding ER24 Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Company Hedrapix Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant Howick Private Hospital Holdings Intermediary Holding Pty Ltd South Africa Company Medical Human Resources Management of Healthcare Pty Ltd South Africa Sta Medical Innovations Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Equipment 202 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUBSIDIARIES Interest in capital Country of incorporation and place of Group business Principal activities Intermediary Holding Mediclinic Pty Ltd ordinary Company and operating shares and Mediclinic Head Company of Mediclinic Oce Hospital Shares South Africa Southern Africa Mediclinic Brits Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Mediclinic Finance Corporation Pty Ltd South Africa Treasury Mediclinic Holdings Namibia Intermediary Holding Pty Ltd Namibia Company Mediclinic Lephalale Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services  Mediclinic Midstream Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Mediclinic Midstream Properties Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant Mediclinic Paarl Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Property Ownership and Mediclinic Properties Pty Ltd South Africa Management Mediclinic Tzaneen Pty Ltd 50% plus 1 share South Africa Healthcare Services Medipark Clinic Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant Newcastle Private Hospital Pty Ltd 50% plus 1 share South Africa Healthcare Services Dormant deregistration in Phodiclinics Pty Ltd South Africa process Provision of debt collection Practice Relief Pty Ltd South Africa and related services Victoria Hospital Pty Ltd 50% plus 1 share South Africa Healthcare Services Indirectly held through Mediclinic Holdings Namibia Pty Ltd Mediclinic Capital Namibia Pty Ltd Namibia Investment Holding Company Mediclinic Otjiwarongo Pty Ltd Namibia Healthcare Services Mediclinic Properties Property Ownership and Swakopmund Pty Ltd Namibia Management Mediclinic Properties Windhoek Property Ownership and Pty Ltd Namibia Management Mediclinic Swakopmund Pty Ltd Namibia Healthcare Services Mediclinic Windhoek Pty Ltd Namibia Healthcare Services 203 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ANNEXURE INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES continued SUBSIDIARIES Interest in capital Country of incorporation and place of Group business Principal activities Hospital Investment Companies Mediclinic Bloemfontein Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Cape Gate Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company  Mediclinic Cape Town Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Constantiaberg Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Durbanville Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Emfuleni Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic George Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Highveld Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Hoogland Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Kathu Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant Mediclinic Klein Karoo Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Legae Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company  Mediclinic Louis Leipoldt Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Milnerton Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Morningside Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Nelspruit Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Panorama Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Pietermaritzburg Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Plettenberg Bay Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Sandton Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Secunda Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Stellenbosch Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Vereeniging Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Vergelegen Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company  Mediclinic Welkom Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company Mediclinic Worcester Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital Investment Company  204 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUBSIDIARIES Interest in capital Country of incorporation and place of Group business Principal activities Indirectly held through Mediclinic Pty Ltd Mediclinic Barberton Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Mediclinic Ermelo Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Mediclinic Hermanus Pty Ltd 50% plus 1 share South Africa Healthcare Services Mediclinic Kimberley Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Mediclinic Limpopo Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Mediclinic Potchefstroom Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Mediclinic Upington Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Indirectly held through Howick Private Hospital Holdings Pty Ltd Howick Private Hospital Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Indirectly held through Mediclinic Limpopo Pty Ltd Mediclinic Limpopo Day Clinic Pty Ltd previously Flashing Day Clinic Investment Star Trading Pty Ltd South Africa Company na Mediclinic Limpopo Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Investment Holding Company Indirectly held through Mediclinic Durbanville Investments Pty Ltd Mediclinic Durbanville Day Clinic Pty Ltd Hedrapth Investments Day Clinic Investment Pty Ltd South Africa Company Indirectly held through Mediclinic Tzaneen Pty Ltd Mediclinic Tzaneen Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Investment Holding Company Indirectly held through Mediclinic Victoria Hospital Pty Ltd Victoria Hospital Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Investment Holding Company Indirectly held through Curamed Holdings Pty Ltd Curamed Hospitals Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Property Ownership and Curamed Properties Pty Ltd South Africa Management Indirectly held through Curamed Hospitals Pty Ltd Mediclinic Thabazimbi Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services Indirectly Held through ER24 Holdings Pty Ltd ER24 EMS Pty Ltd South Africa Emergency Medical Services Intellectual Property Holding ER24 Trademarks Pty Ltd South Africa Company Indirectly held through Mediclinic Holdings Netherlands B. V. Intermediary Holding Mediclinic Luxembourg S.. r. l Luxembourg Company 205 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ANNEXURE INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES continued SUBSIDIARIES Interest in capital Country of incorporation and place of Group business Principal activities Indirectly held through Mediclinic Luxembourg S.. r. l. Intermediary Holding Company and operating Company of the Hirslanden Hirslanden AG Switzerland Group Indirectly held through Hirslanden AG Andreas Klinik AG Cham Switzerland Healthcare Services Clinique La Colline SA Switzerland Healthcare Services Hirslanden Bern AG Switzerland Healthcare Services Hirslanden Clinique La Colline SA Switzerland Healthcare Services Hirslanden Freiburg AG, Ddingen Switzerland Healthcare Services Hirslanden Klinik Aarau AG Switzerland Healthcare Services Hirslanden Klinik am Rosenberg AG Switzerland Healthcare Services Hirslanden Lausanne SA Switzerland Healthcare Services IMRAD SA Switzerland Healthcare Services Klinik am Rosenberg Heiden AG indirectly held through Hirslanden Klinik am Rosenberg AG Switzerland Healthcare Services Klinik Belair AG Switzerland Healthcare Services Klinik Birshof AG Switzerland Healthcare Services Klinik St. Anna AG Switzerland Healthcare Services Klinik Stephanshorn AG Switzerland Healthcare Services Polyclinique La Colline SA Switzerland Healthcare Services Radiotherapie Hirslanden AG Switzerland Healthcare Services Swissana Clinic AG, Meggen Switzerland Healthcare Services Indirectly held through Mediclinic Middle East Holdings Limited Mediclinic International Intermediary Holding Co Limited United Kingdom Company na Emirates Healthcare Holdings British Virgin Intermediary Holding Limited Islands Company Indirectly held through Emirates Healthcare Holdings Limited British Virgin Welcare World Holdings Limited Islands Healthcare Services British Virgin Emirates Healthcare Limited Islands Healthcare Services Indirectly held through Emirates Healthcare Limited American Healthcare British Virgin Management Systems Limited Islands Management Services Emirates Healthcare Estates British Virgin Limited Islands Property Management 4 Mediclinic Al Quasis Clinic LLC UAE Healthcare Services 4 Mediclinic Beach Road LLC UAE Healthcare Services Mediclinic City Hospital FZ LLC UAE Healthcare Services Mediclinic Clinics Investment Intermediary Holding 4 LLC UAE Company 206 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUBSIDIARIES Interest in capital Country of incorporation and place of Group business Principal activities 4 Mediclinic Ibn Battuta Clinic LLC UAE Healthcare Services Mediclinic Medical Stores 4 Co LLC UAE Healthcare Services Mediclinic Middle East Management Services FZ LLC indirectly held through World Healthcare Management Health Systems Limited UAE Services 4 Mediclinic Mirdif Clinic LLC UAE Healthcare Services Mediclinic Creek Hospital FZ LLC UAE Healthcare Services Mediclinic Parkview Hospital LLC UAE Healthcare Services na Mediclinic Welcare Hospital LLC indirectly held through Welcare Hospitals Limited UAE Healthcare Services British Virgin Welcare Hospitals Limited Islands Healthcare Services Welcare World Health Systems British Virgin Limited Islands Healthcare Services Indirectly held through Welcare World Holdings Limited Mediclinic Corniche Medical Centre LLC UAE Healthcare Services Healthcare Services Mediclinic Pharmacy LLC UAE Pharmacy Indirectly held through Al Noor Holdings Cayman Limited ANMC Management Limited Al Noor Golden Commercial Investment LLC ""Al Noor Intermediary Holding 2 Golden"" UAE Company Indirectly held through Al Noor Golden its subsidiaries Al Noor Medical Company Al Noor Hospital Al Noor Intermediary Holding Pharmacy and Al Noor Company and Operating 5 Warehouse LLC ""ANMC"" UAE Company for Al Noor Group Al Hospital Family Care Centre 6 Al Mamoora LLC UAE Healthcare Services Emirates American Company for 7 Medical Services LLC UAE Healthcare Services 8 Rochester Wellness LLC UAE Healthcare Services na 9 Abu Dhabi Medical Services LLC Oman Healthcare Services 9 National Medical Services LLC Oman Healthcare Services na Manchester International Medical Centre LLC previously named 10 British Urology Centre LLC UAE Healthcare Services  Al Madar Medical Centre LLC previously named Al Madar 11 Group LLC UAE Healthcare Services 12 Aspetar Al Madar Reha LLC UAE Healthcare Services na Look Wow One Day Surgery Company LLC UAE Healthcare Services na 13 Manchester Clinic LLC UAE Healthcare Services 207 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ANNEXURE INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES continued SUBSIDIARIES 1 The actual equity interest in the UAE entities are disclosed herein, with the beneficial interest further explained in the notes."
2 ANH Cayman holds 48% and ANMC Management holds 1% in the share capital of Al Noor Golden, collectively 49%.
"The remaining 51% is held by Al Noor Commercial Investment LLC ""ANCI""."
3 The constitutional documents of Al Noor Golden provide that ANH Cayman has the right to receive up to 89% of all distributions by Al Noor Golden, ANMC Management the right to receive 1%, and ANCI the right to receive the remaining 10%.
In terms of the Mudaraba Agreement, ANH Cayman has the right to receive 99% of ANCIs right to receive 10% of the distributions of Al Noor Golden.
Al Noor Cayman and ANMC Management therefore, collectively, have an effective beneficial interest of 99.9% in Al Noor Golden.
3 T he First Arabian Corporation LLC holds 99.33% and Sheikh Mohammed Bin Butti Al Hamed holds the remaining 0.67% in ANCI.
ANCI holds 51% of the issued share capital of Al Noor Golden, and 1% of the issued share capital of ANMC and 51% of the issued share capital of Manchester Clinic LLC Pursuant to a shareholders agreement and a Mudaraba agreement, 99% of ANCIs profit or loss should be distributed to ANC Cayman.
4 In terms of the constitutional and contractual arrangements the Group has full management control and an economic interest of 100% in these UAE entities.
5 ANCI holds the r emaining 1% in the issued share capital of ANMC.
Al Noor Golden has the right to be appointed as the proxy of ANCI, to attend and vote at all shareholder meetings of ANMC.
6 ANMC holds 99% and Al Noor Golden holds 1% in the issued share capital of Al Noor Hospital Family Care Centre AL Mamoora LLC, collectively 100%.
7 ANMC holds 99% and Al Noor Golden holds 1% in the issued share capital of Emirates American Company for Medical Services LLC trading as Gulf International Cancer Centre GICC, collectively 100%.
8 ANCI holds the remaining 51% in the issued share capital of Rochester Wellness LLC, which was acquired from 19 October 2015.
The constitutional documents of Rochester Wellness LLC provide that ANCI has the right to receive 20% of the net profits, and ANMC as the right to receive the remaining 80%.
The Groups effective beneficial interest in the entity is therefore 80%.
9 ANMC holds 70% in the issued share capital of Abu Dhabi Medical Services LLC and National Medical Services LLC, respectively, The remaining 30% interest in these entities is held by a third-party shareholder as a bare nominee.
ANMC therefore holds a 100% beneficial interest in these entities.
10 ANCI holds the remaining 27% in the issued share capital of Manchester International Medical Centre LLC.
The constitutional documents of Manchester International Medical Centre LLC provide that ANCI has the right to receive 10% of the net profits, and ANMC has the right to receive the remaining 90%.
11 ANCI holds 2 7% and a third-party shareholder holds 25% in the issued share capital of Al Madar Medical Centre LLC.
The constitutional documents of Al Madar Medical Centre LLC provide that ANMC has the right to receive 74% of the net profits, Dr Manasra has the right to receive 25%, and ANCI the right to receive the remaining 1%.
The Groups effective beneficial interest in the entity is therefore 74%.
12 ANCI holds 2 7% and a third-party shareholder holds 25% in the issued share capital of Aspetar Al Madar Reha LLC.
The constitutional documents of Aspetar Al Madar Reha LLC provide that ANMC has the right to receive 74% of the net profits, Dr Manasra has the right to receive 25%, and ANCI the right to receive the remaining 1%.
13 ANCI holds 51% and a third-party shareholder holds 25% in the issued share capital of Manchester Clinic LLC.
The constitutional documents of Manchester Clinic LLC provide that ANMC has the right to receive 55% of the net profits, Dr Manasra has the right to receive 25%, and ANCI the right to receive the remaining 20%.
The Groups effective beneficial interest in the entity is therefore 55%.
Controlled through long-term management agreements.
Operating through trusts or partnerships.
208 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 JOINT VENTURES Interest in capital Country of incorporation and place of Company business Principal activities Wits University Donald Gordon Medical Centre Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare Services ASSOCIATES Interest in Book value of capital investment Group m m Listed: Spire Healthcare Group plc held through Mediclinic Jersey Limited na na Unlisted: Zentrallabor Zrich, Zrich The nature of the activities of the associates is similar to the major activities of the Group.
209 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc REPORT ON THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion, Mediclinic International plcs parent company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs at 31 March 2016 and of its cash flows for the 15 month period the period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the statement of financial position at 31 March 2016: the statement of cash flows for the 15 month period then ended: the statement of changes in equity for the 15 month period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
210 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 123, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Mediclinic International plc for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Giles Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 25 May 2016 211 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 31 March and 31 December Restated Restated  March December December Notes m m m Non-current assets Investment in subsidiaries Current assets Amounts due from related parties Cash and cash equivalents Total current assets Total assets  Equity Share capital Capital redemption reserve Share premium Retained earnings accumulated losses Share-based payment reserve Treasury shares Total equity Current liabilities Other payables  Amount due to related parties Bank borrowing Derivatives payables Total liabilities Total equity and liabilities  These financial statements and the accompanying notes were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 25 May 2016 and were signed on its behalf by: D Meintjes CI Tingle Chief Executive O cer Chief Financial O cer The notes on pages 215 to 220 form an integral part of these financial statements.
AR 212 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the period ended 31 March 2016 and the year ended 31 December 2014 Retained Capital earnings Share redempAccubased Share tion Share mulated payment Treasury capital reserve premium losses reserve shares Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 profit for the year Transactions with owners of the Company: Addition to share-based payment reserve Reversal of share-based payment reserve Dividend paid At 31 December 2014 At 1 January 2015 profit for the period Transactions with owners of the Company: Reduction of share premium Special dividends declared   Dividends paid in the year 2015 Reversal of share-based payment reserve Addition of share-based payment reserve Tender oer repurchase of shares  Remgro subscription  Repurchase of Mediclinic shares  Additional to treasury shares Settlement of sharebased payment reserve Addition to share-based payment reserve Transfer of share premium Capital reduction At 31 March 2016 The notes on pages 215 to 220 form an integral part of these financial statements.
