COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS for the period ended 31 March 2016 and the year ended 31 December 2014 for for months months m m Operating activities profit for the period year Adjustments for: Finance costs Loss from derivatives instruments Dividend income Net cash used in operating activities before movements in working capital Change in balances with related parties  Change in other payables Net cash used in operating activities  Investing activities Dividend received Repurchase of shares  Issue of shares Special dividends paid  Net cash generated from used in nancing activities Financing activities Obtaining a bank loan   Repayment of bank loan Payment of facility fees of bank loan Settlement of share option reserve Interest paid Dividend paid Net cash generate from used in nancing activities  Net movement in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period year The notes on pages 215 to 220 form an integral part of these interim accounts.
AR 214 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
"STATUS AND ACTIVITY Mediclinic International plc the Company or Parent"" is a Company which was incorporated in England and Wales on 20 December 2012."
The address of the registered office of the Company is C O Capita Company Secretarial Services, 1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London, EC3A 7NH.
The registered number of the Company is 08338604.
There is no ultimate controlling party.
The domicile of the Company is the United Kingdom.
The Company is a public liability company operating mainly in the United Arab Emirates UAE.
The core purpose of the Companys subsidiaries is to enhance the quality of life of patients by providing cost-effective acute care specialised hospital services.
The Company changed its name from Al Noor Hospitals Group plc to Mediclinic International plc on 15 February 2016.
The financial year has been changed from 31 December to 31 March with effect from 15 February 2016 the effective date of the reverse acquisition.
These financial statements are the separate financial statements of the parent company only and the financial statements of the Group are prepared and presented separately.
The financial statements are available at the registered office of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc C O Capita Company Secretarial Services, 1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London, EC3A 7NH.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The Companys principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are the same as those set out in note 2 of the Groups financial statements, except as noted below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
The Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement as part of these financial statements.
a Statement of compliance These financial statements include activities for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 March 2016 the period.
The comparative information include activities for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 the year.
"On 14 October 2015, the board of directors of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and the independent board of directors of Mediclinic International Limited announced that they had reached an agreement on the terms of a recommended combination of their respective businesses the ""Combination""."
"Al Noor Hospitals Group plc has remained the holding company of the Enlarged Group and has been renamed to ""Mediclinic International plc""."
b Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, including IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments to fair value.
c Functional and presentation currency The financial statements and financial information are presented in pound sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
Due to the reverse acquisition which occurred during the financial year, the Companys presentation currency changed from the United States Dollar USD in 2015 to the pound sterling in 2016, the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
A change in presentational currency is a change in accounting policy which is accounted for retrospectively.
Financial information reported in rand in the prior years financial statements has been restated to pound sterling using the procedures outlined below: Assets and liabilities were translated at the closing sterling rates: Income and expenses were translated at average sterling exchange rates: and.
Differences resulting from retranslation have been recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
215 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 3.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES This investment is stated at cost less impairment, if any.
 March Dec Ownership m m Al Noor Holdings Cayman Limited refer to note a ANMC Management Limited Mediclinic CHF Finco Limited refer to note b Mediclinic Holdings Netherlands B. V. refer to note b Mediclinic Middle East Holdings Limited refer to note b Mediclinic International Limited refer to note b a This represents the cost of investment in Al Noor Holdings Cayman Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Company issued shares to the existing shareholders of Al Noor Holdings Cayman Limited in exchange for shares already held in all the operating companies.
The cost of investment represents the Companys shares of net assets of Al Noor Holdings Cayman Limited at the date of the Group restructuring.
In addition, the Company has made an additional capital contribution to the equity capital of Al Noor Holdings Cayman Limited amounting to GBP89m.
b The investment in these subsidiaries were acquired as part of the assets transfer agreement between the Company and Al Noor Hospital Group plc on 14 February 2016.
The activities of the subsidiary are the operation of medical hospitals and clinics and the sale of pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and related equipment.
RELATED-PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS Related parties comprise the subsidiaries the Shareholders, key management personnel and those entities over which the parent, the ultimate parent, the directors or the Company can exercise significant inuence or which can signicantly inuence the Company.
a Key management personnel Key management includes the directors executive and non-executive and members of the Executive Committee.
 March Dec m m Short-term benets Salaries and other short-term benets b Amount due from a related party: Mediclinic International Limited This amount included the dividends declared by Mediclinic International Limited on 31 March 2016. c Amount due to a related party: Al Noor Medical Company Al Noor Hospital Al Noor Pharmacy LLC This amount included the transaction and operational expenses paid by Al Noor Medical Company Al Noor Hospital Al Noor Pharmacy LLC on behalf of the Company.
This amount is payable on demand.
RELATED-PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS continued Following the announcement made on 7 August 2015 and the general meeting held on 24 August 2015, the Company undertook a related-party transaction to lease premises from United Al Saqr Group LLC.
Sheikh Mohammed Bin Butti Al Hamed, a Director and principal shareholder of the pre-Combination entity Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, had a controlling interest in United Al Saqr Group.
At the general meeting, 99.34% of the shares voted approved the related-party transaction.
Sheikh Mohammed Bin Butti Al Hamed is no longer a shareholder of the Company, as the entire shareholding held through Sapor Business Corp, was tendered to Al Noor Hospitals Group plc for cancellation, as announced on 8 February 2016.
Information regarding the Groups subsidiaries and associates can be found in the Annexure to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES  March Dec m m Issued and fully paid 737 243 810 31 December 2014: 116 866 203 shares of 10 pence each Movement of issued share capital and share premium: Share Capital Share Number of capital redemption premium Total shares m m m m 1 January 2015 Reduction of share premium Remgro subscription   Shares issued to Mediclinic International Limited shareholders  Tender oer    Second capital reduction At 31 March 2016   At 31 December 2014  a The directors of the Company, having taken legal advice, have redesignated share premium in aggregate of 448m from the share premium account to retained earnings.
On 20 and 21 January 2016 the Company applied to the court for a reduction of the Companys share premium balance to the amounts of 359m and 89m respectively.
b On 16 February 2016, the Company applied to the Court proposed reduction of share capital from 80 million to 74m and reduction of share premium from 5 454m US$8 655m to 690m US$1 billion.
Accordingly, an amount of 4 765m has been transferred from the share premium account to retained earnings.
c The Company received legal advice on the scheme of arrangement and the premium on issue of share capital to Mediclinic International Limited shareholders did not qualify as merger relief under United Kingdom law.
217 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 5.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES continued Retained earnings  March Dec 2016 m m As at 1 January profit for the year First reduction of capital Second reduction of capital Capital redemption on repurchase of shares Dividends paid  As at 31 March December Other reserves Sharebased payment Treasury reserve Shares Total m m m 1 January 2014 Equity-settled share-based payment Reversal of equity-settled share-based payment - 1 January 2015 Reversal of share-based payment reserve Addition of share-based payment reserve Settlement of share-based payment reserve Addition to treasury shares At  March 6.
DIVIDENDS The Company paid special dividends of 383m dividends per share 3.28 to previous shareholders of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc on 26 February 2016.
In addition, the Company paid interim dividends for 2015 and final dividends for 2014 amounting to 15m during the period.
These dividends were subject to Board approval.
Details on the final proposed dividend has been disclosed in note 27.7 to the consolidated financial statements.
BANK BORROWING The Company has obtained a short-term bridge facility of 400m of which 313m was drawn down on 24 February 2016.
This loan is payable within the next financial year.
This loan bears interest at variable rates linked to Libor with a minimum base rate of 1% plus 3.75%.
The facility is secured in favour or lenders over the shares in Mediclinic International Limited and of Mediclinic CHF Finco Limited, Mediclinic Middle East Holdings Limited and Mediclinic Holdings Netherlands B. V.  March Dec 2016 m m As at 1 January Drawdown during the period   Repaid during the period Unamortised facility costs As at 31 March December 218 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 8.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Company paid or accrued an amount of 352 989 31 December 2014: 73 674 to its auditor in respect of the audit of the Company and Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016.
"SHARE-BASED PAYMENT RESERVE Forfeitable Share Plan The Mediclinic International Limited Forfeitable Share Plan ""FSP"" was approved by the Companys shareholders in July 2014 as a long-term incentive scheme for selected senior management executive directors and prescribed ocers."
This share-based payment arrangement is accounted for as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction.
With the change in control and the acquisition of the Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, the performance conditions of FSP have been nalised to the extent that the performance conditions were met as at 30 September 2015.
The FSP shares will vest after the vesting period has lapsed.
Under the FSP, conditional share awards are granted to selected employees of the Group.
The vesting of these shares are subject to continued employment, and is conditional upon achievement of performance targets, measured over a three-year period.
The performance conditions for the year under review constitute a combination of: absolute total shareholder return TSR 40% weighting and underlying diluted headline earnings per share 60% weighting.
 March Dec Number of shares transferred from Mediclinic International Limited  Closing balance  A valuation has been determined and an expense recognised over a threeyear period.
The fair value of the TSR performance condition has been determined by using the Monte Carlo simulation model and the fair value of the headline earning per share performance condition, consensus forecasts have been used.
The following assumptions have been used to determine the fair value of the TSR performance condition: Risk-free rate Dividend yield Volatility Apart from the FSP, there are no other share option schemes in place.
Therefore, no director exercised any rights in relation to share option schemes during the reporting period.
Al Noor Hospital Group plc directors which exercised options before the acquisition date 15 February 2016 is regarded as a preacquisition transaction in these Group financial statements.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS a Capital risk management The Company manages its capital to ensure it is able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return on equity.
The Company does not have a formalised optimal target capital structure or target ratios in connection with its capital risk management objective.
The Companys overall strategy remains unchanged from the prior year.
The Company is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
b Financial risk management objectives The Company is exposed to the following risks related to financial instruments-credit risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Company does not enter into or trade in financial instruments, investments in securities, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative or risk management purposes.
219 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 10.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued c Credit risk Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
There is no credit risk involve on the Companys financial statements except for the amount due from a related party disclosed below:  March Dec m m Amount due from a related party d Liquidity risk Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Directors of the Company, who has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Companys short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows and matching the maturity proles of financial assets and liabilities.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will be unable to meet its funding requirements.
The table below summarises the maturity prole of the Companys non-derivative financial liabilities.
The contractual maturities of the financial liabilities have been determined on the basis of the remaining period at the end of reporting period to the contractual repayment date.
The maturity prole is monitored by management to ensure adequate liquidity is maintained.
The maturity prole of the liabilities at the end of reporting period based on existing contractual repayment arrangements was as follows: Carrying Contractual year More than amount cash ows or less one year m m m m 31 March 2016 Other payables    Bank borrowing Derivative payables Related-party payables 31 December 2014 Other payables e Interest rate risk The Companys interest rate risk arises from short-term borrowing.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Company to cash ow interest rate risk.
Interest rate expose the Company to fair value interest rate risk.
The Companys policy is to maintain an appropriate mix between xed and oating rate borrowings.
220 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL CALENDAR Last date to trade cum dividend SA register Thursday, 9 June 2016 First date of trading ex-dividend SA register Friday, 10 June 2016 First date of trading ex-dividend UK register Thursday, 16 June 2016 Record date for final dividend Friday, 17 June 2016 2016 annual general meeting London Wednesday, 20 July 2016 Final dividend payment date Monday, 25 July 2016 Financial half year Friday, 30 September 2016 Half year results announcement and presentation November 2016 DIVIDENDS The Companys dividend policy, details of the final dividend declared and the proposed dividend access trust established for South African resident shareholders are provided in the Directors Report on pages 116 to 122 AR and in Note 9 to the financial statements.
DISTRIBUTION OF ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 31 MARCH 2016 Number of beneficial Number of % shareholders shares of issued UK register 737 162 590 037 22.05% SA register 40 380 574 653 773 77.95% Certificated 1 124 423 061 0.06% Dematerialised 39 256 574 230 712 77.89% Total 41 117 737 243 810 100.00% SHARE PRICE The latest share price information can be found on the Companys website at www.
com or through your broker.
SHAREHOLDER SERVICES AND CONTACTS SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES Enquiries relating to shareholdings, including notification of change of address, queries regarding the loss of a share certificate and dividend payments should be made to the Companys Registrars: SHAREHOLDERS ON THE SA REGISTER: South African Transfer Secretary Namibian Transfer Secretary Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd Transfer Secretaries Proprietary Limited 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001 4 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek Postal address: PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107 Postal address: PO Box 2401, Windhoek Tel: 27 11 370 5000 Tel: 264 61 227 647 Fax: 27 11 688 7716 Fax: 264 61 248 531 SHAREHOLDERS ON THE UK REGISTER: UK Registrar Capita Asset Services The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, United Kingdom Tel: 0871 664 0300 UK only Tel: 44 20 8639 3399 if dialling from outside the UK Lines are open during normal business hours from 8:30am 5:30pm Monday to Friday and charged at the standard rate.
You can also use their website to check and maintain your records.
Details can be found at www.
UK Share Dealing Service The UK Registrars offer a share dealing service which allows you to buy and sell the Companys shares if you are a UK resident.
You can deal in your shares on the internet or by telephone.
com or call 0871 664 0364 calls cost to 10p per minute plus network extras for more details on this service.
ShareGift If you only have a small number of shares whose value makes it difficult to sell, you may wish to consider donating to charity through ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme.
For further details please contact Capita Asset Services or ShareGift, telephone 44 20 7930 3737 or visit www.
221 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 COMPANY INFORMATION COMPANY NAME AND NUMBER Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc incorporated and registered in England and Wales Company number: 08338604 REGISTERED OFFICE Mediclinic International plc, 40 Dukes Place, London, EC3A 7NH, United Kingdom Postal address: PO Box 456, Stellenbosch, 7599 Tel: 44 20 7954 9600 Fax: 44 20 7954 9886 Ethics Line: 27 12 543 5332 Toll-free 0800 005 316 South Africa only ethics@mediclinic.
com LISTING FTSE sector: Health Care Equipment & Services ISIN code: GB00B8HX8Z88 SEDOL Number: B8HX8Z8 EPIC Number: MDC Primary listing: London Stock Exchange share code: MDC Secondary listing: JSE Limited share code: MEI Secondary listing: Namibian Stock Exchange share code: MEP E-MAIL AND WEBSITE info@mediclinic.
com DIRECTORS Dr Edwin Hertzog Chairman South African, Danie Meintjes Chief Executive Officer South African, Craig Tingle Chief Financial Officer South African, Jannie Durand ne South African, Alan Grieve ind ne British, Seamus Keating ind ne Irish, Prof Dr Robert Leu ind ne Swiss, Nandi Mandela ind ne South African, Trevor Petersen ind ne South African, Desmond Smith ind ne South African, Ian Tyler snr ind British, Pieter Uys alternate to Jannie Durand South African Jurgens Myburgh will be appointed as an executive director and the Chief Financial Officer of the Company with effect from 1 August 2016, in the place of Craig Tingle who retires on 15 June 2016.
COMPANY SECRETARY Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited Ms Victoria Dalby Tel: 44 20 7954 9600 INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACT Mr Gert Hattingh ir@mediclinic.
com CORPORATE ADVISORS Auditor  LLP London Corporate Broker and Sponsors Corporate broker: Morgan Stanley & Co International plc JSE South Africa sponsor: Rand Merchant Bank a division of FirstRand Bank Limited NSX Namibia sponsor: Simonis Storm Securities Pty Ltd Legal Advisors English legal advisors: Slaughter and May South African legal advisors: Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc. Remuneration Consultant New Bridge Street Communication Agency Bell Pottinger 222 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GLOSSARY TERM MEANING Annual Report this annual report and financial statements for the reporting period ended 31 March 2016 Al Noor the Al Noor Hospitals Group which was acquired by the Company on 15 February 2016 by way of a reverse takeover Articles the Companys Articles of Association as adopted in General Meeting on 15 December 2015 Board the board of directors of Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc CAGR % compounded annual growth rate cash conversion % cash generated from operations divided by normalised EBITDA CCU critical care unit CDLI Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index Combination the combination of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited, which was completed on 15 February 2016 Company or Mediclinic or Mediclinic Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc International DRG Diagnosis Related Grouping Emirates Healthcare Emirates Healthcare Holdings Limited BVI, the intermediary holding company of the Groups operations in the United Arab Emirates, which is referred to as Mediclinic Middle East throughout the report FCA the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority GDP gross domestic product GRI G4 the fourth revision of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines developed by the Global Reporting Initiative Group Mediclinic International and its three operating platforms in Southern Africa, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates Group refers to one of the Groups operating platforms, as the context may indicate, as defined below Group one of the operating platforms of the Group, as the context may indicate please note that Group is as defined in this definition and Group refers to the entire Mediclinic Group as defined above HAI  infection Hirslanden the Groups operations in Switzerland, trading under the Hirslanden brand, with Hirslanden AG as the intermediary holding company of the Groups operations in Switzerland JCI Joint Commission International, an international quality measurement accreditation organisation, aimed at improving quality of care 223 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GLOSSARY continued TERM MEANING JSE JSE Limited, the stock exchange of South Africa based in Johannesburg Last Practicable Date the date of approval of the Annual Report by the Board, being 25 May 2016 Listing Rules the listing rules of the FCA applicable to companies listed on the LSE, subject to the oversight of the United Kingdom Listing Authority LSE the stock exchange operated by London Stock Exchange plc Mediclinic or Mediclinic International Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc Mediclinic Middle East the Groups operations in the United Arab Emirates, trading under the Mediclinic brand, with Emirates Healthcare Holdings Limited BVI as the intermediary holding company of the Groups operations in the United Arab Emirates Mediclinic Southern Africa the Groups operations in South Africa and Namibia, trading under the Mediclinic brand, with Mediclinic Southern Africa Pty Ltd as the intermediary holding company of the Groups operations in South Africa and Namibia next financial year the financial year which commenced on 1 April 2016 and ending on 31 March 2017 NSX the Namibian Stock Exchange based in Windhoek, Namibia operating platform s Mediclinic Southern Africa, Hirslanden Switzerland and Mediclinic Middle East and their subsidiaries and associated entities, or any one of them as the context may indicate period under review the financial year which commenced on 1 April 2015 and ended on 31 March 2016 reporting period the financial year which commenced on 1 April 2015 and ended on 31 March 2016 SA the Republic of South Africa SA Companies Act the South African Companies Act, 71 of 2008, as amended UAE United Arab Emirates UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland UK Companies Act the United Kingdom Companies Act of 2006, as amended 224 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
