Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements At 31 December 2016 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION NMC Health plc the Company or Parent is a Company which was incorporated in England and Wales on 20 July 2011.
The Company is a public limited company operating in the United Arab Emirates UAE, Spain, Colombia, Italy and Denmark and Brazil.
The address of the registered office of the Company is Level 1, Devonshire House, One Mayfair Place, London, W1J 8AJ.
The registered number of the Company is 7712220.
The Companys immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals H. E. Saeed Mohamed Butti Mohamed Al Qebaisi H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr BR Shetty and Mr Khalifa Butti Omair Yousif Ahmad Al Muhairi Mr. Khalifa Bin Butti who are all shareholders and of whom one is a director of the Company and who together have the ability to control the Company.
The Parent and its subsidiaries collectively the Group are engaged in providing professional medical services, home care services, long term care services and the provision of all types of research and medical services in the field of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction, and the rendering of business management services to companies in the health care and hospital sector.
The Group is also engaged in wholesale of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics, food, IT products and services.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 7 March 2017 and the consolidated statement of financial position was signed on the Boards behalf by Dr BR Shetty and Mr Suresh Krishnamoorthy.
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments and contingent consideration payable which have been measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods, presented.
FUNCTIONAL AND REPORTING CURRENCY The functional currency of the Company and its subsidiaries in the UAE is the UAE Dirham and the functional currency of the subsidiaries operating outside UAE is the currency of those respective countries.
The reporting currency of the Group is United States of America Dollar US$ as this is a more globally recognized currency.
The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar at a rate of 3.673 per US Dollar.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars $000 except when otherwise indicated.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Review on pages 6 to 33.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 25.
The Group has two diverse operating divisions, Healthcare and Distribution, both of which operate in a growing market.
The directors have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to.
In its assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, the directors have considered the adequacy of financial resources in order to manage its business risks successfully, together with other areas of potential risk such as regulatory, insurance and legal risks.
The Group has considerable financial resources including banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups and utilizes short and medium term working capital facilities to optimise business funding.
Debt covenants are reviewed by the Board each month.
The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group, the spread of bankers and debt facilities mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its expansion through acquisitions and in relation to working capital requirements.
The Group delivered a strong performance in 2016.
Both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions have continued their positive growth in revenue during 2016.
Net profit and EBITDA of both healthcare and distribution divisions have increased in 2016.
EBITDA margin of Distribution is almost the same as last year whereas for Healthcare it increased slightly which is due to opening of new facilities during the year.
The directors have reviewed the business plan for 2017 and the five year cash flow, together with growth forecasts for the healthcare sector in the UAE.
The directors consider the Groups future forecasts to be reasonable.
The directors have not identified any other matters that may impact the viability of the Group in the medium term and therefore they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 2.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2016.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: Power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee.
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee.
The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
To support this presumption and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee.
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements.
The Groups voting rights and potential voting rights.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income OCI are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries listed below: Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December incorporation 2016 2015 Direct subsidiaries: NMC Holding Co LLC UAE 100% 100% NMC Health Holdco Limited UK 100% 100% Indirect subsidiaries: NMC Healthcare LLC UAE 100% 100% New Pharmacy Company Limited UAE 100% 99% New Medical Centre LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 99% NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 100% 99% NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 99% New Medical Centre Trading LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 100% 99% NMC Trading LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 99% Bait Al Shifaa Pharmacy LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 99% New Medical Centre LLC-Sharjah UAE 100% 99% New Medical Centre Specialty Hospital LLC-Al Ain UAE 100% 99% Reliance Information Technology LLC UAE 100% 99% BR Medical Suites FZ LLC UAE 100% 100% Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital LLC UAE 100% 99% NMC Day Surgery Centre LLC UAE 100% 99% NMC Hospital LLC DIP Hospital UAE 100% 99% Medifertil, S. A Columbia 61.90% 60.50% Centro fide infertilidad y Reproduccion Humana SLU CIRH Spain 88.40% 86.40% Centro fide Medicina della Riproduzione Biogenesi Italy 53.00% 51.80% EUVITRO, S. L. U Spain 88.40% 86.40% Copenhagen Fertility Center Holding Aps DK Denmark 79.60% Huntington Centro fide Medicina Reproductive, S A BR Brazil 53% ProVita International Medical Center LLC UAE 100% 100% Lifewise Home Healthcare LLC UAE 100% NMC Royal Hospital LLC UAE 100% 99% 98 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 2.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION CONTINUED Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December incorporation 2016 2015 The American Surgecenter Pharmacy LLC UAE 90% 90% The American Surgecenter LLC UAE 90% 90% Americare LLC UAE 90% 90% Trans Arabia Drug Store LLC UAE 75% 75% Sunny Specialty Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% Sunny Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% New Sunny Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% Sunny Al Buhairah Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% Sunny Al Nadha Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% Sunny Dental Care LLC UAE 100% 100% Grand Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 100% Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 100% Sharjah Pharmacy L. L. C UAE 100% 100% Sunny Sharqan Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% NMC Royal Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% NMC Healthcare LLC Oman 100% Fulfil Trading LLC UAE 100% Nadia Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% Cooper Dermatology and Dentistry Clinic UAE 100% Cooper Health Clinic UAE 100% Fakih IVF Fertility Centre LLC UAE 51% Fakih IVF LLC UAE 51% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC Abu Dhabi branch UAE 100% 99% New Marketing & Trading Co. LLC UAE 100% 99% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC Al Ain branch UAE 100% 99% New Marketing & Trading Co LLC Al Ain branch UAE 100% 99% New Medical Centre Trading LLC branch 2 UAE 100% 99% New Medical Centre Trading LLC branch 3 UAE 100% 99% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC branch UAE 100% 99% National Marketing & Trading Co. LLC UAE 100% 99% New Marketing & Trading Company LLC branch UAE 100% 99% NMC Trading LLC-branch UAE 100% 99% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading Co. LLC UAE 100% 99% National Marketing & Trading Co. LLC Dubai branch UAE 100% 99% New Marketing & Trading Co. LLC Dubai branch UAE 100% 99% New Medical Centre Trading Store LLC UAE 100% 99% New Medical Centre Veterinary Medicine & Equipment Trading Co LLC UAE 100% 99% NMC Trading LLC branch UAE 100% 99% NMC Trading LLC Fujairah branch UAE 100% 99% NMC Trading RAK branch LLC UAE 100% 99% New Medical Centre UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre LLC branch Al-Ain, Al wadi UAE 100% 100% NMC Pharmacy UAE 100% 100% NMC Pharmacy Branch UAE 100% 100% PVHC KSA KSA 100% TVM KSA Acquisition 2 Ltd Cyprus 100% NMC Royal Medical Centre LLC Branch UAE 100% Muscat Central Healthcare LLC Oman 100% NMC Healthcare India Pvt.
Ltd India 100% NMC International Trading LLC UAE 100% Cooper Health Clinic Branch UAE 100% New Reproductive Care Ltd Cayman 51% These entities are established by NMC during the current year and accordingly are not disclosed as acquired entities in note 5.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 2.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION CONTINUED During the current period, the Group acquired 1% beneficial interest in certain subsidiaries, as listed below, for a consideration of US$419,000.
These subsidiaries are registered in the UAE.
The Group previously had 99% shareholding in these entities.
The Group recorded a gain of US$536,000 on this in retained earnings.
NMC Specialty Hospital LLC Abu Dhabi NMC Specialty Hospital LLC Dubai New Medical Centre Specialty Hospital LLC Al Ain New Pharmacy Company Limited Bait Al Shifaa Pharmacy LLC Dubai Reliance Information Technology LLC New Medical Centre Hospital LLC Dubai New Medical Centre LLC Sharjah NMC Day Surgery Centre LLC NMC Hospital LLC DIP Hospital Bright point Hospital LLC New Medical Centre Trading LLC Abu Dhabi NMC Trading LLC Dubai In addition, the Group acquired an additional 2.0% interest in Luarmia SL Luarmia, increasing its ownership interest to 88.4%.
Cash consideration of US$1,533,000 was paid to the non-controlling shareholders.
The Group recorded a loss of US$1,123,000 on this in retained earnings.
2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The key assumptions concerning the future, key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES Impairment of inventories Inventories are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
When inventories become old or obsolete, an estimate is made of their net realisable value.
For individually significant amounts this estimation is performed on an individual basis.
Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are old or obsolete, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the inventory type and the Groups policy for inventory provisioning.
The gross carrying amount of inventories at 31 December 2016 was US$145,565,000 2015: US$136,176,000 and the provision for old and obsolete items at 31 December 2016 was US$1,178,000 2015: US$1,388,000 note 20.
Impairment of accounts receivable An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
For individually significant amounts, this estimation is performed on an individual basis.
Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are past due or claims which can potentially be rejected, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the length of time past due, based on historical recovery rates.
A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired pertains to Groups operations in UAE, these receivables are from insurance companies and government-linked entities in the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures.
Payments continue to be received from these customers and accordingly the risk of non-recoverability is considered to be low.
Any difference between the amounts actually collected in future periods and the amounts expected will be recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Impairment of non-financial assets Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
The fair value less costs of disposal calculation is based on available data from binding sales transactions, conducted at arms length, for similar assets or observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset.
The value in use calculation is based on a DCF model.
The cash flows are derived from the budget for the next five years and do not include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or significant future investments that will enhance the assets performance of the CGU being tested.
The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the DCF model as well as the expected future cash-inflows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes.
These estimates are most relevant to goodwill recognised by the Group.
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the different CGUs are disclosed and further explained in note 18.
100 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES CONTINUED Impairment of Non-Financial Assets continued In addition, the Group has work in progress in respect of Hospital Information System HIS and ERP amounting to US$4,345,000 2015:US$3,991,000.
This amount is included in capital work in progress in property and equipment and in software in intangible assets note 17 and note 18.
As required by IAS 36 an impairment test is performed and no impairment was identified.
Valuation of intangibles assets The Group measures its intangible assets acquired in a business combination as follows: Brand Relief from royalty Database and software Replacement cost Patient relationships Multi period excess earning method Non-compete agreements Income approach-with or without method Rental and private contracts Multi period excess earning method Estimating the fair value of the brand requires determination of the most appropriate valuation method.
This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation method including the base revenue, expected life of the intangible assets, selecting an arms length royalty rate, discount rate and making assumptions about them.
Similarly, estimating the replacement cost of the database requires an estimate of the number of cycles that are recorded in the database along with the best estimate of the hours dedicated by the staff such as doctors, nurses, biologists, and other specialist technicians to collect the data, the useful life of the database, discount rate and an estimate of tax saving.
Estimating the fair value of patient relationships and the non-compete agreements requires an estimate of the expected revenue over an appropriate period of time, a churn rate to account for the reduction in the number of patients over the years, discount rate, rate of inflation and the useful life and the risk inherent in ownership of the asset or security interest being valued.
Useful economic lives of property and equipment and depreciation method Depreciation is calculated on all property and equipment other than land and capital work in progress, at the following rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life.
Management has re-assessed the useful economic lives of all asset categories with effect from 1 January 2016, following a review of the useful economic lives of the Groups assets and market research conducted on depreciation rates and methods in the industry: Rate applied Rate applied from up to 1 January 31 December 2016 2015 Hospital building 2%-6% 6% Buildings 6% 6% Leasehold improvements 5.88%20% 10%20% Motor vehicles 20% 20% Furniture, fixtures and fittings 12.5%20% 12.5%20% Medical equipment 10%25% 10%25% The impact of the re-assessment of useful economic lives and depreciation method is an increase in reported profit of US$2,562,000 in the current year.
Useful economic lives of intangible assets and amortisation method The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Intangibles assets are amortised on straight line basis over their useful life.
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets: Brands 5-20 years Software 5 years Database 15 years Patient relationships 7 years Non-compete agreement 3-4 years Rental contracts 7 years Private contracts 3 years Contingent consideration on acquisitions Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is valued at fair value at the acquisition date as part of the business combination.
When the contingent consideration meets the definition of a financial liability, it is subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
The change in the fair value at each reporting date is recorded in the consolidated income statement.
The determination of the fair value is based on discounted cash flows.
The key assumptions taken into consideration in determining the fair value are the probability of meeting relevant performance targets, securing certain agreements, completing certain acquisitions and the discount factor note 5.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES CONTINUED Valuation of put option The accounting for put options requires significant management judgment and is driven by the specific contract terms.
Put options were issued as part of the Luarmia SL, CFC and HCMR acquisitions.
On the basis of the contract terms and interpretation of relevant accounting standards and guidance, the judgment is that the Group does not have present ownership of the noncontrolling interest NCI on account of Luarmia SL, CFC and HCMR as at the date of acquisition.
This judgment leads to the next stage of the accounting decisions required.
The Group has concluded that IFRS 10 takes precedence over IAS 32, and the permitted policy choice is that there should be full recognition of NCI using the proportionate method.
The financial liability that is payable under put option is measured at fair value at each reporting date.
The key assumptions taken into consideration in determining the fair value are the probability of meeting relevant reproductive cycles, EBITDA and net debt targets note 37.
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS Business combinations and goodwill Management judgement is applied in determining whether the acquisition represents an acquisition of an asset or a business combination.
This involves assessing whether or not the entities and the assets acquired constitute the carrying on of a business, i. e. whether there are inputs and processes applied to those inputs that have the ability to create outputs.
When a business combination occurs, the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets, are recognised.
The determination of the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
If the purchase consideration exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired, then the difference is recognised as goodwill.
If the purchase price consideration is lower than the fair value of the assets acquired then a gain is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Allocation of the purchase price between finite lived assets and indefinite lived assets such as goodwill affects the results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised.
The key judgements in respect of the contingent consideration recognised as part of a business combination relate to the performance of the business, the discount rates used and the contractual arrangements of ownership.
Functional currency The UAE Dirham is determined to be the functional currency of the Company.
Judgement has been used to determine the functional currency of the Company that most appropriately represents the economic effects of the Companys transactions, events and conditions.
The primary economic environment influencing the Companys income dividends is the UAE and the effect of the Companies local environment is limited to expenses incurred within the UK.
The ability of the Company to meet its obligations and pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent on the economy of, and the operation of its subsidiaries in, the UAE.
Assets held in the name of the previous shareholder In accordance with local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held in the name of a UAE national.
As a result, land and buildings of the Group are legally registered in the name of shareholders or previous shareholders of the Group.
As at 31 December 2016 certain land with a carrying amount of US$4,144,000 2015: US$4,144,000 are held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group.
As the beneficial interest of such land and buildings resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land and buildings in the Group consolidated financial statements.
The directors take into account this local legal registration requirement, the Groups entitlement to the beneficial interest arising from these assets, as well as other general business factors, when considering whether such assets are impaired note 17.
Leases for buildings and land Generally our hospitals, day patient medical centres and hospital projects under development are located on land and in buildings which are leased.
As at 31 December 2016, the majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from the leases for New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities, which had leases which are renewable on an annual basis with a total value of US$801,000 2015: US$778,000 included within property, and equipment as at 31 December 2016 note 17.
If any such leases are terminated or expire and are not renewed, the Group could lose the investment, including the hospital buildings and the warehouses on the leased sites which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The directors have considered the following facts in determining the likelihood that these leases will be renewed: Whilst some leases can be for long term durations, it is not unusual and can often be common practice throughout all of the emirates in the United Arab Emirates for landlords to lease land and buildings to companies on annually renewable leases of one year terms and for these leases to be renewed automatically.
Throughout the Groups over 43 year history it has never had a lease cancelled or not renewed, and the Group enjoys a high degree of respect in the region and believes that it maintains strong relationships with the landlords.
102 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS CONTINUED Leases for Building and Land continued Both the Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities have been occupied by the Group on annually renewable leases, for a period of more than 16 years and each year these leases have been automatically renewed.
The warehouse facilities have been built by the Group on land leased from government bodies in the Emirates of Dubai and Abu Dhabi on the back of the policies of these governments to attract investment in warehousing in the United Arab Emirates.
Lease for NMC Royal Hospital LLC NMC Royal Hospital LLC is constructed from land leased from Municipality of Abu Dhabi.
Remaining period of lease as of 31 December 2016 is 24 years expiring in 2040.
Management has determined the useful life of NMC Royal Hospital LLC building 50 years.
Carrying amount of NMC Royal Hospital LLC building included in property and equipment as of 31 December 2016 is US$122,463,000.
Management believe that lease will be renewed for the full useful life of the building.
The directors have considered the facts that throughout the Groups 43 year history it has never had a lease cancelled or not renewed, and the Group enjoys a high degree of respect in the region and believes that it maintains strong relationships with the lessor in determining the likelihood that lease will be renewed.
2.4 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS The Group applied for the first time certain standards and amendments which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
The new standards, amendments to IFRS, which are effective as of 1 January 2016 are listed below, have no impact on the Group.
FRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: Accounting for Acquisition of Interests Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures i.
Applicability of the amendments to IFRS 7 to condensed interim financial statements IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being made.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, less discounts and rebates and taking into account contractually defined terms of payment and excluding taxes or duties.
Revenue streams include clinic service revenues, sale of goods Pharmacy, sale of goods Distribution, Healthcare management fees and revenue sharing arrangement with doctors.
The Group assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent.
The Group determines it is acting as principal when it has exposure to the significant risks and rewards associated with the transaction and measures revenue as the gross amount received or receivable.
When the Group does not retain the significant risks and rewards, it deems that it is acting as an agent and measures revenue as the amount received or receivable in return for its performance under the contract and excludes any amounts collected on behalf of a third party.
Clinic, homecare and long term care service revenues Clinic, homecare and long term care service revenues represent the revenue which NMC generates from the provision of either inpatient or outpatient medical services, homecare services or long term care services.
The group primarily receives these revenues from patients private medical insurance schemes.
Revenues are recognised when, and to the extent that, performance of a medical service occurs, and is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in these arrangements as it has the responsibility for providing the medical services to the patient, it sets the prices for services which are provided, it bears the credit risk and it bears the risk of providing the medical service.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED REVENUE RECOGNITION CONTINUED Gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction Revenue in respect of the different types of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction services is recognized as follows: Donor IVF and Own IVF sales In Vitro Fecundation Revenue in respect of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction is mainly from In Vitro Fertilization IVF treatment.
Revenue from IVF treatment is recognized based on the stage of the treatment.
The treatment is divided into three stages.
Each stage takes about 20 days.
24%-25% of revenue is booked in the first stage at the beginning of the treatment, 50%-65% of revenue is booked in the middle stage at patients egg extraction in the case of the use of the patients own egg or in the case of the use of a donor egg at the fertilization date and 11%-25% of revenue is booked at the final stage embryo implantation.
These percentages are based on an internal study of the costs incurred in the different streams performed in prior years.
Cryo transfer sales Total cost of the treatment is split in two phases in terms of revenue recognition.
25% is recorded when the doctor agrees with the patient to initialize the treatment and 75% at the embryo implantation.
The time between both phases is about 2-3 weeks.
Intrauterine insemination Revenue is recognized in full at the insemination date.
Sale of Goods Pharmacy The sales of goods from pharmacy relates to the sale of pharmaceutical and other products from hospitals and pharmacies.
Whilst the Group does not establish the prices for the pharmaceutical products sold as both the purchase and selling prices for all pharmaceutical products are fixed by the Ministry of Health, UAE.
NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in respect of these sales as it provides the goods for sale, it bears the inventory risk, and it bears the credit risk from customers.
Revenue from the sale of goods Pharmacy is therefore recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer.
Significant risk for retail goods is passed to the buyer at the point of sale.
Sale of Goods Distribution Where the Group bears the inventory risk and the customer credit risk and has the ability to set the prices for the products sold then the Group has determined that it is acting as Principal.
Revenue from the sale of goods is therefore recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer.
Significant risk for retail goods is passed to the buyer for wholesale goods at the time of delivery.
For agency relationships, the revenue earned is measured as the Groups share of the revenue, as specified in the contract.
Any amounts collected on behalf of the third party are excluded from revenue and are recorded as a payable.
There are currently no material agency relationships.
Healthcare Management fees Management fees represent fees earned for managing a hospital.
Management fees are recognised when the services under the contract are performed, and the service level criteria have been met, and are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, in line with the terms of the management contract.
Revenue sharing arrangements with doctors The Group enters into contracts with doctors whereby these doctors are employed to perform certain procedures or run outpatient services using the facilities.
In return the doctors obtain a share of the revenues that are generated from these facilities.
Each contractual arrangement with individual doctors is assessed against specific criteria to determine whether the Group is acting as principal or agent in the arrangement with these doctors.
OTHER INCOME Other income comprises revenue from suppliers for the reimbursement of advertising and promotion costs incurred by the Group.
Revenue is recognised following formal acceptance of the Groups reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
INTEREST INCOME For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest income or expense is recorded using the effective interest rate EIR, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability.
Interest income is included in finance income in the consolidated income statement.
104 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED REBATES FROM SUPPLIERS The Distribution business receives rebates in the ordinary course of business from a number of its suppliers of pharmaceutical products, in accordance with contractual arrangements in place with specific suppliers.
Rebates are accounted for once approval has been received from the supplier following the negotiations which have taken place with them.
Rebates receivable are accounted for as a deduction from the cost of purchasing pharmaceutical goods, once the rebate has been approved by the supplier on the basis under IAS 18 that the probability of inflow is not sufficiently certain and the amounts cannot be reliably measured until that point.
When rebates have been agreed in advance, for example when it has been agreed that a certain rebate will be applied to the purchase of specific goods for a set period of time rather than just to a specific one off purchase, then the rebate is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price as soon as the goods are purchased.
When rebates are offered based upon the volume purchased and it is probable that the rebate will be earned and the amount can be estimated reliably, then the discount is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price when the goods are purchased and the assessment is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Rebates receivable are accounted for on a net basis, being set off against the trade payables to which they relate, as they are a reduction in the amount we owe to our suppliers in respect of pharmaceutical products purchased.
CURRENT INCOME TAX Current income tax assets and liabilities arising from overseas operations for the current period are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities in the respective overseas jurisdictions.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the consolidated income statement.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: When the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, when the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any unused tax losses.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: When the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss.
Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Tax benefits acquired as part of a business combination, but not satisfying the criteria for separate recognition at that date, are recognised subsequently if new information about facts and circumstances change.
The adjustment is either treated as a reduction in goodwill as long as it does not exceed goodwill if it was incurred during the measurement period or recognised in profit or loss.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, is measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date.
If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
RESTRUCTURING RESERVE The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interest method used for the group restructuring which took place on 1 April 2012.
This represents the difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC, the previous parent company of the Group, and the carrying amount of the investment in that company at the date of the restructure.
DEFERRED CONSIDERATION Deferred consideration arises when settlement of all or any part of the cost of a business combination is deferred.
It is stated at fair value at the date of acquisition, which is determined by discounting the amount due to present value at that date.
Interest is imputed on the fair value of non-interest bearing deferred consideration at the discount rate and expensed within finance costs.
At each balance sheet date deferred consideration comprises the remaining deferred consideration valued at acquisition plus unwinding of interest imputed on such amounts from acquisition to the balance sheet date.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on all property and equipment other than land and capital work in progress, at the following rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life: Hospital building 2%6% Buildings 6% Leasehold improvements 5.88%20% Motor vehicles 20% Furniture, fixtures and fittings 12.5%20% Medical equipment 10%25% The carrying amounts of property and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount, being the higher of their fair value less cost to sell and their value in use.
106 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Capital work in progress is stated at cost and is not depreciated.
Lease costs in respect of capital work in progress are capitalised within capital work in progress during the period up until it is commissioned.
When commissioned, capital work in progress is transferred to the appropriate property and equipment asset category and depreciated in accordance with the Groups policies.
The carrying amounts of capital work in progress are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised and the carrying amount of the component that is replaced is written off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases future economic benefits of the related item of property and equipment.
All other expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as the expense is incurred.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets: Brands 5-20 years Software 5 years Database 15 years Patient relationships 7 years Non-compete agreement 3-4 years Rental contracts 7 years Private contracts 3 years Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the expense category that is consistent with the function of the intangible assets.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the consolidated income statement when the asset is derecognised.
BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset until the asset is commissioned for use.
Borrowing costs in respect of completed assets or not attributable to assets are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
PRE-OPERATING EXPENSES Pre-operating expenses are the expenses incurred prior to start of operations of a new business unit.
These are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which they occur.
INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
Costs are those expenses incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition and are determined on a weighted average basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Accounts receivable are stated at original invoice amount less a provision for any uncollectible amounts.
Accounts receivable with no stated interest rates are measured at invoiced amounts when the effect of discounting is immaterial.
An estimate of doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when there is no possibility of recovery.
LOANS RECEIVABLES Loans receivables are initially recognised at fair value.
After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using effective interest rate EIR method, less impairment.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the statement of profit or loss.
The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, bank balances and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
EQUITY The Group has issued ordinary shares that are classified as equity.
The difference between the issue price and the par value of ordinary share capital is allocated to share premium.
The transaction costs incurred for the share issue are accounted for as a deduction from share premium, net of any related income tax benefit, to the extent they are incremental costs directly attributable to the share issue that would otherwise have been avoided.
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUALS Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods and services received whether billed by the supplier or not.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation legal or constructive arising from a past event, and the costs to settle the obligation are both probable and able to be reliably measured.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the obligation.
Increases in provisions due to the passage of time are recognised in the consolidated income statement within Finance costs.
PUT OPTION NON CONTROLLING INTEREST In circumstances where the Group has determined that they do not have the present ownership interest in the shares subject to a put option, the Group has concluded that IFRS 10 takes precedence over IAS 32 and accordingly a non-controlling interest NCI is fully recognised at the date of acquisition, The Group recognises the full NCI using the proportionate share of net assets method.
The financial liability that may become payable under a put option in respect of the NCI is recognised at fair value within liabilities, with the liability being treated as an immediate reduction to equity attributable to the parent other reserves.
The financial liability is subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date and the change in the fair value at each reporting date is recorded in the consolidated income statement.
TERM LOANS Term loans are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, term loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest on term loans is charged as an expense as it accrues, with unpaid amounts included in accounts payable and accruals.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
EMPLOYEES END OF SERVICE BENEFITS The Group operates an un-funded post-employment benefit plan employees end of service benefits for its expatriate employees in the UAE, in accordance with the labour laws of the UAE.
The entitlement to these benefits is based upon the employees final salary and length of service, subject to the completion of a minimum service period.
Payment for employees end of service benefits is made when an employee leaves, resigns or completes his service.
The cost of providing benefits under the post-employment benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit method.
Re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, are recognized immediately in the statement of financial position with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Re-measurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
108 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED EMPLOYEES END OF SERVICE BENEFITS CONTINUED Interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the defined benefit liability.
The rate used to discount the end of service benefit obligation is determined by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
The current and non-current portions of the provision relating to employees end of service benefits are separately disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group recognises the following changes in the employees end of service benefits under direct costs and general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Service costs comprising current service costs Interest expense With respect to its UAE national employees, the Group makes contributions to the relevant UAE Government pension scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees salaries.
The obligations under these schemes are limited to these contributions, which are expensed when due.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS Equity-settled share-based payments to employees including executive directors are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in note 32.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves other payables.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting are conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share see note 16.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in UAE Dirhams at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement.
TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN OPERATIONS On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into US Dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date and their income statements are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions.
All resulting currency translation differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
The Groups principal geographical segment is the United Arab Emirates.
The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar so a single rate of 3.673 per US Dollar is used to translate those assets and liabilities and balances in the consolidated income statement.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the consolidated income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward exchange contracts, put options and contingent consideration.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives with positive market values unrealised gains are recognised as assets and derivatives with negative market values unrealised losses are recognised as liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year are taken directly to profit or loss.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability: or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS An assessment is made at each consolidated statement of financial position date to determine whether there is objective evidence that a specific financial asset may be impaired.
If such evidence exists, any impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Impairment is determined as the difference between carrying value and the present value of future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
LEASES The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
Operating leases are recognised as an operating expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis.
Lease incentives are recorded as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term, on a straight-line basis.
JOINT VENTURE A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted investees and are initially recognized at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
4 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are listed below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
110 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 4 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE CONTINUED IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS CONTINUED The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
Either a full retrospective application or a modified retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date using the Modified retrospective method.
During 2016, the Group performed a preliminary assessment of IFRS 15, which is subject to changes arising from a more detailed ongoing analysis.
Furthermore, the Group is considering the clarifications issued by the IASB in April 2016 and will monitor any further developments.
The Group is a leading Healthcare service provider in UAE, Europe and South America and also a leading supplier of products and consumables across several key market segments in UAE, through its distribution division.
i Sale of goods In distribution business, the Group doesnt expect to have any impact on the Groups profit or loss on adoption of IFRS 15, as the Group recognizes the revenue at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer, generally on delivery of the goods.
Sale of goods has only one performance obligation.
In Healthcare business, the Group is considering the following in order to assess the potential impact of IFRS 15, if any: ii Various health packages: All Healthcare packages except some gynaecology packages referred below have very short length of service.
Services are rendered within 1 to 7 days and therefore revenues recognized at a point in time services are rendered.
Management is therefore not expecting IFRS 15 implementation to have an impact on the revenue recognized during a period.
Two healthcare gynaecology packages i Basic antenatal and ii IVF business consist of several stages or cycles and hence services are rendered over a longer period of time which varies from 1 month to 9 month.
Management is currently assessing the contractual conditions and its implication regarding the period when performance obligation is met.
Revenue from basic antenatal and IVF business in 2016 was less than 3% of healthcare revenue.
The Group continues to assess individual contracts to determine the final impact, if any of appropriate systems, internal controls, policies and procedures necessary to collect and disclose the required information.
iii Presentation and disclosure requirements IFRS 15 provides presentation and disclosure requirements, which are more detailed than under current IFRS.
The presentation requirements represent a significant change from current practice and significantly increases the volume of disclosures required in Groups financial statements.
IFRS 16 LEASES IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016, and specifies how an IFRS reporter will recognise, measure, present and disclose leases.
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with IFRS 16s approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17.
IFRS 16 applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
In addition, the standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements that are not expected to have any material impact on the Group are as follows: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 12 IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 111 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of entities acquired as at the date of acquisition are as follows: Fakih IVF CFC HCMR Nadia Cooper Lifewise Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Assets Intangible assets 25,324 149 1 25,474 Property and equipment 4,309 99 2,404 316 343 14 7,485 Inventories 613 356 969 Accounts receivable 8,579 811 2,553 1,102 181 38 13,264 Other receivables 41,436 101 109 101 591 8 42,346 Deferred tax asset 48 48 Cash and bank balances 3,395 163 346 134 835 4,873 83,656 1,222 5,917 1,653 1,951 60 94,459 Liabilities Borrowings 855 855 Accounts payable 4,788 340 2,032 297 1,137 38 8,632 Other payable 43,001 760 23 103 17 43,904 Tax payable 113 136 249 47,789 453 3,783 320 1,240 55 53,640 Total identified net assets at fair value 35,867 769 2,134 1,333 711 5 40,819 Non-controlling interest 17,575 77 872 18,524 Goodwill arising on acquisition 186,616 14,404 8,574 13,787 10,258 267 233,906 Purchase consideration 204,908 15,096 9,836 15,120 10,969 272 256,201 Purchase consideration: Payable in cash 190,446 13,582 9,836 12,251 9,502 272 235,889 Contingent consideration 8,128 1,514 9,642 Deferred consideration 7,051 2,869 1,467 11,387 Fair value measurement 717 717 Total consideration 204,908 15,096 9,836 15,120 10,969 272 256,201 Analysis of cash flows on acquisitions is as follows: Fakih IVF CFC HCMR Nadia Cooper Lifewise Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cash paid 190,446 13,582 9,836 12,251 9,502 272 235,889 Deferred consideration paid 3,410 435 1,467 5,312 Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 3,395 163 346 134 835 4,873 Transaction costs 744 259 106 136 14 1,259 Net cash flow on acquisition 190,461 14,163 9,749 12,658 10,270 286 237,587 The transaction costs reported in the consolidated income statement comprise of the following: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Transaction costs for Fakih IVF 750 Transaction costs for the acquired entities 1,259 3,304 Transaction costs for acquisitions in progress 3,344 77 4,603 4,131 The fair value assessment of identifiable net assets is final except for CFC and HCMR.
The non-controlling interest in all acquired entities is measured at the proportionate share of net assets of subsidiaries.
112 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED Other financial information with respect to acquired entities is as follows: Fakih IVF CFC HCMR Nadia Cooper Lifewise Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue from the date of acquisition 65,171 3,133 6,058 7,211 3,441 38 85,052 Profit after tax from the date of acquisition 35,293 1,284 376 3,036 430 87 40,332 Revenue from 1 January to 31 December 2016 unaudited 70,600 5,589 15,575 7,211 4,268 174 103,417 Profit after tax from 1 January to 31 December 2016 unaudited 38,101 1,506 794 3,036 626 125 43,938 Trade receivables gross value as of acquisition date 8,579 951 2,657 1,102 181 38 13,508 Trade receivables fair value as of acquisition date 8,579 811 2,553 1,102 181 38 13,264 ACQUISITION OF FAKIH IVF On 24 November 2015, the Group agreed, subject to regulatory approval and legal formalities, to acquire a 51% controlling stake in the voting shares of Fakih IVF, an unlisted group registered in Cayman Islands and operationally headquartered in Abu Dhabi, UAE, which is the Middle Easts leader in the provision of IVF and fertility services.
All controlling rights i. e. voting, appointment and removal of directors, dividend rights vest with NMC.
These rights cannot be relinquished.
The Group acquired the control of Fakih IVF on 8 February 2016, date on which regulatory approvals and legal formalities were completed.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Fakih IVF for 11 month period from the acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Fakih IVF with those of the Group.
Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment.
None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes as there is no corporation tax in the UAE.
Synergistic benefits will arise in the following ways: Fakih is recognized as a leading Middle East market leader for IVF treatment.
NMC plan to set up an IVF clinic in Brightpoint Hospital and NMC Royal, Abu Dhabi will benefit directly from set-up, training and efficiency cost savings as a result of utilising Fakih-IVF processes and procedures.
NMC patients in UAE can be referred to Fakih clinics in UAE for IVF related treatments.
The successful and swift launch of IVF clinics in the UAE under the NMC umbrella, and using proven Fakih technologies, is expected to attract additional patients from within the UAE and the wider GCC area.
There are only a small number of IVF clinics in the UAE at present.
This is a key growth area in the healthcare sector where NMC can use its substantial brand strength, together with Fakih own specialised brand, to attract new customers that may previously have chosen alternative clinic.
At the date of the acquisition, the fair value assessment of identifiable net assets included brands amounting to US$25,214,000.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised as there is no corporation tax in UAE.
Deferred consideration is payable in three unequal instalments in a period of two years with last instalment due in 2017.
Purchase consideration includes contingent consideration of US$8,128,000.
The full value of the contingent consideration is US$9,030,000 and the present value as at 31 December 2016 is US$8,128,000.
The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable in the event that licenses to operate in certain other GCC countries are obtained.
As of 31 December 2016, contingent consideration remains payable and is included in other payables.
Contingent consideration is expected to be payable by end of 2017.
The Group has incurred a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset by issuing the Post-dated cheques those were issued by a company prior to our acquisition and not connected to the unit acquired and have met the definition of financial liability, present value of such Post-dated cheques of US$38,029,000 was recorded as liability as of acquisition date.
Further, the Group has a contractual right to be compensated from the Seller by way of cash or other financial asset in case it suffers any loss on account of those Post-dated cheques as the Group is indemnified by the Seller for any loss that may arise on account of encashment of such issued Post-dated cheques before their replacement.
Accordingly, a contra financial asset has been recorded of the above same amount as of acquisition date.
As of 31 December 2016, present value of Post-dated cheques issued and corresponding receivable is US$36,929,000 and have been recorded under non-current other payables note 30 and other non-current financial assets.
ACQUISITION OF COPENHAGEN FERTILITY CENTER CFC On 10 June 2016, the Group acquired 90% of the voting shares of CFC, an unlisted company based in Denmark and specialising in research and medical services in the fields of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of CFC for 7 month period from the acquisition date.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 113 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED ACQUISITION OF COPENHAGEN FERTILITY CENTER CFC CONTINUED The Group entered into separate shareholder agreement dated 10 June 2016 with the sellers relating to a put option on the minority 10% shareholdings that remains with the previous owners post-acquisition.
The Group does not have present ownership of this 10% minority shareholding due to the terms of the option agreements and will continue to account for the acquisition of CFC on the basis of 90% equity stake, with full recognition of the 10% non-controlling interest.
The put options are exercisable from the fifth anniversary of the shareholder agreement.
On exercise of the put options, cash will be paid.
The value of the put option is calculated based on the EBITDA multiple.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date has been created amounting to US$1,585,000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2016, the present value of the redemption liability is US$1,541,000 Note 37.
The Group acquired CFC to enable Clinica Eugin to reinforce its presence in Europe and strengthen its brand and positioning at the forefront of its market.
Goodwill represents future business potential and profit growth of CFC and it comprises all intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, customer service, future client relationships and presence in the geographical market.
None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
ACQUISITION OF HUNTINGTON CENTRO fide MEDICINA REPRODUCTIVA S A HCMR On 12 September 2016, the Group acquired 60% of the voting shares of HCMR, an unlisted company based in Sao Paulo, Brazil and specialising in research and medical services in the fields of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of HCMR for 4 month period from the acquisition date.
The Group entered into separate shareholder agreement dated 12 September 2016 with the sellers relating to put option on the minority 40% shareholdings that remains with the previous owners post-acquisition.
The Group does not have present ownership of this 40% minority shareholding due to the terms of the option agreements and will continue to account for the acquisition of HCMR on the basis of 60% equity stake, with full recognition of the 40% non-controlling interest.
The put options are exercisable at any time between the lock up period and 36 months thereafter Liquidity period.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date has been created amounting to US$11,216,000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2016, the present value of the redemption liability is US$10,707,000 Note 37.
The Group acquired HCMR to enable Clinica Eugin to reinforce its presence in South America and strengthen its brand and positioning at the forefront of its market.
Goodwill represents future business potential and profit growth of HCMR and it comprises all intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, customer service, future client relationships and presence in the geographical market.
Purchase price allocation is not yet finalized.
Goodwill has been recognized based on currently available information and is subject to further adjustments as and if new information comes to managements awareness.
ACQUISITION OF NADIA MEDICAL CENTRE LLC NADIA The Group acquired 100% of Nadia because this acquisition extends gynaecology and paediatric service offerings to complement NMCs growing IVF womens health franchise including Fakih, Clinica Eugin and Bright Point Royal.
This medical centre is expected to contribute to the patient cross-referral capabilities of NMCs nation-wide and multi-specialty hub-and-spoke healthcare services network.
The Group acquired the control of Nadia on 7 January 2016, date on which regulatory approvals and legal formalities were completed.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Nadia for 12 month period from the acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Nadia with those of the Group.
Synergistic benefits will arise in the following ways: The ability to cross refer patients from Nadia to the nearby NMC Specialty Hospital and Bright Point Royal in Abu Dhabi.
Nadia can utilise In Patient and Out Patient facilities at Bright point and NMC Royal for deliveries and other procedures.
Synergies will arise from Nadia focus on gynaecology and paediatrics and NMCs growth in IVF & women health segments.
Deferred consideration is payable in three unequal instalments in a period of three years with last instalment due in 2018.
114 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED ACQUISITION OF COOPER HEALTH CLINIC AND COOPER DERMATOLOGY & DENTAL CLINIC COOPER On 30 December 2015, the Group agreed to acquire 100% of the business of Cooper because this business extends the specialisation in the provision of obstetrics, gynaecology, paediatric and dental services in Dubai region.
The Group acquired the control of Cooper on 8 March 2016, date on which regulatory approvals and legal formalities were completed.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Cooper for 10 month period from the acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Cooper with those of the Group.
Synergistic benefits will arise in the following ways: The acquisition of Cooper extends the healthcare segments market position within Dubai and the UAE as a whole.
The ability to cross refer patients from Cooper to the nearby NMC Specialty Hospital in Dubai.
Full and final deferred consideration payable was paid in August 2016.
Sunny, ProVita International Medical Centre LLC ProVita were provisional as of 31 December 2015 and has been completed during the year.
Purchase price allocation of all of these acquisitions remain same except for Dr.
Sunny for which fair value of contingent consideration has been updated by an amount of US$2,126,000 and accordingly purchase consideration and goodwill are reduced by same amount.
On the grounds of materiality considerations the adjustment have been recorded in the current period.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 115 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED ACQUISITION OF COOPER HEALTH CLINIC AND COOPER DERMATOLOGY & DENTAL CLINIC COOPER CONTINUED Analysis of cash flows for acquisitions done in previous year disclosed in 2015 consolidated financial statements was as follows: Luarmia SL CIRH Biogenesi TADS Americare Dr Sunny ProVita Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cash paid 127,107 11,393 5,522 5,905 31,443 57,973 160,592 399,935 Contingent consideration paid 2,276 1,742 4,018 Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 9,610 1,976 9 2,001 1,199 3,828 9,825 28,448 Transaction costs 1,745 87 96 81 313 374 608 3,304 Net cash flow on acquisition 121,518 9,504 5,609 3,985 30,557 56,261 151,375 378,809 Other financial information with respect to entities acquired in previous year disclosed in 2015 consolidated financial statements was as follows: Luarmia SL CIRH Biogenesi TADS Americare Dr Sunny ProVita Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue from the date of acquisition 29,668 6,645 2,858 5,243 11,435 12,158 19,701 87,708 Profit after tax from the date of acquisition 6,708 1,660 819 2,485 2,126 1,192 5,033 20,023 Revenue from 1 January to 31 December 2015 36,063 8,804 5,990 5,841 16,601 36,357 54,007 163,663 Profit after tax from 1 January to 31 December 2015 6,010 2,631 2,312 2,656 3,143 2,588 9,298 28,638 Trade receivable s gross value as of acquisition date 858 174 851 2,724 6,510 12,451 23,568 Trade receivables fair value as of acquisition date 678 174 851 2,724 5,372 9,881 19,680 ADVANCES PAID FOR ACQUISITIONS As of the reporting date, certain acquisitions are in progress for which the Group has paid an advance of US$1,614,000 2015: US$ nil.
6 MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES The financial information in respect of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: PROPORTION OF EQUITY INTEREST HELD BY NMC Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December Incorporation 2016 2015 Indirect subsidiaries Luarmia SL Spain 88.4% 86.4% Americare LLC UAE 90% 90% Fakih UAE 51% Shareholding disclosed is for Luarmia SL only.
Within Luarmia SL there are certain other subsidiaries.
The financial information provided below is for Luarmia SL and its subsidiaries.
ACCUMULATED BALANCES OF MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Luarmia SL 5,836 4,298 Americare LLC 1,062 704 Fakih IVF LLC 34,160 PROFIT ALLOCATED TO MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Luarmia SL 1,251 15 Americare LLC 357 184 Fakih IVF LLC 16,586 The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries is provided below.
This information is stated before inter-company eliminations.
116 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 6 MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED PROFIT ALLOCATED TO MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST CONTINUED Luarmia Fakih Americare Summarised statement of profit or loss for 2016 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue 66,078 65,171 17,044 Direct cost 23,597 19,469 10,377 Administrative and other expenses 26,812 8,831 2,281 Depreciation and amortisation 6,000 3,022 813 Profit before tax 9,669 33,849 3,573 Income tax 174 Profit for the year 9,495 33,849 3,573 Other comprehensive loss 3,955 Total comprehensive income 5,540 33,849 3,573 Attributable to non-controlling interests 1,251 16,586 357 Luarmia Americare Summarised statement of profit or loss for 2015 US$000 US$000 Revenue 39,020 11,435 Direct cost 16,205 6,485 Administrative and other expenses 14,116 2,538 Depreciation and amortisation 3,823 570 Profit before tax 4,876 1,842 Income tax 403 Profit for the year 5,279 1,842 Other comprehensive loss 5,342 Total comprehensive loss income 63 1,842 Attributable to non-controlling interests 15 184 Luarmia Fakih Americare Summarised statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016 US$000 US$000 US$000 Inventories and cash and bank balance current 17,449 13,861 363 Account receivable and prepayment current 8,934 31,615 9,298 Property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets non-current 135,570 68,454 3,236 Accounts payable and accruals current 17,682 5,113 1,843 Interest-bearing loans current 10,704 Interest-bearing loans and deferred tax liabilities non-current 36,592 Other payable non-current 20,450 39,102 437 Total Equity 76,525 69,715 10,617 Attributable to: Equity holders of parent 70,689 35,555 9,555 Non-controlling interest 5,836 34,160 1,062 Luarmia Americare Summarised statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 US$000 US$000 Inventories & cash and bank balance current 17,831 1,180 Accounts receivable and prepayments current 5,163 4,194 Property and equipment and other non-current assets non-current 108,265 3,333 Accounts payable and accruals current 9,026 1,350 Interest-bearing loans current 9,708 Interest-bearing loans and deferred tax liabilities non-current 35,524 Other payable non-current 12,801 313 Total Equity 64,200 7,044 Attributable to: Equity holders of parent 59,902 6,339 Non-controlling interest 4,298 705 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 117 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 6 MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED PROFIT ALLOCATED TO MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST CONTINUED Luarmia Fakih Americare Summarised cash flow information for period ended 31 December 2016 US$000 US$000 US$000 Operating 15,593 15,003 98 Investing 26,607 4,914 716 Financing 10,398 Net Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 616 10,089 814 Luarmia Americare Summarised cash flow information for period ended 31 December 2015 US$000 US$000 Operating 5,324 1,611 Investing 18,440 121 Financing 16,312 1,595 Net Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 3,196 105 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has two reportable segments as follows: The healthcare segment is engaged in providing professional medical services, comprising diagnostic services, in and outpatient clinics, provision of all types of research and medical services in the field of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction and retailing of pharmaceutical goods.
It also includes the provision of management services in respect of a hospital.
The distribution & services segment is engaged in wholesale trading of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics and food.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments.
The new acquired companies, Fakih IVF, Copenhagen Fertility Center, Huntington Centro fide Medicina Reproductive, Nadia Medical Centre, Cooper Health and Lifewise Home Healthcare LLC comes under the healthcare segment.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on EBITDA and profit or loss.
These are measured consistently with EBITDA and profit or loss excluding finance income and group administrative expenses, unallocated depreciation and unallocated other income, in the consolidated financial statements.
Finance costs and finance income relating to UAE subsidiaries are not allocated to individual segments as they are managed on a group basis.
In addition Group overheads are also not allocated to individual segments as these are managed on a Group basis.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
118 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED The following tables present revenue and profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups business segments for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015.
All other adjustments and eliminations are part of detailed reconciliations presented further below.
ADJUSTMENTS AND ELIMINATIONS Finance income and group overheads are not allocated to individual segments as they are managed on a group basis.
Term loans, bank overdraft and other short term borrowings and certain other assets and liabilities are not allocated to segments as they are also managed on a group basis.
Capital expenditure consists of additions to property and equipment and intangible assets.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 119 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT EBITDA TO GROUP PROFIT 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Segment EBITDA 288,228 180,474 Unallocated group administrative expenses 42,202 31,153 Unallocated other income 55 1,025 Unallocated finance income 9,157 925 Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 Finance costs 41,684 23,845 Depreciation 45,010 29,851 Amortisation 10,989 5,475 Impairment of assets 1,376 Transaction costs related to business combination 4,603 4,131 Tax 174 403 Group Profit 151,402 85,760 RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT PROFIT TO GROUP PROFIT 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Segment profit 236,497 148,745 Unallocated finance income 6,699 1,043 Unallocated finance costs 35,841 22,687 Unallocated group administrative expenses 42,202 31,153 Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 Unallocated depreciation 1,034 624 Unallocated other income 55 1,025 Unallocated amortisation cost 8,398 4,110 Unallocated impairment of property and equipment 1,030 Unallocated transaction cost 3,344 3,867 Group Profit 151,402 85,760 RECONCILIATION OF GROUP ASSETS 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Segment assets 1,719,961 1,286,789 Unallocated property and equipment 10,710 10,290 Unallocated inventory 22 22 Unallocated accounts receivable and prepayments 8,656 8,913 Unallocated bank balances and cash 436,949 86,321 Unallocated bank deposits 137,869 58,858 Unallocated intangible assets 2,826 2,687 Group assets 2,316,993 1,453,880 RECONCILIATION OF GROUP LIABILITIES 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Segment liabilities 329,018 226,425 Unallocated term loans 782,624 539,875 Unallocated employees end of service benefits 2,608 1,854 Unallocated accounts payable and accruals 8,281 5,837 Unallocated bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 219,851 154,962 Unallocated amounts due to related parties 488 178 Unallocated option redemption liability 25,252 25,084 Group liabilities 1,368,122 954,215 120 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED OTHER INFORMATION The following table provides information relating to Groups major customers who contribute more than 10% towards the Groups revenues: Distribution Healthcare and services Total US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2016 Customer 1 324,285 324,285 324,285 324,285 Year ended 31 December 2015 Customer 1 154,772 154,772 Customer 2 47,083 47,083 201,855 201,855 GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Revenue from external customers United Arab Emirates 1,154,757 841,851 Spain 55,361 34,994 Others 10,717 4,025 Total revenue as per consolidated income statement 1,220,835 880,870 Non-current assets United Arab Emirates 974,522 671,956 Spain 193,706 176,824 Others 859 844 Total non-current assets 1,169,087 849,624 Deferred tax assets United Arab Emirates Spain 2,122 1,302 Others 13 14 Total Deferred tax assets 2,135 1,316 ANALYSIS OF REVENUE BY CATEGORY 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Revenue from services: Healthcare clinic 720,051 410,408 Healthcare management fees 10,135 7,280 730,186 417,688 Sale of goods: Distribution 404,521 369,841 Healthcare 86,128 93,341 490,649 463,182 Total 1,220,835 880,870 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 121 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 8 EXPENSES BY NATURE 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 457,276 389,702 Salary expenses 371,075 239,139 Rent expenses 65,549 44,859 Sales promotion expenses 50,695 43,882 Repair and maintenance expenses 13,408 9,891 Electricity expenses 6,652 4,927 Legal & licence fees 8,134 3,561 Motor vehicle expenses 3,773 3,292 Insurance expenses 8,338 2,688 Printing and stationery 3,169 2,560 Communication expenses 3,724 2,393 IT expenses 1,656 1,193 Others 27,771 19,086 1,021,220 767,173 Allocated to: Direct costs 753,325 575,926 General and administrative expenses 267,895 191,247 1,021,220 767,173 The classifications of the remaining expenses by nature recognised in the consolidated income statement are: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Transaction costs in respect of business combinations 4,603 4,131 Depreciation 45,010 29,851 Amortisation 10,989 5,475 Finance costs 41,684 23,845 Impairment of property and equipment 1,376 Unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 103,662 65,914 9 OTHER INCOME Other income includes US$43,644,000 2015: US$35,256,000 relating to reimbursement of advertisement and promotional expenses incurred by the Group.
Revenue is recognised following the formal acceptance of the Groups reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
10 FINANCE COSTS 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Bank interest 31,648 18,106 Bank charges 3,594 2,489 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 4,282 1,793 Amortisation and re-measurement of option redemption liability note 37 2,160 1,457 41,684 23,845 11 FINANCE INCOME 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Bank and other interest income 1,418 925 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 7,739 9,157 925 122 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 12 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR BEFORE TAX The profit for the year before tax is stated after charging: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 457,276 389,702 Cost of inventories written off and provided note 20 1,869 1,678 Minimum lease payments recognised as operating lease expense 65,549 44,859 Depreciation note 17 45,010 29,851 Amortisation note 18 10,989 5,475 Net Impairment of accounts receivable note 21 2,957 1,740 Employees end of service benefits note 28 7,246 4,869 Net foreign exchange loss gain 490 593 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 31 185 Share based payments expense note 32 2,640 1,177 13 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor and its associates in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group.
2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 984 1,300 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 727 453 audit related assurance services 198 233 other assurance services 11 Tax compliances services 12 Tax advisory services non audit services 1,960 115 3,880 2,113 Included in the fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts is US$ nil 2015: US$12,000 which was under-accrued in respect of the prior year audit of the Companys annual accounts.
The fees paid to the auditor includes US$61,000 2015: US$115,000 in respect of out of pocket expenses.
There were no benefits in kind provided to the auditor or its associates in either 2016 or 2015.
Non-audit services relate to a Class 1 transaction significant acquisition combined with an equity placement and are non-recurring in nature.
This includes Reporting Accountants Report on the Historical financial information of the acquired company as well as working capital and Pro-forma financial information report, issuing of Comfort and Consent Letters and the Bring down Public Report.
14 STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS A STAFF COSTS 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 334,976 217,439 Employees end of service benefits note 28 7,246 4,869 Share based payments expense note 32 2,640 1,177 Others 26,213 15,654 371,075 239,139 Staff costs include amounts paid to directors, disclosed in part b below.
The average number of monthly employees during the year was made up as follows: 2016 2015 Healthcare 7,392 5,495 Distribution & services 3,166 2,456 Administration 263 230 10,821 8,181 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 123 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 14 STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS CONTINUED B DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Directors remuneration 7,166 4,623 Some of the executive directors are entitled to end of service benefits and to participate in share option plans as disclosed in note 32.
Further information in respect of this compensation paid to directors is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
15 TAX The Group operates in the United Arab Emirates and Spain and certain other countries.
As there is no corporation tax in the United Arab Emirates, no taxes are recognised or payable on the operations in the UAE.
There is no taxable income in the UK accordingly there is no tax liability arising in the UK.
With respect to Group operations in Europe and South America the tax disclosures are as follows: 2016 2015 Consolidated income statement US$000 US$000 Current income tax: Charge for the year 2,305 753 Adjustment in respect of charge for the year 5 163 2,300 590 Deferred tax: Charge on profit origination and reversal of temporary differences in the current year 2,126 993 Income tax charge credit reported in the income statement 174 403 No tax is included in other comprehensive income 2015: US$NIL.
Given that there is no tax payable in respect of operations in the UAE and no UK corporation tax payable, the Group has used the Spanish tax rate for the purpose of the preparation of the tax reconciliation presented below as all the taxable profits have been generated by Luarmia S. L. group of companies.
The corporation tax rate in Spain is 25% 2015: 28%.
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by the Spanish domestic tax rate of 25% 2015: 28% is represented below: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Group accounting profit before tax from continuing operations for the year 151,575 85,357 Less: Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations not subject to tax 139,594 78,558 Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations subject to tax 11,981 6,799 Tax at the rate of 25% 2015: 28% 2,995 1,904 Non-taxable dividend income 1,774 1,032 Tax saved on amortisation of intangibles 1,198 480 Adjustment in respect of prior period income tax 5 163 Different tax rates on overseas earnings 233 16 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes and other permanent differences 72 Deductible expenses for tax purpose: R&D and IT 382 609 Accelerated depreciation 39 Other deductible expenses 233 Income tax charged credit reported in the income statement 174 403 The effective tax rate of the Group is 0.11% 2015: -0.47%.
124 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 15 TAX CONTINUED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES COMPRISE OF: Deferred tax assets: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Tax credit for R&D expenses 1,126 1,235 Limit on tax deductibility of depreciation and amortisation 1,009 81 Total deferred tax assets 2,135 1,316 Deferred tax liabilities: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Depreciation and amortisation 8,245 9,761 Total deferred tax liabilities 8,245 9,761 2016 2015 Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities, net US$000 US$000 As of 1 January 8,445 Tax charge credit for the year 2,127 993 Foreign exchange adjustments 208 673 Acquired with business during the year 10,111 As at 31 December 6,110 8,445 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable as supported by forecasts that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
16 EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2016 2015 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent US$000 132,689 82,215 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 000 for basic EPS 186,627 185,714 Effect of dilution from share based payments 000 922 484 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 000 for diluted EPS 187,549 186,198 Basic earnings per share US$ 0.711 0.443 Diluted earnings per share US$ 0.707 0.442 The table below reflects the income and share data used in the adjusted earnings per share computations.
All one off expense and amortisation of acquired intangible assets, have been adjusted from the profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent to arrive at the adjusted earnings per share: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 132,689 82,215 Unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 Transaction costs in respect of business combination 4,603 4,131 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax 7,819 4,995 Impairment of property and equipment 1,376 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 146,487 93,953 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 000 187,549 186,198 Diluted adjusted earnings per share US$ 0.781 0.505 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 125 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 16 EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS CONTINUED Adjusted profit for the year of the Group is calculated as follows: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Profit for the year 151,402 85,760 Unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 Transaction costs in respect of business combination 4,603 4,131 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax 7,819 4,995 Impairment of property and equipment 1,376 Adjusted profit 165,200 97,498 17 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment consists of the following: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Property and equipment 459,338 433,524 459,338 433,524 Furniture, fixtures fittings and Freehold Hospital Leasehold Motor medical Capital work land building Buildings improvements vehicles equipment in progress Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2016 Cost: At 1 January 2016 19,206 12,343 26,300 157,888 9,322 180,342 161,744 567,145 Additions 970 4,072 1,751 21,190 38,949 66,932 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 2,228 35 5,222 7,485 Disposals 498 370 2,239 3,107 Transfer from CWIP 124,046 691 9,000 370 41,915 176,022 Reclassification 78 78 Transfer to Intangible 318 318 Impairments 1,376 1,376 Exchange difference 38 395 4 429 At 31 December 2016 19,206 137,321 26,991 172,612 11,108 246,113 22,981 636,332 Depreciation: At 1 January 2016 8,424 7,339 26,784 5,779 85,295 133,621 Charge for the year 2,032 1,454 17,429 1,345 22,750 45,010 Reclassification 40 40 Exchange difference 55 190 135 Relating to disposals 80 369 1,053 1,502 At 31 December 2016 10,511 8,793 44,093 6,755 106,842 176,994 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2016 19,206 126,810 18,198 128,519 4,353 139,271 22,981 459,338 Furniture, fixtures fittings and Freehold Hospital Leasehold Motor medical Capital work land building Buildings improvements vehicles equipment in progress Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2015 Cost: At 1 January 2015 19,206 12,343 26,300 51,859 7,421 143,488 213,758 474,375 Additions 2,317 1,564 14,088 63,733 81,702 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 2,268 571 7,222 3,631 13,692 Disposals 234 2,231 33 2,498 Transfer from CWIP 101,444 17,893 119,337 Exchange difference 118 8 126 At 31 December 2015 19,206 12,343 26,300 157,888 9,322 180,342 161,744 567,145 Depreciation: At 1 January 2015 8,114 5,920 13,730 5,185 73,069 106,018 Charge for the year 310 1,419 13,054 800 14,268 29,851 Exchange difference 20 20 Disposals 206 2,022 2,228 At 31 December 2015 8,424 7,339 26,784 5,779 85,295 133,621 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2015 19,206 3,919 18,961 131,104 3,543 95,047 161,744 433,524 126 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 17 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED As part of the Groups capital expenditure programme, borrowing costs of US$357,000 2015: US$1,691,000 have been capitalised during the year.
The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 1.9% 2015: 2.1% which is the effective rate of the borrowings used to finance the capital expenditure.
Companies in the UAE are not subject to taxation and as such there is no tax relief in respect of capitalised interest.
Total capital expenditure during the year ended 31 December 2016 was US$66,932,000 2015: US$81,702,000.
Of the total capital expenditure spend during the year, US$38,949,000 2015: US$63,733,000 related to new capital projects and US$27,983,000 2015: US$17,969,000 related to further capital investment in our existing facilities.
Generally hospital and distribution operations are carried out on land and buildings which are leased from Government authorities or certain private parties.
The majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital, and the warehouse facilities which have leases renewable on an annual basis note 2.3.
As at 31 December 2016 US$801,000 2015: US$778,000 of the amounts included in property and equipment related to assets with annually renewable leases.
In accordance with the local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held in the name of a UAE national.
land with a carrying amount of US$4,144,000 31 December 2015: US$4,144,000 are held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group.
As the beneficial interest of such land and buildings resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land and buildings in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The directors take into account this local legal registration requirement, the Groups entitlement to the beneficial interest arising from these assets, as well as other general business factors, when considering whether such assets are impaired.
18 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Patient relationship and Software Brands Database Goodwill Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2016 Cost: At 1 January 2016 6,841 40,129 19,638 341,420 10,475 418,503 Additions 473 473 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 258 25,214 233,906 2 259,380 Transfer from tangible 318 318 PPA Adjustment Dr.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 127 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 18 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED GOODWILL Additions to goodwill in the year relate to goodwill measured in respect of the acquisitions of Fakih IVF, Copenhagen Fertility Center Holding, Huntington Centro fide Medicina Reproductive, Nadia Medical Centre, Cooper Health and Lifewise Home Healthcare LLC.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for assessment of impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
The Group performed its annual goodwill impairment test in December 2016 and 2015.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the following operating segments representing a group of cash generating units CGUs, which are also operating and reportable segments, for impairment testing: Healthcare Distribution and services The healthcare CGU has goodwill allocated to it of US$562,459,000 at the year-end 2015: US$336,541,000.
The distribution and services CGU has goodwill allocated to it of US$4,879,000 at the year-end 2015: US$4,879,000.
The recoverable amounts for both CGUs are based on value in use, which has been calculated using cash flow projections from financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five year period.
Cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated using a 3% growth rate 2015: 3.0% which is significantly lower than the current annual growth rate of both CGUs.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flows of both CGUs is 8.45% 2015: 7.7%, which is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC and takes into account such measures as risk free rates of return, the Groups debt equity ratio, cost of debt and local risk premiums specific to the CGUs.
As a result of the analysis, there is headroom in both CGUs and no impairment has been identified.
Reasonable sensitivities have been applied to each CGUs cash flows and the discount rates used, and in all cases the value in use continues to exceed the carrying amount of CGU goodwill.
The key assumptions on which management has based its cash flow projections for the five year period covered by the most recent forecasts are those related to growth in available beds, patient numbers for the healthcare segment and revenue from the distribution of products for the distribution and services segment.
The assumptions made reflect past experience and are based on managements best estimate and judgment.
OTHER ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits.
Other than goodwill, the Group does not hold any intangible assets with an indefinite life.
Included in software are HIS and ERP projects amounting to US$3,349,000 2015: US$2,995,000 which are work-in-progress as of year-end.
Management is currently in the process of estimating the useful economic life of the HIS and ERP projects.
Amortisation of the software will commence once it is implemented and goes live.
19 LOAN RECEIVABLE 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Loan receivable 14,516 4,395 14,516 4,395 Classification of loan receivable into current and non-current is as follows: Current 5,387 2,670 Non-current 9,129 1,725 14,516 4,395 In 2015, the Group entered into a loan arrangement, with a third party Borrower, to finance certain payables in connection with a hospital facility, for an aggregate amount not to exceeding US$8,848,000 with the repayment of the first trance US$2,720,000 on 10 November 2016, second trance US$2,720,000 on 10 November 2017 and the remaining final trance payment by 10 November 2018.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, the loan agreement was amended in respect of first trance repayment date and total loan facility amount.
First trance loan repayment date was revised as 10 April 2017 and the loan facility ceiling was increased to US$18,513,000.
The Group believes that the amount is fully recoverable.
Loan is secured by obtaining personal guarantees of shareholders of borrower.
The fair value of the loan receivable as on 31 December 2016 was US$14,516,000 full value US$14,900,000.
The loan is interest-free, however, any unpaid loan receivable as of due date shall bear commission at the rate of 15% per annum starting from due date till date of payment.
128 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 20 INVENTORIES 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Pharmaceuticals and cosmetics 75,657 65,166 Scientific equipment 13,404 14,093 Consumer products 42,568 40,766 Food 7,087 9,118 Egg bank 2,656 2,622 Consumables 855 783 Opticals 309 315 Goods in transit 1,636 2,087 Other 1,393 1,226 145,565 136,176 Less: provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories 1,178 1,388 144,387 134,788 The amount of write down of inventories recognised as an expense for the year ended 31 December 2016 is US$1,869,000 2015: US$1,678,000.
This is recognised in direct costs.
Trust receipts issued by banks amounting to US$81,671,000 2015: US$21,370,000 are secured against the inventories.
21 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Accounts receivable 314,351 242,016 Receivable from suppliers for promotional expenses 13,164 10,690 Other receivables 27,179 12,225 Prepayments 19,763 17,544 374,457 282,475 Receivables from suppliers relate to advertising and promotional expenses incurred by the Group.
Accounts receivable are stated net of provision for doubtful debts of US$12,129,000 2015: US$13,022,000.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts are as follows: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 13,022 8,996 Written off 4,377 1,595 Written back note 12 1,843 1,295 Charge for the year note 12 4,800 3,035 Addition from business combinations 549 3,888 Exchange difference 22 7 At 31 December 12,129 13,022 The ageing of unimpaired accounts receivable is as follows: Neither past Past due but not impaired due nor Total impaired 90 days 91-180 days 181-365 days 365 days US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2016 Accounts receivable 314,351 210,592 70,940 19,070 8,944 4,805 31 December 2015 Accounts receivable 242,016 168,747 49,460 12,466 7,016 4,327 Unimpaired receivables are expected, on the basis of past experience, to be fully recoverable.
It is not the practice of Group to obtain collateral over receivables and they are therefore unsecured.
As at 31 December 2016 accounts receivables of US$12,129,000 2015: US$13,022,000 were impaired and fully provided for.
Credit risk is managed through the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to credit risk management note 33.
A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired are from insurance companies and government-linked entities in the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 129 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 21 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS CONTINUED Of the net trade receivables balance of US$314,351,000 2015: US$242,016,000 amount of US$159,922,000 is receivables from five customers 2015: US$108,936,000 is receivables from five customers.
The Groups terms require receivables to be repaid within 90-120 days depending on the type of customer, which is in line with local practice in the UAE.
Due to the long credit period offered to customers, a significant amount of trade accounts receivable are neither past due nor impaired.
Amounts due from related parties amounting to US$3,628,000 31 December 2015: US$4,116,000 as disclosed on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position are trading in nature and arise in the normal course of business.
Included in other receivables is an amount of US$7,679,000 2015: US$ nil receivable from entities owned by a non-controlling interest.
22 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents included in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprise of the following: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Bank deposits 137,900 58,886 Bank balances and cash 479,940 118,511 Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 219,851 154,962 397,989 22,435 Adjustments for: Short term borrowings 160,628 129,095 Bank deposits maturing in over 3 months 28,329 55,094 Restricted cash 96,885 12,412 Cash and cash equivalents 433,403 84,024 Bank deposits of US$137,900,000 2015: US$58,886,000 are with commercial banks in the United Arab Emirates and Spain.
These are mainly denominated in the UAE Dirhams and Euro and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
These deposits have original maturity between 1 to 12 months 2015: 3 to 12 months.
Short term borrowings include trust receipts and invoice discounting facilities which mature between 90 and 180 days.
Trust receipts are short term borrowings to finance imports.
The bank overdrafts and short term borrowings are secured by assets of the Group up to the amount of the respective borrowings and personal guarantees of the shareholders H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr BR Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti and carry interest at EIBOR plus margin rates ranging from 1% to 4% 2015: 1% to 4% per annum.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had US$59,715,000 2015: US$42,356,000 of undrawn bank overdraft facilities, which are renewable annually.
Restricted cash mainly represents funds held by a bank in respect of upcoming loan repayment and payment for acquisitions.
23 SHARE CAPITAL 31 DECEMBER 2016 Number of Ordinary Share shares shares premium Total thousands US$000 US$000 US$000 Issued and fully paid nominal value 10 pence sterling each 204,285 31,910 491,778 523,688 31 DECEMBER 2015 Number of Ordinary Share shares shares premium Total thousands US$000 US$000 US$000 Issued and fully paid nominal value 10 pence sterling each 185,714 29,566 179,152 208,718 Issued share capital and share premium movement Number of Ordinary Share shares shares premium Total thousands US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2016 185,714 29,566 179,152 208,718 Issue of new shares IPO 18,571 2,344 319,970 322,314 Share issue costs 7,344 7,344 At 31 December 2016 204,285 31,910 491,778 523,688 130 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 23 SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED On 14 December 2016, NMC Health plc had public offering on the London Stock Exchange and raised US$322,314,000, of which US$170,000,000 9,732,847 shares was subscribed collectively by Dr. B R Shetty, H. E Saeed Bin Butti and Khalifa Bin Butti and Infinite Investment LLC.
Infinite Investment LLC is an associate of H. E Saeed Bin Butti and Khalifa Bin Butti.
24 GROUP RESTRUCTURING RESERVE The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests method used for group restructuring, which took place on 28 March 2012 when the Company became the holding company of NMC Healthcare LLC through its wholly owned subsidiaries, NMC Holding LLC and NMC Health Holdco Limited.
Under this method, the group is treated as a continuation of the NMC Healthcare LLC group.
The difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC US$27,226,000 and the carrying amount of the investment in that company US$37,227,000, which equates to the net assets of NMC Healthcare LLC at the date of reorganisation 28 March 2012, amounting to US$10,001,000 debit, is recorded on consolidation as a group restructuring reserve.
25 RETAINED EARNINGS As at 31 December 2016, retained earnings of US$18,009,000 2015: US$17,590,000 are not distributable.
This relates to a UAE Companies Law requirement to set aside 10% of annual profit of all UAE subsidiaries until their respective reserves equal 50% of their paid up share capital.
The subsidiaries discontinue such annual transfers once this requirement has been met.
26 DIVIDEND In the AGM on 3 June 2016 the shareholders approved a dividend of 6.2 pence per share, amounting to GBP 11,514,000 US$16,350,000 to be paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 20 May 2016.
The dividend amount was paid to the shareholders on 14 June 2016 30 June 2015: a dividend of GBP 10,028,000 equivalent to US$15,866,000 was approved on 16 June 2015 and paid on 18 June 2015.
No interim dividend was declared during the year.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2017, a final dividend of 10.6 pence per share, GBP 21,753,000 US$26,538,000 will be paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 12 May 2017.
An amount of US$5,300,000 2015: US$ nil is paid as dividend to non-controlling interests during the year ended 31 December 2016.
The loan facility is repayable over 60 monthly instalments with a grace period of twelve months.
The applicable interest rate is dependent upon the respective leverages.
Based upon the leverage at the time of initial drawdown, the initial margin was 100bps 70bps over 1 month LIBOR EIBOR per annum.
The Group has utilised an amount of US$350,000,000 2015: US$350,000,000 against the syndicated loan facility as well as US$463,527,000 2015: US$163,679,000 of the delayed drawdown acquisition finance as of 31 December 2016.
This syndicated loan is guaranteed by corporate guarantees provided by NMC Health plc and operating subsidiaries of the Group.
The syndicated loan is secured against a collateral package which includes assignment of some insurance company receivables and their proceeds by the Group and a pledge over certain bank accounts within the Group and pledge of shares of the entities acquired using the proceeds of the loan.
In addition to the syndicated loan facility, term loans also include other short term revolving loans which get drawn down and repaid over the period.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 131 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 28 EMPLOYEES END OF SERVICE BENEFITS Movements in the provision recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 22,490 14,934 Charge for the year 7,246 4,869 Actuarial loss gain 147 260 Transfer from related party 4 Employees end of service benefits paid 1,546 1,133 Addition from business combinations 1,867 4,080 Balance at 31 December 30,208 22,490 Current 3,560 3,206 Noncurrent 26,648 19,284 Balance at 31 December 30,208 22,490 Charge for the year comprise of the following: Current service cost 6,525 4,234 Interest cost 721 635 Balance at 31 December 7,246 4,869 In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19 Employee Benefits, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligation at 31 December 2016 and 2015, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees end of service benefits payable under the UAE Labour Law.
During the current year, the Group has recognised an actuarial loss of US$147,000 31 December 2015: gain of US$260,000 in other comprehensive income.
Management has assumed an average length of service of 5 years 2015: 5 years and increment promotion costs of 1.5% 2015: 2.25%.
The expected liability at the date of employees leaving service has been discounted to its net present value using a discount rate of 2.5% 2015: 3.25%.
Management also performed a sensitivity analysis for changes in discount rate and increment costs: the results of this analysis showed that none of the factors had any material impact on the actuarial valuation.
29 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUALS 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Trade accounts payable 108,202 87,029 Accrued interest 2,691 1,014 Accrued expenses 7,362 7,536 Others 40,557 27,932 158,812 123,511 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 50-60 day terms.
30 OTHER PAYABLES 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Contingent consideration payable for acquisitions note 36 24,139 25,016 Deferred consideration payable for acquisitions 6,551 Other payable note 5 36,929 158 67,619 25,174 Classification of other payables into current and non-current is as follows: Current 26,827 11,150 Non-current 40,792 14,024 67,619 25,174 132 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS These represent transactions with related parties, including major shareholders and senior management of the Group, and entities controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by such parties, or where such parties are members of the key management personnel of the entities.
Pricing policies and terms of all transactions are approved by the management of the Group.
The Companys immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr BR Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti who are all shareholders and of whom one is a director of the Company and who together have the ability to control the company.
As the immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of individuals, it does not produce consolidated financial statements.
RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT The Controlling Shareholders and the Company have entered into a relationship agreement, the principal purpose of which is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying out its business independently of the Controlling Shareholders and that transactions and relationships with the Controlling Shareholders are at arms length and on a normal commercial basis.
In accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement, the Controlling Shareholders have a collective right to appoint a number of Directors to the Board depending upon the level of their respective shareholdings.
This entitlement reduces or is removed as the collective shareholdings reduce.
The relationship agreement includes provisions to ensure that the Board remains independent.
Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated income statement are as follows: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC Sales 14 699 Purchases 59,370 54,252 Rent charged 451 440 Other income 1,435 1,195 Entities where a shareholder of NMC is a key member of management personnel of such entity Management fees received from such entity by NMC 6,303 6,003 Sales 296 438 Amounts due from and due to related parties disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC Amounts due from related parties 328 Amounts due to related parties 14,876 17,419 Entities where a shareholder of NMC is a key member of management personnel of the entity Amounts due from related parties 3,628 3,788 Outstanding balances with related parties at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 were unsecured, payable on 50-60 days term and carried interest at 0% 31 December 2015: 0% per annum.
As at 31 December 2016 US$1,576,000 of the amounts due from related parties were past due but not impaired 31 December 2015: US$1,778,000.
The Group has incurred expenses and recharged back an amount of US$2,097,000 31 December 2015: US$1,854,000 made on behalf of a related party where a shareholder who has significant influence over the Group is a key management personnel of that entity.
Out of total term loans outstanding as of 31 December 2016, term loans of US$51,561,000 2015: US$28,372,000 are secured by joint and several personal guarantees of the Shareholders HE Saeed Bin Butti, Dr BR Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti.
Pharmacy licenses in UAE under which the Group sells its products, are granted to the shareholders or directors of the Company, who are UAE nationals.
No payments are made in respect of these licenses to shareholders or directors.
During the current period, the Group acquired 1% beneficial interest in certain subsidiaries, as listed in note 2.2, for a consideration of US$419,000.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 133 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED COMPENSATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Short term benefits 10,236 6,469 Employees end of service benefits 16 16 10,252 6,485 The key management personnel include all the Non-Executive Directors, the two 31 December 2015: two Executive Directors and four 31 December 2015: four senior management personnel.
During the year additional shares of 451,868 2015: 345,649 were granted to Executive Directors and other senior management in the form of share options.
One individual 31 December 2015: One who is a related party of one of the shareholders is employed by the Group.
The total compensation for employment received by that related party in the year ended 31 December 2016 amounts to US$1,303,000 2015: US$786,000.
32 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS The Group currently operates two share option schemes: LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP Options awarded under the LTIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management.
The exercise prices are nil.
Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of three years.
The LTIP is subject to performance conditions which can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 71.
SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLAN STIP Options awarded under the STIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management.
Fair values are determined using the Black-Scholes model.
Expected volatility has been based on historical volatility over the period since the Companys shares have been publically traded.
Administrative expenses include a charge of US$2,640,000 2015: US$1,177,000 in respect of the cost of providing share options.
The cost is calculated by estimating the fair value of the option at grant date and spreading that amount over the vesting period after adjusting for an expectation of non-vesting.
For options granted in the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2016, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2016 2015 STIP STIP Share price at grant date 9.675 5.200 Fair value at measurement date 9.520 5.060 Exercise price nil nil Expected volatility 40% 40% Expected option life 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 0.54% 0.91% Risk free interest rate 1.05% 0.98% 2016 2015 2015 LTIP LTIP 1 LTIP 2 Share price at grant date 9.675 5.200 7.650 Fair value at measurement date 9.520 5.060 7.377 Exercise price nil nil nil Expected volatility 40% 40% 40% Expected option life 3 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 0.54% 0.91% 1.21% Risk free interest rate 1.05% 0.98% 1.05% LTIP represent long term incentive plans issued in March 2016.
134 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 32 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLAN STIP CONTINUED The options existing at the year-end were as follows: 2016 2015 Number of Exercise Number of shares price Period when exercisable shares Long term incentive plan LTIP October 2014 160,778 nil 29 10 17 to 28 10 24 160,778 Short term incentive plan STIP October 2014 55,527 nil 29 10 17 to 28 10 24 55,527 Long term incentive plan LTIP February 2015 221,539 nil 25 02 18 to 24 02 25 221,539 Short term incentive plan STIP February 2015 74,801 nil 25 02 18 to 24 02 25 74,801 Long term incentive plan LTIP September 2015 49,309 nil 09 09 18 to 08 09 25 49,309 Long term incentive plan LTIP March 2016 383,717 nil 15 03 19 to 14 03 26 Short term incentive plan STIP March 2016 68,151 nil 15 03 19 to 14 03 26 Total options subsisting on existing ordinary shares 1,013,822 561,954 Percentage of issued share capital 0.5% 0.3% Movement of share options during the year is as follows: 2016 2015 At 1 January 561,954 216,305 Granted during the year 451,868 345,649 Outstanding at 31 December 1,013,822 561,954 No options expired, were exercised or forfeited during the year 2015: nil.
33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, contingent consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries, put option redemption liability and trade and other payables.
In addition to these financial liabilities the Group has forward exchange contract as of 31 December 2016.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has accounts and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
These risks and the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are consistent with last year.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk includes risk on the Groups net investment in foreign subsidiaries in Spain and certain other countries.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
INTEREST RATE RISK Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its interest bearing assets and liabilities bank deposits, bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings and term loans.
Management is of the opinion that the Groups exposure to interest rate risk is limited.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the consolidated income statement to reasonably possible changes in interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity of the consolidated income statement is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates on the Groups profit for the year based on the floating rate financial assets and financial liabilities as of the respective year end.
Effect on profit at Effect on profit at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Increase decrease in basis points US$000 US$000 100 9,112 6,714 100 9,112 6,714 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 135 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group limits its credit risk with respect to customers due to the nature of the customers that it has dealings with.
Within the Healthcare business in the UAE, the majority of the Groups customers are insurance companies.
The largest insurance company in UAE is fully backed by Sovereign wealth funding from Abu Dhabi.
All other insurance companies in the UAE are required to be listed on a stock exchange and therefore are governed by the regulations of their respective markets.
The Group limits its credit risk with respect to healthcare customers in markets other than UAE by requesting certain percentage of advance payments from customers and obtaining final payments before completion of treatment.
Within the distribution business the Group deals primarily with large reputable multinational retail companies.
The Group further seeks to limit its credit risk by setting credit limits for individual customers and monitoring outstanding receivables.
The Group limits its credit risk with regard to bank deposits by only dealing with reputable banks.
The external credit ratings for the banks at which the bank deposits and cash at bank are held are as follows: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 AAA-1 Aa3 11,903 18,038 A A1 5,494 722 A A2 219,787 19,426 A A-1 4,273 419 A3 A- 5,865 4,352 AA 4 AAA A-1 6,164 A2 P-1 140 A3 P-2 19 B1 1,629 1,145 BB 4,196 2,496 BB 562 812 Baa3 163,491 109,728 BBB 1,938 2,609 BBB- 42,172 7,941 BBB Baa1 Baa1 P-2 120,627 5,769 Without external credit rating 28,633 2,895 Total bank deposit and cash at bank 616,893 176,356 With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
LIQUIDITY RISK The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of banking facilities.
The Group limits its liquidity risk by raising funds from its operations and ensuring bank facilities are available.
Trade payables are normally settled within 50-60 days of the date of purchase.
The table below summarises the maturities of the Groups undiscounted financial liabilities, based on contractual payment dates and current market interest rates.
Financial Statements 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED LIQUIDITY RISK CONTINUED Less than 3 On demand months 3 to 12 months 1 to 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 31 December 2015 Trade accounts payable 87,029 87,029 Amounts due to related parties 17,419 17,419 Other payables 32,932 4,194 18,321 55,447 Option redemption payable 30,163 30,163 Terms loans 46,612 54,889 506,722 608,223 Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 26,325 58,350 74,189 158,864 Financial guarantees 9,069 9,069 Total 35,394 242,342 133,272 555,206 966,214 The Group also has future capital commitments for the completion of ongoing capital projects of US$9,048,000 2015: US$30,230,000 note 35.
These are to be financed from the fixed deposits held by the Group.
During the time of acquisition of Al Zahra Hospital in order to pay the consideration and as a back stop of existing US$ 825,000,000 long term debt facility, the Group has finalised a new loan facility with JP Morgan Chase Bank and Standard Chartered Bank as mandated lead arrangers for US$1,400,000,000 in the month of December 2016.
Of this an amount of US$ 325,000,000 has been cancelled after raising equity on 14 December 2016.
The balance facility of US$ 1,075,000,000 remains unutilized as of 31 December 2016.
From this an amount of US$825,000,000 will be utilized to replace existing long term debt facility and remaining, if needed, will be utilized to fund the Al Zahra Hospital acquisition.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk comprises of transaction risk, statement of financial position risk and the Groups net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Transaction risk relates to the Groups cash flow being adversely affected by a change in the exchange rates of foreign currencies against the UAE Dirham.
Statement of financial position risk relates to the risk of the Groups monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies acquiring a lower or higher value, when translated into UAE Dirhams, as a result of currency movements.
The Group is exposed to currency risk on its trade accounts payable, put option redemption payable and certain other payables denominated in foreign currencies, mainly in Euros and Saudi Riyal.
As the US Dollar is pegged to the UAE Dirham, balances in US Dollars are not considered to represent significant currency risk.
The table below indicates the impact of Groups foreign currency monetary liabilities and assets at 31 December, on its profit before tax.
2016 2015 US$000 US$000 5% 2,113 1,690 -5% 2,113 1,690 The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
During the year ended 31 December 2016 the Group has recorded a foreign currency exchange loss of US$4,050,000 2015: US$5,342,000 on the translation of foreign subsidiaries in other comprehensive income.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholders value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in business conditions.
Capital comprises share capital, share premium, reserves and retained earnings and is measured at US$906,869,000 as at 31 December 2016 2015: US$487,697,000.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Certain banking facilities may also impose covenant requirements on the Group with respect to capital management.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 137 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by capital plus net debt.
The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, accounts payable and accruals and other payables less bank deposits and bank balances and cash.
2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,049,150 730,308 Accounts payable and accruals 158,812 123,511 Other payable 67,619 25,174 Option redemption payable 37,500 25,084 Less: bank deposits, bank balances and cash 617,840 177,397 Net debt 695,241 726,680 Capital 906,869 487,697 Capital and net debt 1,602,110 1,214,377 Gearing ratio 43% 60% 34 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business from which it is anticipated that no material liabilities will arise at 31 December 2016 of US$11,764,000 2015: US$9,069,000.
35 COMMITMENTS CAPITAL COMMITMENTS The Group had future capital commitments of US$9,048,000 at 31 December 2016 2015: US$30,230,000 principally relating to the completion of ongoing capital projects.
OTHER COMMITMENTS 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases Within one year 11,354 12,846 After one year but not more than five years 53,896 53,943 More than five years 74,080 84,407 Total 139,330 151,196 36 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE FORWARD EXCHANGE CONTRACT The Group holds a forward exchange contract to manage foreign exchange exposure.
The forward contract has a principal value of US$15,000,000 and is denominated in Qatari Riyal.
This contract has not been designated as a cash flow hedge and the increase in the fair value during 2016 of US$1,249,000 2015: decrease in fair value of US$1,200,000 has been included in finance costs and the corresponding receivable is included in the others category within other receivable note 21.
This is a level 2 derivative financial instrument.
CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION Contingent consideration relates to acquisitions done in current and prior year.
Movements in contingent consideration payable are as follows: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 25,016 Contingent consideration recognised at acquisition note 5 9,642 29,041 Fair value measurement 1,549 49 Purchase price allocation adjustment note 5 2,126 Exchange gain 375 56 Payments made 9,567 4,018 Balance at 31 December 24,139 25,016 138 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 36 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE CONTINUED CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION CONTINUED In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, contingent consideration is classified as a level 3 derivative financial instrument.
The fair value of outstanding contingent consideration as at the reporting date is US$24,139,000.
The valuation technique used for measurement of contingent consideration is the weighted average probability method and then applying discounting.
Contingent consideration payable as of 31 December 2016 comprises of following: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 CIRH 2,912 2,768 Biogenesi 4,741 6,578 Dr Sunny Healthcare 3,644 7,345 ProVita 3,298 8,325 Fakih 8,128 CFC 1,416 24,139 25,016 CIRH Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of revenue or reproductive cycle targets.
Management believes that these targets will be met.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$3,156,000 2015: US$3,255,000 and its present value is US$2,912,000 2015: US$2,768,000.
This is due for payment in 2017.
Significant unobservable input used is discount rate 9.2%.
A 1% increase in discount rate would result in decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$24,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase in fair value by US$49,000.
Biogenesi Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of profit before tax target.
Significant unobservable inputs used are profit before tax and discount rate 10.7%.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$5,260,000 2015: US$7,700,000 and its present value is US$4,741,000 2015: US$6,578,000.
Contingent consideration amounting to US$2,212,000 on achieving 2016 EBITDA target has been paid during the year.
Outstanding contingent consideration is payable in the period from 2017 to 2019.
A 1% increase in discount rate would result in decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$42,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase in fair value by US$43,000.
Management believe profit before tax targets for FY 2017FY 2019 will be met and accordingly not considered sensitive to fair value measurement.
Sunny Healthcare The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable on achieving 2016 EBITDA target amount.
Target EBITDA has been achieved and accordingly this contingent consideration becomes payable.
Contingent consideration amounting to US$2,328,000 on achieving 2015 EBITDA has been paid during the year.
ProVita The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable in the event that licenses to operate in certain other GCC countries are obtained.
Management believes that it is highly probable that these licenses will be obtained.
One of the licenses has been obtained and an amount of US$5,027,000 has been paid.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$3,500,000 2015: US$8,500,000 and its present value is US$3,298,000 2015: US$8,325,000.
Fakih The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable in the event that licenses to operate in certain other GCC countries are obtained.
Management believes that it is highly probable that these licenses will be obtained Note 5.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$9,031,000 2015: US$nil and its present value is US$8,128,000 2015: US$nil.
CFC The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable on achieving 2016 EBITDA target amount.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 139 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 37 OPTION REDEMPTION PAYABLE Option redemption payable comprise of the following: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Luarmia 25,252 25,084 CFC and HCMR 12,248 37,500 25,084 Movement in option redemption payable is as follows: 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 25,084 Addition 12,801 24,496 Amortisation and re-measurement adjustment note 10 2,160 1,457 Exchange gain 275 869 Settlement of put option 2,270 Balance at 31 December 37,500 25,084 LUARMIA As part of acquisition of Luarmia SL Luarmia in 2015, the Group entered into separate co-investment shareholder agreements dated 23 February 2015 with the sellers relating to put & call options on the minority 13.6% shareholdings that remains with the previous owners post-acquisition.
The Group does not have present ownership of this 11.6% 2015: 13.6% minority shareholding due to the terms of the option agreements and continue to account for the acquisition of Luarmia on the basis of an 88.4% 2015: 86.4% equity stake, with full recognition of the 11.6% 2015: 13.6% non-controlling interest.
The put options are exercisable between 1 & 30 June 2018, 1 & 30 June 2019 and 1 & 30 June 2020 three exercisable windows.
The value of the put option is calculated based on the multiple of purchase price and further multiples are measured on the number of reproductive cycles specified in the agreement.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date was created amounting to US$24,496,000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2016, the present value of the redemption liability is US$25,252,000 2015: US$25,084,000.
On 28 November 2016, the Group acquired an additional 2.0% interest in the voting shares of Luarmia, increasing its ownership interest to 88.4% for cash consideration of US$1,533,000.
As the ownership interest increased by 2%, the Group derecognizes the financial liability of US$2,270,400 in relation to such 2% put option and recognizes an offsetting credit in the same component of equity recorded on initial recognition i. e. put option redemption reserve.
The key assumption in estimating the expected amount is the multiple of purchase price and reproductive cycles projections.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in these assumptions for example a 10% increase in reproductive cycles will result in an increase in the financial liability with US$3,268,830 2015: US$28,290,000, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability with US$3,101,800 2015: US$22,039,000.
CFC and HCMR During the year, Luarmia SL entered into put option agreements with the minority shareholders of Brazil and Denmark entities.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date was created amounting to US$11,216,000 and US$1,585,000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2016, the present value of the redemption liability is US$10,707,000 and US$1,541,000 respectively.
The put option of HCMR is exercisable any time starting from the third anniversary and 36 months thereafter.
The earliest date of exercise is September 2019.
The key assumption in estimating the liability amount is the forecasted EBITDA of the year 2018 and 2019 and projected net debt of 2019.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in the forecasted EBITDA and Net Debt.
For example a 10% simultaneous increase in EBITDA and Net debt will result in an increase in the financial liability with US$876,000 while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability with US$876,000.
The put option for CFC is exercisable from the fifth anniversary of the date of the agreement.
With respect to this, the earliest month of exercise is June 2021.
The key assumption in estimating the liability amount is the forecasted EBITDA of the entity for 2020.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in the forecasted EBITDA.
For example a 10% increase in EBITDA will result in an increase in the financial liability with US$154,000, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability with US$154,000.
140 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 38 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair values of the Groups financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values at the statement of financial position date.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value are disclosed in note 36.
During the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
39 INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURE The Group has a 45.83% interest in Egyptian International Company EIC, a joint venture involved in the field of providing extensive expertise services Healthcare and hospital management.
The Groups interest in EIC amounting US$834,000 is accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements.
EIC has not started its operations and accordingly, no share of profit or loss is recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
40 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS ACQUISITION OF AS SALAMA HOSPITAL LLC ASH On 28 August 2016, the Group agreed to acquire a 70% controlling stake in the voting shares of As Salama Hospital LLC ASH, an unlisted private general hospital which exists to serve the healthcare needs of all people in Al-Khobar, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and surrounding areas by providing acute and long-term care.
ASH accomplishes this through dedicated, competent staff providing accessible patient-focused care, guided by a commitment to continuous improvement.
ASH is a leader in Long Term Care service provider Over Long Term Care, it also provides its patients with other comprehensive healthcare services due to lack of healthcare facilities in the vicinity in Al Khobar, Eastern province of Saudi Arabia.
ASH is the fifth largest hospital in the Eastern province of Saudi Arabia and account for 10% of market share, with occupancy rate stands at 84.8% in 2015.
Regulatory approvals and legal formalities completed on 02 January 2017, meaning that control has passed to the Group and full consolidation of results will commence from that date.
The agreed purchase consideration for the business was US$28m.
There is no deferred and contingent consideration payable.
The fair value assessment of identifiable net assets at the acquisition date remains in progress and therefore the fair value of the identifiable net assets is preliminary.
The Group has a 1 year timeframe from the date of acquisition to finalise the measurement of the net assets acquired.
The net assets identified to date are those existing at the acquisition date, those forming part of the acquisition, and those that meet the recognition criteria for assets and liabilities.
No acquisition date contingent liabilities requiring full recognition have been noted as yet.
Provisional goodwill has been calculated being the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid and payable, and the fair value of the net assets acquired.
For convenience, the closest available balance sheet date has been used for the purposes of measuring net assets acquired.
This date is 31 December 2016, with full consolidation commencing on 1 January 2017.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 141 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2016 40 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS CONTINUED ACQUISITION OF AS SALAMA HOSPITAL LLC ASH CONTINUED Fair value recognised on acquisition Details of the provisional goodwill calculated as of 31 December 2016 are as follows US$000 Assets Property, plant and equipment 3,433 Inventories 1,446 Accounts receivable 12,242 Other receivables 800 Cash and bank balances 1,298 19,219 Liabilities Borrowings 1,334 Accounts payable 4,929 Other payables 4,030 10,293 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 8,926 Non-controlling interests 2,678 Goodwill arising on acquisition 21,767 Purchase consideration transferred 28,015 The acquisition of ASH has resulted in a provisional goodwill of US$21.8m The Group has elected to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree using the proportionate method, resulting in an NCI on acquisition of US$2.7m being 30% of the identifiable net assets at fair value.
The transaction costs of US$142,000 have been expensed and are included under transaction costs in respect of business combinations in the consolidated income statement.
ACQUISITION OF AL ZAHRA HOSPITAL AL ZAHRA On 14 December 2016, the Group agreed to acquire a 100% controlling stake in the voting shares of Al Zahra, subject to the completion of all the conditions precedent referred in SPA.
Al Zahra is one of the largest private hospitals in the UAE, operating 137 active inpatient beds, serving approximately 400,000 outpatients and 23,000 inpatient bed days per year.
This asset would be difficult to replicate and considerably expands NMCs capacity in the region.
It complements NMCs existing network of seven out-patient medical centers in Sharjah, the third most populous emirate in the UAE, and further strengthens its position as the largest private healthcare provider in the UAE and GCC region.
NMC acquired control of Al Zahra on 13 February 2017, the date on which all the conditions precedent were met, meaning that control has passed to the Group and full consolidation of results will commence from that date.
This date is 31 January 2017, with full consolidation commencing on 1 February 2017.
We are not aware of any material transactions in the period between 01 February 2017 and 13 February 2017.
The total purchase consideration was US$560.9m including the Real Estate Land and Building amounting to US$100m.
Total consideration for the transaction has been done under consideration of the acquired business and the Real Estate.
Based on the preliminary fair value exercise, provisional Brand of US$3.5m has been identified.
142 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements 40 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS CONTINUED ACQUISITION OF AL ZAHRA HOSPITAL AL ZAHRA CONTINUED Fair value recognised on acquisition Details of the provisional goodwill calculated as of 31 January 2017, are as follows US$000 Assets Intangible assets 3,539 Property, plant and equipment 115,027 Inventories 6,668 Accounts receivable 42,129 Other receivables 1,017 Cash and bank balances 6,095 174,475 Liabilities Accounts payable 22,750 Other payables 5,826 28,576 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 145,899 Goodwill arising on acquisition 414,950 Purchase consideration transferred 560,849 The acquisition of Al Zahra has resulted in a provisional goodwill of US$415.0m.
No other fair value adjustments relating to other assets or liabilities have been noted.
Their fair values have provisionally been assessed as equalling their book values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill represents the future business potential and profit growth of the Al Zahra.
It comprises all of the intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, the customer service, future client relationships, the presence in geographic markets, the synergies that Al Zahra & NMC will obtain.
The transaction costs of US$3,173,000 have been expensed and are included under transaction costs in respect of business combinations in the consolidated income statement.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 143
