184 OTHER INFORMATION ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Additional financial information Foreign exchange The Groups global corporate income tax contribution Foreign exchange rate movements influence the reported income Around 85% of the Groups underlying profit before tax excluding statement, the cash flow and closing net debt balance.
The average joint ventures and associates is generated in the UK, the US, and spot rates for the principal trading currencies of the Group are Germany, Norway, Finland and Singapore.
This is lower than 2015 shown in the table below: 95% due to losses in the Marine businesses.
The remaining profits are generated across more than 40 other countries.
This reflects the 2016 2015 Change fact that the majority of the Groups business is undertaken, and Year end spot rate 1.23 1.48 -17% employees are based, in the above countries.
USD per GBP Average spot rate 1.36 1.53 -11% In common with most multinational groups the total of all profits Year end spot rate 1.17 1.36 -14% EUR per GBP in respect of which corporate income tax is paid is not the same as Average spot rate 1.22 1.38 -12% the consolidated profit before tax reported on page 115.
The main reasons for this are: The Groups approach to managing its tax affairs i t he consolidated income statement is prepared under adopted IFRS whereas tax is paid on the profits of each Group company, Introduction which are determined by local accounting rules: Rolls-Royce is committed to i complying with laws in a responsible ii acc ounting rules require certain income and costs relating toour manner and ii building and maintaining professional and commercial activities to be eliminated from, or added to, the constructive working relationships with tax authorities based on aggregate of all the profits of the Group companies when principles of mutual transparency and trust.
preparing the consolidated income statement consolidation These commitments, which are explained in more detail below, adjustments : and apply to all countries and all employees.
iii specific tax rules including exemptions or incentives 1.
Tax planning asdetermined by the tax laws in each country.
The Group manages tax costs through maximising the tax The Groups total corporation tax payments in 2016 were 157m.
efficiency of business transactions which includes taking advantage The level of tax paid in each country is impacted by the above.
of available tax incentives and exemptions.
This must be done in a Inmost cases, i and ii are only a matter of timing and therefore way which is aligned with the Groups commercial objectives and tax will be paid in an earlier or later year.
As a result they only have meets its legal obligations and ethical standards.
It must also be anegligible impact on the Groups underlying tax rate, which, done in a way that gives a tax result the Group reasonably believes excluding joint ventures and associates, would be 37.5% is not contrary to the clear intentions of the legislation concerned.
Theunderlying tax rate including joint ventures and associates can be found on pages 16 and 36.
Relationships with tax authorities tax accounting, details of which can be found in note 5 to the The Group is committed to building constructive working Consolidated Financial Statements.
The impact of iii will often be relationships with tax authorities based on a policy of full disclosure permanent depending on the relevant tax law.
in order to remove uncertainty in its business transactions and Further information on the tax position of the Group can be found allow the authorities to review possible risks.
as follows: Where appropriate and possible, the Group enters into consultation Audit Committee report page 98 The Group Tax Director gave with tax authorities to help shape proposed legislation and future a presentation to the Audit Committee during the year which tax policy.
covered various matters including tax risks and how they are 3.
Transfer pricing managed: The Group seeks to price transactions between Rolls-Royce group Note 1 to the Consolidated financial statements pages 124 and companies as if they were between unrelated parties, in compliance 126 Details of key areas of uncertainty and accounting policies with the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and the laws of the for tax: relevant jurisdictions.
Note 5 to the Consolidated financial statements pages 137 to 139 4.
Governance Details of the tax balances in the Consolidated financial statements together with a tax reconciliation.
This explains the The Board has approved this approach.
main drivers of the tax rate.
The Group Audit Committee oversees the Groups tax affairs and At this stage we expect these items to continue to influence the risks through periodic reviews.
The reported tax rate is more difficult to The Groups governance framework is used to manage tax risks, forecast due to the volatility of significant items in reported profits, establish controls and monitor their effectiveness.
in particular the net unrealised fair value changes to derivative contracts.
The Group Tax Director is responsible for ensuring that appropriate policies, processes and systems are in place and that the global tax team has the required skills and support to implement this approach.
OTHER INFORMATION Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION 185 and undrawn borrowing facilities of 2.3bn.
Circa 170m of the Investments and capital expenditure facilities mature in 2017.
The Group subjects all major investments and capital expenditure The maturity profile of the borrowing facilities is regularly reviewed to a rigorous examination of risks and future cash flows to ensure to ensure that refinancing levels are manageable in the context of that they create shareholder value.
All major investments, including the business and market conditions.
There are no rating triggers in the launch of major programmes, require Board approval.
any borrowing facility that would require the facility to be accelerated or repaid due to an adverse movement in the Groups The Group has a portfolio of projects at different stages of their credit rating.
The Group conducts some of its business through a lifecycles.
Discounted cash flow analysis of the remaining life number of joint ventures.
A major proportion of the debt of these ofprojects is performed on a regular basis.
joint ventures is secured on the assets of the respective companies Sales of engines in production are assessed against criteria in and is non-recourse to the Group.
This debt is further outlined in theoriginal development programme to ensure that overall value note 11. isenhanced.
Credit rating Financial risk management Rating Outlook Grade The Board has established a structured approach to financial risk Moodys Investors Service A3 Stable Investment management.
The Financial risk committee Frc is accountable for Standard & Poors BBB Stable Investment managing, reporting and mitigating the Groups financial risks and exposures.
These risks include the Groups principal counterparty, The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investors Service and currency, interest rate, commodity price, liquidity and credit rating Standard & Poors for independent long-term credit ratings.
Atthe risks outlined in more depth in note 17.
The Frc is chaired by the date of this report, the Group maintained investment grade ratings Chief Financial Officer.
The Group has a comprehensive financial from both agencies.
risk policy that advocates the use of financial instruments to manage and hedge business operations risks that arise from As a capital-intensive business making long-term commitments movements in financial, commodities, credit or money markets.
toour customers, the Group attaches significant importance TheGroups policy is not to engage in speculative financial tomaintaining or improving the current investment grade transactions.
The Frc sits quarterly to review and assess the key creditratings.
risksand agree any mitigating actions required.
Accounting Capital structure The Consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, m 2016 2015 as adopted by the EU.
Total equity 1,864 5,016 Cash flow hedges 107 100 No new accounting standards had a material impact in 2016.
Group capital 1,971 5,116 Theimpact of changes to IFRS, in particular IFRS 15 Revenue from Net debt 225 111 Contracts with Customers which have not been adopted in 2016 isincluded within the accounting policies in note 1.
Operations are funded through various shareholders funds, bank borrowings, bonds and notes.
The capital structure of the Group Share price reflects the judgement of the Board as to the appropriate balance of funding required.
Funding is secured by the Groups continued During the year, the share price increased by 16% from 575p access to the global debt markets.
Borrowings are funded in various to668p, compared to a 12% increase in the FTSE aerospace and currencies using derivatives where appropriate to achieve a defence sector and a 14% increase in the FTSE 100.
The Companys required currency and interest rate profile.
The Boards objective is share price ranged from 504p in February 2016 to 826p inJuly 2016. to retain sufficient financial investments and undrawn facilities to ensure that the Group can both meet its medium-term operational commitments and cope with unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
The Group holds cash and short-term investments which, together with the undrawn committed facilities, enable it to manage its liquidity risk.
During the year the Group extended the maturity of the 1,500m committed bank borrowing facility from 2020 to 2021.
The Group also added a further 500m committed bank borrowing facility with a maturity of 2019.
Both of these facilities were undrawn at the period end.
At the year end, the Group retained aggregate liquidity of 5.1bn, including cash and cash equivalents of 2.8bn
