Financial Statements 171 Overview Strategic Report Governance Shareholder Information donations of small numbers of shares which are uneconomic to sell on their Useful historical information own.
Shares which have been donated to ShareGift are aggregated and sold Share history of the Company when practicable, with the proceeds passed on to a wide range of UK charities.
On 20 August 2007, the ordinary share capital was consolidated on the ShareGift can also help with larger donations of shares.
Further details about 1 basis of 12 new ordinary shares of 27 12 pence for every 13 ordinary ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
org or by writing shares of 25 pence held on the 17 August 2007.
A special dividend of to ShareGift at 17 Carlton House Terrace, London, SW1Y 5AH, telephone: 53 pence per share was paid in connection with the consolidation on 44 0 207 930 3737.
On 4 March 2009, a rights issue was announced on the basis of 12 new Dividends ordinary shares for every existing share held on 17 March 2009 at a A requirement of the REIT regime is that a REIT must distribute to shareholders 1 subscription price of 10 pence per share.
Each 27 12 pence ordinary share by way of dividend at least 90 per cent of its profits from its tax-exempt in issue was sub-divided and re-classified into one ordinary share of one UK property rental business calculated under UK tax principles after the 1 pence each and one deferred share of 26 12 pence each.
The deferred deduction of interest and capital allowances and excluding chargeable gains.
shares were created for technical reasons in order to maintain the Such distributions are referred to as Property Income Distributions, or PIDs.
aggregate nominal value of the Companys share capital upon sub-division Any further distributions may be paid as ordinary dividends or PIDs, which are of its ordinary shares.
The very limited rights attached to the deferred derived from profits earned by its UK, non-REIT taxable business, as well as its shares rendered them effectively valueless and they were cancelled on overseas operations.
In relation to the acquisition of Brixton plc, on 24 August 2009, SEGRO SCRIP Dividend plc undertook a share consolidation, open offer and private placing.
Shareholders approved the re-introduction of a scrip dividend option SCRIP On 31 July 2009, every 10 ordinary shares of one pence each were in respect of cash dividends including those treated as Property Income consolidated into one ordinary share of 10 pence each and, 0.10484 open Distributions at the 2015 AGM.
Subject to the Board deciding to offer a offer shares of 10 pence each were offered to every shareholder of SEGRO SCRIP, the SCRIP runs for three years ending on the earlier of 28 April 2018 plc who, on 13 July 2009, held 10 ordinary shares of one pence each.
and the beginning of the third AGM of the Company following 29 April 2015.
The acquisition of Brixton was conducted by a scheme of arrangement.
It allows shareholders who elect to receive the SCRIP, to take their final and Brixton shareholders were offered 0.175 consideration shares of 10 pence interim dividends in shares rather than cash.
Details of the SCRIP together with each in SEGRO plc for each Brixton share held.
information on how shareholders can elect to receive it, are available on the On 2 September 2016, the Company placed 74,770,950 new ordinary Companys website www.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP shares at a price of 435 pence by way of an equity placing.
The shares has been suspended.
were issued and admitted to the Official List of the Financial Conduct Withholding tax PIDs Authority and to trading on the main market for listed securities of the SEGRO is required to withhold tax at source from its PIDs at the basic tax rate London Stock Exchange plc on 6 September 2016.
Total gross proceeds of 20 per cent.
UK shareholders need take no immediate action unless they approximately 325m were raised from the placing.
qualify for exemption as described below and will receive with each dividend payment a tax deduction certificate stating the amount of tax deducted.
Shareholder enquiries If you have any questions about your shareholding or if you require further UK shareholders who fall into one of the classes of shareholder able to claim an guidance e. g. to notify a change of address please contact our Registrar, exemption from withholding tax may be able to receive a gross PID payment Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex if they have submitted a valid relevant Exemption Declaration form, either as BN99 6DA, telephone 44 0 371 384 2186.
Alternatively, you can a beneficial owner of the shares, or as an intermediary if the shares are not check your shareholding and access dividend information by registering at registered in the name of the beneficial owner, to Equiniti.
co. uk, or you can securely send queries via the website by Declaration form is available at www.
com under Investors Shareholder visiting https: help.
A valid declaration form, once submitted, will continue to apply to future payments of PIDs until rescinded, and so it is a shareholders Electronic communications responsibility to notify SEGRO if their circumstances change and they are no Shareholders have the opportunity to elect to receive shareholder longer able to claim an exemption from withholding tax.
communications electronically, e. g. Annual Reports, Notice of the Annual Shareholders resident outside the UK may be able to claim a partial refund of General Meeting and Proxy Forms.
You can elect to receive email notifications withholding tax either as an individual or as a company from HMRC, subject of shareholder communications by registering at www.
co. uk to the terms of a double tax treaty, if any, between the UK and the country in where you can also set up a bank mandate to receive dividends directly to which the shareholder is resident.
your bank account and to submit proxy votes for shareholder meetings.
Receiving the Companys communications electronically allows the Company Ordinary dividends to communicate with its shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, cost Ordinary, non-PID dividends will be treated in exactly the same way by effective and timely manner.
shareholders as ordinary dividends paid before the Company became a REIT.
From 6 April 2016 the notional 10 per cent tax credit has been abolished and AGM replaced with a tax free dividend allowance, which will apply to the ordinary, The 2017 AGM will be held on 20 April 2017 at RSA House, 8 John Adam non-PID dividends received by UK resident shareholders who are subject to Street, London WC2N 6EZ.
This allowance does not apply to the PID element of dividends.
ShareGift Further information is available from HMRC at www.
uk government ShareGift is a charity registered under the name The Orr Mackintosh publications  .
Foundation, registered charity number 1052686 which specialises in accepting
