Governance 105 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess a Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Governance section of the Annual Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board David Sleath Soumen Das Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 16 February 2017 16 February 2017 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 106 Financial Statements In this section we present our financial statements for the year, presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
In this section: Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SEGRO plc 107 Group Income Statement 113 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 113 Balance Sheets 114 Statements of Changes in Equity 115 Cash Flow Statements 117 Notes to the Financial Statements 118 Five-Year Financial Results 169 Financial Information 170 Shareholder Information 171 Glossary of Terms 172 Financial Statements 107 Overview Strategic Report Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SEGRO plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: SEGRO plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2016: the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year then ended: the Group and Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context This is our first year as auditors of SEGRO plc and therefore we spent additional audit effort on, for example, opening balances and hedging arrangements.
The primary measurement attribute of the Group is the carrying value of property investments which represent the Groups most significant asset.
Valuation of investment property is subjective and involves key judgements that take into account current market conditions.
The nature of the Groups business means it can enter into large and or complex transactions which by definition require audit effort to deal with their size and complexity.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 61 million which represents 1% of total assets.
Materiality Specific Group materiality, applied to adjusted profit before tax: 8 million which represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
First year audit procedures on opening balances and hedging arrangements A full scope audit on all significant components within the Group, and the following joint ventures: SEGRO European Audit scope Logistics Partnership SELP and Airport Property Partnership APP.
Areas of Accounting for large and or complex transactions including: focus acquisitions and disposals of investment property issuance of share capital: and establishment of the Roxhill Joint Venture.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 108 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SEGRO plc continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Assessing the Valuers expertise and objectivity Valuation of investment properties We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read their terms of engagement with the Group Refer to page 79 Audit Committee Report and Financial to determine whether there were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have Statements including notes to the Financial Statements: Note 1, imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered fee and other contractual arrangements Significant accounting policies: Note 15, Investment property: that might exist between the Group and the Valuers.
We found no evidence to suggest that the objectivity and Note 30, Property valuation techniques and related of the Valuers was compromised.
Testing the valuations The Groups investment properties were carried at 4,714m as at 31 December 2016 and a total realised and unrealised Assumptions and capital movement: We obtained details of every property held by the Group and set an expected range for yield and capital property gain of 246m was recognised in the Group income statement.
We focused on this area due to the existence of value movement, determined by reference to published benchmarks and using our experience and knowledge of the market.
significant judgement, coupled with the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property valuations when We then obtained and read the CBRE valuation reports for every property.
We determined, based on our aggregated could result in material misstatement.
expertise and experience, that the valuation approach for each was in accordance with RICS standards and suitable for use in determining the carrying value for the financial statements.
The portfolio includes warehouses and light industrial buildings, including warehouses used as data centres and for logistics We compared the investment yields used by the Valuers to the range of expected range of yields and the operations.
These are concentrated in the UK, France, Germany, year on year capital movement to our expected range.
We also considered the reasonableness of other Italy and Poland.
The remainder of the portfolio is located assumptions that are not so readily comparable with published benchmarks, such as Estimated Rental Value.
across other European countries including Spain, Belgium, the We attended meetings with management and the Valuers, at which the valuations and the key Netherlands and the Czech Republic.
Our work covered the valuation of every property in the Group, The portfolio includes completed investments and properties but the discussions with management and the Valuers focused on the largest properties in the portfolio under construction.
The methodology applied in determining and those where the assumptions used and or year on year capital value movement suggested a possible the valuation is set out in notes 15 and 30 of the financial outlier versus externally published market data for the relevant sector.
Where assumptions were outside the expected range or otherwise appeared unusual, and or valuations The valuation of the Groups portfolio is inherently subjective showed unexpected movements, we undertook further investigations and, when necessary, held further due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each discussions with the Valuers and obtained evidence to support explanations received.
The valuation property, its location and the expected future rentals for that commentaries provided by the Valuers and the supporting evidence, enabled us to consider the property particular property.
For developments, factors include projected specific factors that had or may have had an impact on value, including recent comparable transactions costs to complete, time until practical completion and the ability where appropriate.
We also satisfied ourselves that for properties where there could be alternative use to let if no pre-let agreement is in place.
opportunities, this had been appropriately taken into account.
Valuations are carried out by third party valuers, CBRE Ltd the Information and standing data: Valuers.
The Valuers were engaged by the Directors, and We tested the standing data the Group provided to the Valuers for use in the performance of the performed their work in accordance with the Royal Institute valuation.
This involved re-performing controls over the input of lease data for a sample of leases and of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional testing, on a sample basis, the accuracy of lease and other property information.
The Valuers used by the Group have considerable properties we also confirmed that the supporting information for construction contracts and budgets experience of the markets in which the Group operates.
was consistent with the Groups records, for example by inspecting original construction contracts.
For The valuations take into account the property-specific developments, capitalised expenditure was tested on a sample basis to invoices, and budgeted costs to complete were compared to supporting evidence for example construction contracts.
information referred to above including the current tenancy agreements and rental income, condition and location of the We agreed the amounts per the valuation reports to the accounting records and from there we agreed the property, future rental prospects, as well as prevailing market related balances through to the financial statements.
Other factors that could affect valuations this year: We noted that the Valuers did not include any market uncertainty clauses for either UK or European property valuations, although such clauses were included at the half-year in the immediate aftermath of the UKs EU Referendum.
We considered this to be reasonable and in line with current market practice among valuers, there being a sufficient level of transaction activity including in the period since the Referendum to support valuations.
We also checked that the Valuers had appropriately reflected changes to transfer land taxes in the UK and France which came into effect in 2016.
Overall outcome It was evident from our interaction with management and the Valuers, and from our review of the valuation reports, that close attention had been paid to each propertys individual characteristics and we concluded that the year end carrying values were supportable and reflected appropriately in the financial statements.
Financial Statements 109 Overview Strategic Report Governance Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Large and or complex transactions For each transaction, we held discussions with management and obtained supporting documentation as necessary to ensure that we understood the nature of the transaction.
We assessed the proposed Refer to page 80 Audit Committee Report and Financial Statements including notes to the Financial Statements: Note 1, accounting treatment in relation to the Groups accounting policies and relevant IFRSs.
Significant accounting policies: Note 15, Investment property.
Acquisitions and disposals For acquisitions and disposals of investment properties, we obtained and reviewed the key supporting There were a number of transactions during the year which documentation such as Sales and Purchase Agreements and completion statements.
Consideration warranted particular additional audit focus due to the magnitude received or paid was agreed to bank statements and deferred consideration postings if applicable.
For the of the transactions and or the potential for complex contractual disposal of assets to SELP, we additionally tested the fair value of assets used in determining the transaction terms that introduce judgement into how they were accounted price.
No material issues were found as a result of these procedures.
We also considered and concurred for.
Key transactions subject to additional audit focus were: with the accounting treatments adopted by management.
acquisition of investment property assets for 254 million: Share capital issuance disposal of investment property assets for 589 million: For the share capital issue, we examined placing documents, resolutions passed by the Board and cash raising of 325 million via issuance of share capital: and receipts.
establishment of the Roxhill Joint Venture.
Establishment of Joint Venture Since this was the year of establishment of the Roxhill joint venture, we spent time in understanding the transaction and the accounting entries which it would drive.
Our work focused on: Classification as joint venture: We inspected the sale and purchase agreement SPA to check that there was a single agreement with joint control established.
We were satisfied based on our inspection that it was appropriate to present the arrangement as a joint venture in SEGROs Groups financial statements.
Recognition and measurement of the asset within the Joint Venture: We assessed the analysis produced by management in order to determine whether the amounts paid to secure land options should be recognised as an asset.
Managements assessment that it is probable that economic benefit will flow in the future as a result of these payments appeared reasonable in light of current market conditions, supporting the carrying value at the year-end.
First year audit Opening balances As part of our review of the predecessor auditors working papers we obtained evidence for the opening As this was our first year as auditors of the Group we spent additional time in a number of areas so as to ensure that we position at the start of our first year as auditors.
We then planned our audit to provide sufficient evidence on the closing balances taking into account this work.
In particular: Hedging arrangements We arranged meetings with the predecessor auditor to The Group seeks to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates and to foreign exchange risk through perform a review of their working papers: a combination of Sterling interest rate swaps, Euro interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
We tested We performed an assessment of the Group and Company the valuation of these derivatives by re-performing the valuations using independent data sources.
We also accounting policies and the prior year financial statements: evaluated the accounting treatment and disclosures for hedging arrangements reflected in the Groups and financial statements and concluded that they were in line with IFRS.
Where hedge accounting had been We held discussions with management across multiple applied in respect of instruments that hedge investments in foreign subsidiaries we read managements areas of the business to ensure that we obtained a full hedge effectiveness documentation.
We also checked the timing of the resulting cash flows and the impact understanding of the Groups control environment and on the Groups liquidity.
We carried out extended audit procedures on two areas of the financial statements: opening balances and the Groups hedging arrangements.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group operates a common IT environment, processes and controls for rental income and payroll across all its reported segments and the SELP and APP Joint Ventures.
The related balances were therefore audited in full by the Group audit team from the UK, using Computer Assisted Audit Techniques for the work on revenue.
The Groups valuation, treasury and tax functions are also based at the corporate centre in the UK and audit work on these functions was performed by the Group audit team.
Additional procedures were performed by audit teams on location in each business unit, such that the total testing programme provided sufficient audit evidence over all financial statement line items.
Taking into account the segments and Joint Ventures subject to a full scope audit, the centralised and other testing performed, coverage over the Group Balance Sheet and Group Income Statement was as follows: Assets 99% coverage Liabilities 96% coverage Income 100% coverage Expenditure 100% coverage SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 110 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SEGRO plc continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 61 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied The primary measurement attribute of the Group is the carrying value of property investments.
On this basis, we set an overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
In addition, we set a specific materiality level of 8 million, equating to 5% of adjusted profit before tax, for items within adjusted profit before tax.
In arriving at this judgement we had regard to the fact that the adjusted profit before tax is a secondary financial indicator of the Group refer to note 2 of the financial statements page 123 where the term is defined in full.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 53, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 63 to 84 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 63 to 84 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the information referred to above in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Financial Statements 111 Overview Strategic Report Governance ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 105, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code We have no exceptions to report.
the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 77 to 84, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions to report.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 105 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have We have nothing material to add or to carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, draw attention to.
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on pages 56 to 57 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how We have nothing material to add or to they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be draw attention to.
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 112 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SEGRO plc continued Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 105, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other personto whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Craig Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 16 February 2017 The maintenance and integrity of the SEGRO plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
