SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 172 Further Information Glossary of Terms APP: Airport Property Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture between SEGRO and Passing rent: The annual rental income currently receivable on a property Aviva Investors.
as at the Balance Sheet date which may be more or less than the ERV.
Excludes rental income where a rent free period is in operation.
Completed portfolio: The completed investment and trading properties Excludes service charge income which is netted off against service including properties held throughout the period, acquisitions during the charge expenses.
period and developments completed during the period, including the Groups share of joint ventures completed investment and trading properties.
Pre-let: A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
Current development pipeline: The Groups current programme of REIT: A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as a Real Estate developments authorised or in the course of construction at the Balance Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the UK, such entities must be listed on Sheet date.
a recognised stock exchange, must be predominantly engaged in property investment activities and must meet certain ongoing qualifications.
SEGRO plc EPRA: The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry and its UK subsidiaries achieved REIT status with effect from 1 January 2007. body, which has issued Best Practices Recommendations in order to provide consistency and transparency in real estate reporting across Europe.
Rent roll: See Passing Rent.
Estimated cost to completion: Costs still to be expended on a development or SELP: SEGRO European Logistics Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture between redevelopment to practical completion, including attributable interest.
SEGRO and Public Sector Pension Investment Board PSP Investments.
Estimated rental value ERV : The estimated annual market rental value of SIIC: Socits dinvestissements Immobiliers Cotes are the French equivalent lettable space as determined biannually by the Groups valuers.
This will of UK Real Estate Investment Trusts seeREIT.
normally be different from the rent being paid.
Speculative development: Where a development has commenced prior to a Gearing: Net borrowings divided by total shareholders equity excluding lease agreement being signed in relation to that development.
intangible assets and deferred tax provisions.
Square metres sq m : The area of buildings measurements used in this analysis.
Gross rental income: Contracted rental income recognised in the period in the The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is onesquare metre 10.7639 Income Statement, including surrender premiums.
Lease incentives, initial costs square feet.
and any contracted future rental increases are amortised on a straight line basis Takeback: Rental income lost due to lease expiry, exercise of break option, over the lease term.
Headline rent: Passing rent once rent-free periods have expired.
Topped up net initial yield: Net initial yield adjusted to include notional rent in Hectares Ha : The area of land measurement used in this analysis.
respect of let properties which are subject to a rent free period at the valuation The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is 1 hectare 2.471 acres.
This is in accordance with EPRAs Best Practices Recommendations.
Investment property: Completed land and buildings held for rental income Total property return TPR : A measure of the ungeared return for the portfolio return and or capital appreciation.
and is calculated as the change in capital value, less any capital expenditure incurred, plus net income, expressed as a percentage of capital employed over Joint venture: An entity in which the Group holds an interest and which is the period concerned, as calculated by MSCI Real Estate and excluding land.
jointly controlled by the Group and one or more partners under a contractual arrangement whereby decisions on financial and operating policies essential to Total shareholder return TSR : A measure of return based upon share price the operation, performance and financial position of the venture require each movement over the period and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
Trading property: Property being developed for sale or one which is being held Loan to value LTV : Net borrowings divided by the carrying value of total for sale after development is complete.
property assets investment, owner occupied, trading properties and, at Yield on cost: The expected gross yield based on the estimated current market 31 December 2015, includes the Bath Road office portfolio categorised as rental value ERV of the developments when fully let, divided by the book Assets held for sale in the balance sheet.
This is reported on a look-through value of the developments at the earlier of commencement ofthe development basis including joint ventures at share.
or the balance sheet date plus future development costs and estimated finance MSCI-IPD: MSCI Real Estate calculates the IPD indices of real estate costs tocompletion.
Yield on new money: The yield on cost excluding the book value of land if the Net initial yield: Annualised current passing rent less non-recoverable land is owned by the Group in the reporting period prior to commencement of property expenses such as empty rates, divided by the property valuation the development.
Net rental income: Gross rental income less ground rents paid, net service charge expenses and property operating expenses.
Net true equivalent yield: The internal rate of return from an investment property, based on the value of the property assuming the current passing rent reverts to ERV and assuming the property becomes fully occupied over time.
It assumes that rent is received quarterly in advance.
The printer and paper mill are both accredited with ISO14001 Registered office Environmental Management System and are both Forest SEGRO plc Stewardship Council certified.
Cunard House CPI Colour is a Carbon Neutral printing company.
15 Regent Street London SW1Y 4LR Designed and produced by www.
com Registered in England and Wales Registered number 167591 Go online To keep up to date with SEGRO, you can source facts and figures about the Group through the various sections on our website and sign up for email alerts for fast communication ofbreaking news.
Financial reports, shareholder information and property analysis are frequently updated and our current share price isalways displayed on the Home Page.
As well as featuring detailed information about available property throughout the portfolio, www.
com now also includes a dedicated property search function making it easy for potential customers, or their agents, to find business space that fits their requirement exactly.
SEGROs performance in areas such as sustainability and customer careare also featured on the site, www.
Other publications Additional disclosures on our property portfolio can be found in the 2016 Property Analysis Report at www.
Forward-looking statements The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to SEGROs expectations and plans, strategy, management objectives, future developments and performances, costs, revenues and other trend information.
These statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond SEGROs ability to control or estimate precisely and which could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardlooking statements.
Certain statements have been made with reference to forecast process changes, economic conditions and the current regulatory environment.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of SEGRO are based upon the knowledge and information available to Directors on the date of this Annual Report.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and SEGROs shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, SEGRO does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement isbased.
Past share performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 SEGRO plc 44 Cunard House T 0 20 7451 9100 44 15 Regent Street F 0 20 7451 9150 London SW1Y 4LR www.
