DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES THE DIRECTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR PREPARING THE ANNUAL REPORT, THE REMUNERATION REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW AND REGULATIONS.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each Directors statement under the UK Corporate Governance Code financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and Parent The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Companys transactions and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8 accounting statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors and then apply them 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS consistently: Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
state that the Group and company has complied with IFRSs as adopted by The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and Companys website.
explained in the financial statements: and Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
is inappropriate to do so.
Each of the directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge the Annual Directors responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Report Transparency Rules Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 80 to presents information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 81 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and the Group and Company financial statements, which have been prepared in provides additional disclosures when compliance with the specific accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of requirements of IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups and Companys financial position and performance.
the Strategic Report contained on pages 41 to 76 of the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business A copy of the financial statements of the Group is placed on the Companys and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of website.
the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Brian Bickell Chris Ward Chief Executive Finance Director 29 November 2016 29 November 2016 112 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE
