SUMMARY REPORT BY THE VALUERS TO THE DIRECTORS OF SHAFTESBURY PLC In accordance with your instructions, we have undertaken a valuation of the In accordance with the provisions of VPGA 8 of the Red Book, in undertaking various commercial and residential freehold and long leasehold property our valuations, we have lotted together certain individual properties to form a interests as at 30th September 2016 the Valuation Date held by Shaftesbury separate property a Property or Properties in the manner we consider Carnaby Limited, Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown to be most likely to be adopted in the case of an actual sale.
We consider that Limited, Shaftesbury Soho Limited, Shaftesbury AV Limited, Shaftesbury CL lotting the properties together on the basis reflected in our valuations would Limited and Helcon Limited, which are subsidiary companies collectively allow a purchaser to capitalise on the estate management advantages and referred to as the Subsidiary Companies of Shaftesbury PLC the Company, opportunities available from such comprehensive ownership.
as referred to in our Valuation Reports dated 22 November 2016 our Reports.
A high proportion of the total value of the Subsidiary Companies properties Our Reports were prepared for accounts purposes.
and Properties is accounted for by properties and Properties situated in All properties have been subject to external inspections between February adjacent and or adjoining locations in four specific areas of the West End of and October 2016 and a number were subject to internal inspections.
London: Carnaby Street and its environs, Chinatown and the adjoining area immediately west of Wardour Street south of its junction with Shaftesbury We confirm that the valuations have been prepared in accordance with the Avenue, and the areas around Seven Dials in the western part of Covent appropriate sections of the RICS Professional Standards PS, RICS Global Garden and a block of properties to the east of the Central Covent Garden Valuation Practice Statements VPS, RICS Global Valuation Practice Piazza with its main frontage to Wellington Street.
These areas are all dominated by Guidance - Applications VPGAs and United Kingdom Valuation Standards retail and restaurant uses.
In our opinion, at the Valuation Date, this particular UKVS contained within the RICS Valuation - Professional Standards 2014, unusual confluence of ownership and use characteristics may cause some the Red Book.
It follows that the valuations are compliant with prospective purchasers to regard parts of the portfolio when combined as International Valuation Standards.
We confirm that we have sufficient current having a greater value than the aggregate of the individual values of the knowledge of the relevant markets, and the skills and understanding to undertake combined properties and Properties which make up those parts.
We also confirm that, where more than one valuer has contributed to the valuations, the requirements of PS 2.3.
7 of the As required by the provisions of the Red Book, in undertaking our valuations, Red Book have been satisfied.
Finally, we confirm that we have undertaken we have valued each property or Property separately, rather than valuing the the valuations acting as External Valuers, qualified for the purpose of the portfolio as a whole or in combinations of parts.
The total valuation figure valuations.
below is the aggregated value of the separate properties or Properties within the various categories of tenure referred to below.
In accordance with PS 2.8 and UKVS 4, we are required to make certain All valuations were on the basis of Fair Value.
We have assessed Fair Value in disclosures in connection with this valuation instruction and our relationship accordance with VPS 4.1.
Our opinion of the Fair Value of with the Company and the Subsidiary Companies.
Charles Smith is the each of the properties or Properties has been primarily derived using signatory of our Reports and has been the signatory of valuation reports comparable recent market transactions on arms length terms.
addressed to the Company and the Subsidiary Companies since 2013.
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung DTZ has been carrying out this valuation instruction We have not made any allowance for vendors sale costs nor for any tax for the Company, and now the Subsidiary Companies, for a continuous period liabilities which may arise upon the disposal of any of the properties or since 1996.
As well as preparing our Reports, we also undertake valuations of Properties.
We have made deductions to reflect purchasers normal certain of the properties referred to in our Reports for other purposes, such acquisition costs.
as secured lending and for inclusion in shareholders circulars.
A full explanation of the Assumptions made in our valuations and details of the On 1 September 2015, DTZ and Cushman & Wakefield C&W combined sources of information are contained within our Reports.
Notwithstanding our new branding, our legal entities We have measured certain of the properties, or parts of properties, either on have not changed, including their names.
Prior to 1 September 2015, there site or by scaling from floor plans.
The Company, its managing agents or had been no fee-earning instructions between DTZ and the Company or the professional advisers have provided us with the floor areas of the remaining Subsidiary Companies, other than valuation instructions, for in excess of three properties or parts of properties.
Prior to 1 September 2015, C&W were appointed as retail agents by Shaftesbury Soho Limited and Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited and these We have read some of the leases and related documents provided to us in instructions have continued since then.
respect of the commercial properties.
Where we have not read leases, we have relied on tenancy information provided by the Company, its managing The DTZ group became a stand-alone, private global property services agents or professional advisers.
company on 5 November 2014, following its sale to a consortium of investors led by TPG Capital Management.
On 1 September 2015, DTZ acquired Cushman & Wakefield and the combined group now trades under the Cushman & Wakefield brand.
Cushman & Wakefields financial year end is 31 December.
The proportion of fees payable by the Company to the Cushman & Wakefield group in the financial year to 31 December 2015 was less than 5%.
156 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 OTHER INFORMATION SUMMARY REPORT BY THE VALUERS CONTINUED Certain properties were subject to works of repair or refurbishment at 30th The contents of our Reports are confidential to Shaftesbury PLC, Shaftesbury September 2016, or were subject to outstanding retentions and fees in Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown respect of projects already completed at that date.
In these instances, the Limited, Shaftesbury Soho Limited, Shaftesbury AV Limited, Shaftesbury CL Company advised us of the amount of the outstanding costs.
The costs will be Limited and Helcon Limited, for the specific purpose to which they refer and borne by the Company as they are not recoverable from tenants.
We have are for their use only.
Consequently, and in accordance with current practice, reflected these costs in our valuations.
The total amount of such costs is no responsibility is accepted to any other party in respect of the whole or 30,002,100 and details of the individual sums are included in our Reports.
any part of the contents of our Reports or this summary report.
Before our Reports or this summary report, or any part thereof, are reproduced or referred As referred to above, we have lotted together certain individual properties to, in any document, circular or statement, and before their contents, or any to form a number of separate Properties.
In the case of five Properties which part thereof, are disclosed orally or otherwise to a third party, the valuers comprise a number of individual properties, the majority of such properties written approval as to the form and context of such publication or disclosure are held freehold but certain of them are held on long leases.
In order to must first be obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt, such approval is required divide our valuation of these Properties between the categories of freehold whether or not DTZ Debenham Tie Leung is referred to by name and whether and long leasehold, we have undertaken notional apportionments of value or not the contents of our Reports or this summary report are combined between the freehold elements and the long leasehold elements which with others.
together comprise the relevant Properties.
The amounts arising from these notional apportionments of value have been included in the figures representing the freehold and long leasehold categories below.
The amounts arising from Charles Smith MRICS the notional apportionments do not themselves represent the Fair Value of International Partner the two elements.
RICS Registered Valuer The Subsidiary Companies own a number of properties on a freehold basis For and on behalf of where they also hold long leasehold interests within the freehold and have DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited not merged the interests.
For the purposes of the freehold long leasehold 125 Old Broad Street split below, we have included such properties within the freehold category.
London EC2N 1AR Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the aggregates of the Fair Values, as at 30th September 2016, of the freehold and long leasehold As of 1 September 2015, DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and Cushman & Wakefield property interests owned by the Company and the Subsidiary Companies, have combined under a new common brand.
Notwithstanding our new branding, subject to the Assumptions and comments in our Reports dated 22 our underlying legal entities have not changed, including their names.
November 2016, were as follows: Freehold Properties 2,864,815,000 Two billion, eight hundred and sixty-four million, eight hundred and fifteen thousand pounds Long leasehold 258,795,000 Properties Two hundred and fifty-eight million, seven hundred and ninety-five thousand pounds 3,123,610,000 Total Three billion, one hundred and twenty-three million, six hundred and ten thousand pounds A long lease is one with an unexpired term in excess of 50 years.
OTHER INFORMATION Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 157
