Financial information AIFMD Disclosures Report on remuneration and quantitative remuneration disclosure Other risk disclosures The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD The risk disclosures relating to risk framework and risk profile requires certain disclosures to be made with regard to the of the Group are set out in note 26 to the notes to the financial remuneration policy paid by the Companys Alternative statements on pages 65 to 70.
Investment Fund Manager AIFM to its staff.
This information Pre investment disclosures isavailable upon request, by writing to the Company Secretary The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available at6 Kean Street, London, WC2B 4AS.
to investors in an Alternative Investment Fund AIF before they Leverage invest and requires that material changes to this information The Group may employ leverage and borrow cash in accordance be disclosed in the annual report of the AIF.
An investor report with its stated investment policy or investment strategy.
The use relating to AIFMD Article 23 Supplemental Disclosures, setting of borrowings and leverage has attendant risks and can, in certain out information on the Groups investment strategy and policies, circumstances, substantially increase the adverse impact to which leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts the Groups investment portfolio may be subject to.
of interest and other shareholder information is available on the Groups website at www.
For the purposes of this disclosure, leverage is any method by which the Groups exposure is increased, whether through There have been no material changes to this information borrowing of cash or securities, or leverage embedded in requiring disclosure.
foreign exchange forward contracts or by any other means.
The AIFMD requires that each leverage ratio be expressed as the ratio between a Groups exposure and its net asset value, and prescribes two required methodologies, the gross methodology and the commitment methodology as set out in AIFMD Level 2 Implementation Guidance, for calculating such exposure.
Using the methodologies prescribed under the AIFMD, the leverage of the Group is detailed in the table below: Commitment leverage as Gross leverage as at 9 December at 9 December 2016 2016 Leverage ratio 0.53 0.53 It should be noted that the Group has no gearing as the subordinated convertible debt was repaid in June 2016 and the loan facility has been cancelled.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 71
