Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements OTHER INFORMATION THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 161 GLOSSARY Adjusted EPRA earnings EPRA NAV Lease Adjusted EPRA earnings are prepared EPRA NAV is prepared on the basis Properties which are leased to Universities on the basis of EPRA earnings excluding recommended for real estate companies for a number of years and have no Unite the yield related element of the USAF by EPRA, the European Public Real Estate management presence.
This includes all property at market value but excludes the mark LSAV to market of interest rate swaps.
This is Adjusted EPRA earnings per share The London Student Accommodation recommended by EPRA as a measure The earnings per share based on adjusted Joint Venture LSAV is a joint venture of net assets.
between Unite and GIC, alongside UCC.
Both Unite and GIC have a 50% stake EPRA net asset value per share and LSAV has the same maturity date as Adjusted net debt The diluted NAV per share figure based UCC September 2022.
It is the primary The Groups debt, net of cash and on EPRA NAV.
vehicle through which Unite undertakes unamortised debt raising costs, excluding development activity in London and it the mark to market of interest rates swaps.
has right of first refusal over Unites London EPRA NNNAV development pipeline projects until such As EPRA NAV but includes both debt Adjusted net debt time as its capital investment targets are and interest rate swaps carried at market to property assets met.
LSAV and UCC were merged during value.
This is recommended by EPRA The adjusted net debt as a percentage 2012 and the new combined entity is as a spot fair value net asset measure.
of the value of Unite properties.
Financing costs Basis points BPS Net debt: EBITDA Gross financing costs net of interest A basis point is a term used to describe a The Group see-through debt, net of cash capitalised into developments and small percentage, usually in the context and unamortised debt raising costs and interest received on deposits.
excluding mark to market of interest rate swaps as a proportion of EBITDA.
Gross asset value Direct let The Groups wholly owned property Properties where short-hold tenancy Net initial yield NIY or yield portfolio together with the share of the agreements are made directly between The net operating income generated by Joint Ventures property portfolio.
a property expressed as a percentage of its value, taking into account notional Gross financing costs EBITDA acquisition costs.
This includes all interest paid by the The Groups EPRA earnings before Group, including those capitalised charging interest, tax, depreciation and Net operating income NOI into developments and operating amortisation.
The profit number is used to The rental income from rental properties lease rentals.
calculate the ratio to net debt.
less those operating costs directly related to the property, therefore excluding It includes all receipts and payments EPRA earnings central overhead.
under interest rate swaps whether they EPRA earnings are prepared on the basis are effective or ineffective under IFRS recommended for real estate companies as economically they all hedge interest Net rental growth by EPRA, the European Public Real Estate rate exposures.
The annual growth in net operating Association.
This excludes movements income measured on a like-for-like relating to changes in values of basis, ie excluding impact of completion Interest cover ratio ICR investment properties and interest rate and disposals.
The interest cover ratio is the income swaps and the related tax effects.
generated by a property as a multiple of the interest charge on the debt secured EPRA earnings per share on the property.
The earnings per share based on EPRA earnings.
162 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GLOSSARY CONTINUED Nominations Total income from Properties where Universities have managed portfolio entered into a contract to guarantee This measure indicates the overall scale occupancy.
The Universities nominate of the property portfolio that the Group students to live in the building and Unite manages.
It comprises rental and related enters into short-hold tenancies with income, totalling 304.9 million from the students.
properties owned by Unite and its co-investment vehicles.
Non-core assets Properties that do not fit with the Groups The Groups share of this gross income long-term investment strategy because of is shown in note 2.2 a. their location or their size.
USAF THE FUND Overhead efficiency The Unite UK Student Accommodation The Groups overhead efficiency Fund USAF is Europes largest fund that measure shows operating expenses, purely focuses on completed income net of management fees, as a proportion providing student accommodation of the total property portfolio.
The fund is an open-ended infinite life vehicle which has unique buying access to Unites Rental properties development pipeline.
Unite acts as Investment and completed properties fund manager for the fund, as well as whose construction has been completed owning a significant minority stake.
and are used by the Operations segment to generate net portfolio contribution.
Sale and leaseback Properties that have been sold to a third party investor then leased back to the Company.
Unite is also responsible for the management of these assets on behalf of the owner.
See-through See-through refers to the Groups wholly owned assets or liabilities in addition to the share of the joint ventures USAF and LSAV assets or liabilities.
