FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 1.
Basis of preparation Vectura Group plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered office is One Prospect West, Chippenham Wiltshire, SN14 6FH.
The Groups operations and principal activities are described in the Strategic Report.
The Group is defined as the Company, its subsidiaries and associates.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
These financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest 0.1m, unless otherwise stated.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange under the ticker VEC.
1.1 Significant events All-share merger with Skyepharma PLC Skyepharma On 10 June 2016, an all-share merger between Vectura and Skyepharma was implemented by way of a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement of Skyepharma.
The fully-diluted share capital of Skyepharma was exchanged for 266,073,504 newly issued Vectura shares and 52.1m of cash to settle the partial cash alternative.
As Skyepharma had 27.1m of cash on the acquisition-date balance sheet, the net cash outflow before transaction costs was 25.0m.
Vectura has consolidated Skyepharma from the date that control was obtained, being 10 June 2016.
Therefore, comparative information required to be included under IFRS is not presented on a like-for-like basis.
To allow for comparison to prior periods, certain unaudited proforma information has been made available in the Financial Review.
1.2 Accounting for the merger with Skyepharma the merger IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS3 requires all transactions even a merger of equals to be accounted for using the acquisition method which requires an acquirer and an acquiree to be identified.
For the purposes of IFRS 3, it has been determined that Vectura acquired Skyepharma because immediately following the merger the previous shareholders of Vectura owned 61.3% of the enlarged Group on a fully-diluted basis.
Furthermore, i Vectura shares were issued to replace Skyepharma shares: ii Skyepharma shares were fide-listed from the London Stock Exchange: iii Vectura contributed the majority of positions to the new Board: and iv the Vectura name was retained for the Group.
The acquisition method of accounting is applied to Skyepharma with assets and liabilities recognised at their fair value on the acquisition date, in accordance with IFRS 3.
An overview of the impact is provided below: 10 June 2016 m Net book value of Skyepharma assets acquired 48.5 Fair value uplifts 326.2 Fair value of Skyepharma assets acquired 374.7 Goodwill recognised 100.8 Consideration transferred 475.5 1.3 Accounting reference date and comparability of financial information The Group had previously prepared its consolidated financial statements to the accounting reference date of 31 March.
Following the merger, the Group has changed its accounting reference date to 31 December.
Accordingly, the current financial period is for the nine months ended 31 December 2016, whilst the comparative period is for the twelve months ended 31 March 2016.
These results include the consolidated performance of Skyepharma from 10 June 2016.
The comparative results are for a twelve-month period and do not include Skyepharma.
Certain line item descriptions within the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet have been amended following the merger.
In addition, IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires line items to be re-ordered where this is necessary to explain the elements of performance.
Where there are no materially significant reclassifications, a separate explanatory note has not been presented.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 103 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 1.
Basis of preparation continued 1.4 Critical accounting areas of judgement and estimation The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires a number of estimates, assumptions and exercise of judgements inapplying the Groups IFRS accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
Significant items of accounting judgement: 1.4.
1 Acquisition accounting and the fair value of purchased intangible assets In accordance with the criteria set out in IFRS 3, it has been determined that Vectura has acquired Skyepharma.
Accounting for business combinations requires the fair values of acquired net assets arising in a business combination to be determined and the purchase consideration allocated to underlying net assets of the acquirer and acquiree in relation to where post-deal synergies areexpected to arise.
This involves the use of valuation techniques which include assumptions about future cash flows associated with Skyepharmas intangible assets and those of previous acquisitions.
These estimates have been prepared based on the best information available to management and, where appropriate, in conjunction with advice from independent third-party valuation experts.
The actual performance of these assets and liabilities may differ from the valuations derived through this exercise.
2 Goodwill impairment In accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill arising on a business combination is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
This testing requires judgement as to the value in use of the cash-generating units CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
The actual performance of CGUs may differ from the valuations derived through this exercise.
Refer to note 13 Business combinations.
3 Revenue recognition relating to collaborative development arrangements The Group enters into a wide variety of collaborative agreements with its partners which may span several reporting periods and involve multiple revenue streams.
Significant judgements and estimates may be required in assessing the obligations under such contracts over time and the revenue allocated to the obligations in each period.
The recognition of milestone revenue income requires an assessment ofthe Groups future obligations under a given contract, whichdetermines the period over which the revenue is recognised.
4 Depreciation of flutiform supply chain assets Assets relating to the flutiform supply chain are depreciated on a units-of-production basis over their estimated useful lives from the time they are first available for use.
The estimate of units of production is a function of forecasted sales and any output produced for validation testing.
The life of the assets is considered a key judgement as it is heavily dependent on the Groups manufacturing partners contractual obligations and future intentions.
Should these change, the Groups estimate of depreciation could be materially altered.
The key estimates are set out below: 1.4.
5 Carrying value of intangible assets purchased through a business combination An intangible asset created through a business combination is recognised separately from goodwill if the asset is capable of being sold separately or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be reliably measured.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets separately fair valued on a business combination are carried at deemed cost, less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets relating to on-market products are normally amortised with reference to patent lives in the Groups main territories.
Intangible assets relating to development projects are normally amortised over the development phase up to planned approval and technology over the expected life of the assets associated with the relevant platform.
Carrying values ofintangible assets are reviewed for indications of impairment and are subject to a full impairment test at least annually.
6 Swiss pension benefits The Group operates a pension scheme in respect of its employees in Switzerland.
As some of the risks of the scheme match the criteria under IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised for a defined benefit scheme, the scheme is accounted for as a defined benefit plan.
Application ofIAS 19 involves estimates about uncertain future events based on advice received from independent actuaries.
7 Taxation and deferred taxation The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions and is required to estimate, after taking account of external professional advice, thecorporate tax in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The recognition of, and assessment of provisions against, tax benefits requires management judgement.
All provisions are based on managements interpretation of country-specific tax legislation and the likelihood of settlement.
1.5 Amendments to IFRS The following amendments to IFRS became mandatory in this reporting period.
The Group has applied the following standards and amendments for the first time for the reporting period commencing 1 April 2016: Disclosure initiative amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets: Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations amendments to IFRS 11: and Annual improvements to IFRS 2012 2014 cycle.
104 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Basis of preparation continued 1.5 Amendments to IFRS continued The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the current period or any prior period except for the following: Disclosure initiative amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements The following amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements have been applied to these financial statements: material information should not be obscured with immaterial information or by aggregating material items that have different naturesorfunctions: where a specific disclosure is required by IFRS, this need not be disclosed if the information is not material: and in the other comprehensive income section of a statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, the amendments require separate disclosures for associates and joint ventures movements.
Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment andIAS38Intangible Assets The amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment prohibit entities from using a revenue-based depreciation method for items ofproperty, plant and equipment.
The amendments to IAS 38 Intangible Assets introduce a rebuttable presumption that revenue is not an appropriate basis for amortisation charges.
This may be significant to the estimates associated with intangible assets in future periods.
Intangible assets are normally amortised with reference to associated patent lives, as opposed to cash flows, and hence adoption of the amendments is not expected to have a significant impact on amortisation.
1.6 New standards not yet adopted The IASB has published three new accounting standards relevant to the Group that will become mandatory in future periods.
These standards have not been early adopted in these consolidated financial statements.
The Groups initial assessment of the future impact of these new standards is as follows: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 The new financial instruments standard introduces changes to accounting for credit losses, including related disclosures.
The new standard also introduces changes to how financial assets are measured on an ongoing basis to align with the assets cash flow characteristics and the business model in which the asset is held.
The new standard was developed in response to concerns of investors and other stakeholders, both during and after the global financial crisis, that there was a need for more timely recognition of expected credit losses for loans and other financial instruments.
In measuring expected credit losses under the new standard, issuers will be required to use reasonable and supportable information that is available to them without undue cost or effort, including not only past events and current conditions, but also forecasts of future economic conditions.
As the Group does not have any complex financial instruments, this is not expected to impact on reported performance.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 The new revenue standard provides clearer and more detailed principles for revenue recognition and disclosure in a framework that is designed to improve comparability of revenue amounts over a range of industries, companies and geographical boundaries.
The standard can significantly change an issuers timing of recognition of revenue, among other changes.
Revenue is often not only a key performance measure in its own right, but also the starting point for other performance measures, such asoperating income, net income and earnings per share: key analytical ratios, such as margins, return on equity and return on assets: andvaluation metrics, such as revenue multiples and price-to-earnings ratios.
As a result, the new revenue standard has the potential to change not only an issuers revenue, but also its profit and investor analyses that depend on the financial statements.
Management is undertaking an assessment and at this stage does not expect the standard to have a significant impact on the Groups aggregated reported revenues.
IFRS 16 Leases Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 The new leases standard changes the previous lease accounting model so a lessee will now reflect more assets and liabilities arising from leases on its balance sheet.
This can substantially affect key financial ratios, including ratios related to debt covenants or debt-to-equity ratios.
The Group expects to recognise certain assets and liabilities on initial recognition of this standard, although it is not expected to have a major impact on the consolidated income statement as the Group only has four significant off-balance sheet leases classified as operating leases under current lease accounting requirements per IAS 17 Leases.
1.7 Non-GAAP measures In the reporting of financial information, theGroup uses certain non-statutory alternative performance measures that are not required under IFRS, the generally accepted accounting principles GAAP under which the Group reports.
The Group believes that these additional measures, which are also used internally, are useful to the users of the financial information to assist in the understanding of underlying business performance.
The principal non-GAAP measures which the Group uses are EBITDA and EBITDA per share.
EBITDA represents operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation, adding back charges for share-based payments and depreciation.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 105 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 2.
Significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of consolidation These consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated financial statements of Vectura Group plc, its subsidiaries and one equity-accounted associate for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has direct or indirect control.
The Company controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the activities of the entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Group and are fide-consolidated from the date thatcontrolceases.
Intercompany transactions and balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies are consistently applied throughout the Group.
2.2 Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control.
There is a rebuttable presumption within IAS 28 Associates that this is generally the case where the Group holds between 20% and 49.9% of voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
This method prescribes that investments are initially recognised at cost and are adjusted thereafter to recognise changes in the Groups share of the investees net assets, less distributions received and any impairments.
The Groups consolidated income statement reflects the Groups share of income or expense recognised bythe investee.
When the Groups share of losses in an equity-accounted investment equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments onbehalf of the other entity.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in these entities.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of any asset transferred.
Accounting policies of equity-accounted investees have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted bythe Group.
2.3 Foreign currency translation and transactions Foreign currency transactions, being transactions denominated in a currency other than an individual Group entitys functional currency, are translated into the relevant functional currencies using the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the underlying transactions.
Foreign currency gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities at period-end rates of exchange are recognised in the consolidated income statement, except when deferred in equity on intercompany net investment loans.
Non-monetary items arising from foreigncurrency transactions are not retranslated.
Exchange gains or losses on foreign currency transactions related to loans and borrowings not designated as permanent, technology andproduct licensing revenues and royalty revenues are recognised within net finance income.
Foreign exchange differences on all otherforeign currency transactions are recognised in the Groups consolidated income statement.
The income statements and cash flow statements of the Group undertakings expressed in currencies other than Sterling are translated toSterling using monthly average exchange rates which approximate the actual rates of the underlying transactions.
Assets and liabilities of Group undertakings are translated to Sterling at the exchange rates prevailing at thereporting date.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of overseas subsidiaries into the Groups presentational currency, permanent net investments in foreign entities and financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income and in the translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is sold or any borrowings forming part of the net investment are repaid, the associated exchange differences arereclassified to profit or loss, as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the operation to which the goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes per IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and translated at the closing rate, where the goodwill is not allocated toaSterling-based CGU.
Fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of theoperation and translated at the closing rate.
2.4 Revenue recognition Revenue represents the amount receivable for goods and services provided and royalties earned, net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue is recognised as follows: 2.4.
1 Royalty income Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis and represents income earned as a percentage of partner product sales in accordance with the terms of each agreement, net of amounts payable to other licensees.
106 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.4 Revenue recognition continued 2.4.
2 Signing and milestone payments Signing and milestone payments represent amounts earned for licences provided under licensing agreements, including up-front payments, milestone payments and technology access fees.
Revenues are recognised where they are non-refundable, the Groups obligations related to the revenues have been discharged and their collection is reasonably assured.
Refundable licensing revenue is treated as deferred until such time that the above criteria have been met.
Milestone payments relating to scientific or technical achievements are recognised as income when the milestone is accomplished.
Contingent sales milestones are recognised when the Group is virtually certain that the contingency has been achieved and recovery from the partner is assured.
The revenue is then recognised in the period in which the contingency was met.
3 Development services Development services revenues principally comprise contract product development and contract clinical trial manufacturing fees invoiced to third parties.
Revenues are recognised upon the completion of agreed tasks or spread over the duration of the task, as appropriate.
Development services revenues are recorded in the period to which they relate.
4 Product supply and device sales Product supply revenues principally comprise income derived from manufacturing and supply agreements.
Revenues are generally recognised upon transfer to the customer of significant risks and rewards, usually upon despatch of goods shipped where the sales price is agreed and collectability is reasonably assured.
Certain goods are sold on a bill-and-hold basis with the customer, whereby amounts have been invoiced and recognised in revenue, but the related goods sold have not yet been delivered to the customer.
Revenue from bill-and-hold transactions is recognised when the goods are complete and ready for shipment and the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred.
2.5 Segmental reporting The Group is managed on the basis of a single reportable segment, being the development and supply of pharmaceutical products.
This is consistent with the internal reporting provided to, and regularly reviewed by, the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments and has been identified as the Board.
2.6 Cost of sales Cost of sales is charged to the consolidated income statement in the period in which the cost is incurred.
Cost of sales comprises direct and indirect costs of manufacturing flutiform, oral tablets and inhalation devices.
2.7 Research and development R&D R&D expenditure comprises internal and third-party costs relating to feasibility studies, technical development, costs of chemistry, manufacturing and control development, clinical work, and the registration and maintenance of intellectual property.
These are charged to the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred unless the criteria for recognising development expenditure as an asset are met, inwhich case, development expenditure is capitalised.
Regulatory and other uncertainties generally mean that the criteria are not met.
2.8 Other income Other income mainly relates to government grants for qualifying UK R&D under the Research and Development Expenditure Credit RDEC scheme for large companies.
As a result of the merger, the Group qualifies for the large company scheme.
Such grants are taxable and are presented as other income.
Refer to the Financial Review.
There are no unfulfilled conditions or other contingencies attaching to these grants.
2.9 Exceptional items Exceptional items, which are presented on the face of the consolidated income statement, are those material items of income and expense which, because of their nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow users of the consolidated financial statements to understand the elements of financial performance in the period, to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess trends in performance.
2.10 Current taxation Taxation is chargeable on the profits of the period, together with deferred taxation.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or recoverable on the taxable income or loss for the period using the tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax in respect of previous periods.
2.11 Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts inthe financial statements, with the following exceptions: where the base of the asset is aligned for taxation and accounting purposes: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 107 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.11 Deferred taxation continued Deferred tax assets for R&D tax credits are recognised as the underlying activity occurs.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and legislation enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise, deferred tax isrecognised in the consolidated income statement.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
2.12 Business combinations The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for all business combinations, regardless of whether equity instruments or other assets are acquired.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the following: fair values of the assets transferred: liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquired business: equity interests issued by the group: fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement: and fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquired entitys net identifiable assets.
Acquisition-related costs except those directly attributable to the issue of shares are expensed as incurred.
The excess of the consideration transferred, amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity and acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the entity over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
2.13 Goodwill On acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, the fair value of the consideration is allocated between the identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities on a fair value basis, with any excess consideration representing goodwill.
At the acquisition date, goodwill is allocated to each CGU expected to benefit from the combination and held in the currency of the operations to which the goodwill relates.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually, or more frequently where there is an indication that the carrying value may be impaired.
Impairment is assessed by measuring the future cash flows of the CGU to which the goodwill relates versus the carrying value of the CGU.
An impairment loss is recognised for goodwill in the consolidated income statement when the carrying value of the CGU is less than its future cash flows.
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed in subsequent periods.
On disposal of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, the relevant goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
Foreign exchange differences on goodwill denominated in a different functional currency to the Groups presentational currency are recognised in the translation reserve.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the operation to which the goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes per IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and is translated at the closing spot rate.
2.14 Intangible assets An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised separately from goodwill if the asset is capable of being sold separately or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be reliably measured.
Development expenditure on internally-developed intangible assets is expensed in the period in which it is incurred except where the following criteria are met: the projects technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated: the availability of adequate technical and financial resources and an intention to complete the project have been confirmed: the correlation between development costs and future revenues has been established: and the economic benefit is expected to flow to the entity.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Patents, trademarks and licence agreements are amortised over their useful economic lives, usually between two and eight years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
108 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.15 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated todetermine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
When a reasonable and consistent basis ofallocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual CGUs, otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group ofCGUs for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments for the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
2.16 Property, plant and equipment PP&E Depreciation of PP&E is calculated to write off the cost less residual value over the expected useful life.
PP&E, other than for the flutiform supply chain, is depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Freehold property 20 to 50 years Laboratory, manufacturing and office equipment 3 to 10 years Property, plant and equipment for the flutiform supply chain is depreciated using the units-of-production method.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets under construction.
On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the consolidated income statement.
2.17 Inventories Inventories comprise goods held for resale and are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs include the direct costs and, where applicable, an attributable proportion of distribution overheads incurred in bringing inventories to their current location and condition.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
2.18 Leases Leases are classified as finance leases if they transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership, otherwise they are classified as operating leases.
Assets and liabilities arising on finance leases are initially recognised at fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The discount rate used in calculating the present value of the minimum lease payments is the interest rate implicit in the lease.
Finance charges under finance leases are allocated to each reporting period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the finance liability.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to profit on a straight-line basis.
Assets leased under operating leases are included in PP&E and non-current assets held for sale and are accordingly depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
2.19 Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be party to such provisions.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at either fair value or amortised cost.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Otherwise transaction costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The Group has the following categories of financial instruments: Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in-hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity ofthree months or less.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents, asdefined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made whenthere is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Balances are written off when the probability ofrecovery is assessed as being remote.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 109 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.19 Financial instruments continued Trade and other payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
Otherwise, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments throughout the expected life of the financial liability.
2.20 Provisions Provisions are liabilities where the exact timing and amount of the obligation is uncertain.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has apresent obligation legal or constructive as a result of past events, when an outflow of resources is probable to settle the obligation and when an amount can be reliably estimated.
Restructuring charges are provided in the period in which management has committed and communicated a plan and it is probable that an obligation has been incurred that can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses other than for unavoidable operating costs associated with an onerous lease.
Where the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted tocurrent values using appropriate rates of interest.
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in net finance income or expense.
2.21 Retirement obligations The costs of providing pensions under IAS19 Employee Benefits Revised in Switzerland are calculated using the  method and spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees services, consistent with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields of high-quality corporate bonds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
The costs of other post-employment liabilities, predominantly arising in France, are calculated in a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees services, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The Group also makes payments to defined contribution plans and these payments are charged to the consolidated income statement as incurred.
2.22 Share-based payments In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, for all grants of share options and awards, the cost of equity-settled transactions is measured by reference to their fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The Black-Scholes model is used to determine fair value foroptions and the Monte Carlo binomial model for Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards.
The cost of equity-settled share transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period until the award vests.
At each reporting date, the cumulative expense recognised for equity-based transactions reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of share awards that, in the opinion of the Directors at that date, will ultimately vest.
2.23 Fair value Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
According to the hierarchy prescribed by IFRS 13 Fair value measurement, fair value is first made with reference to a directly observable quoted price and secondly to an observable comparable quoted price and if none still exist, is estimated using one of the three prescribed valuation techniques: market approach similar comparable transactions: income approach value in use: and cost approach current replacement cost.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if a market participant would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Fair value measurements and or disclosures in the Group consolidated financial statements are determined on such basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17 Leases, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value ofinventory in IAS 2 Inventories or value in use as defined by IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
110 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
Revenue Revenue by income stream 9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Royalties 47.5 39.2 Signing and milestone payments 20.5 24.4 Development services 4.5 4.7 Product supply and device sales 50.3 3.7 Other revenue 3.7 Total revenue by income stream 126.5 72.0 Revenue by geographic location 9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m United Kingdom 45.6 13.2 Rest of Europe 31.4 37.4 United States of America 31.3 21.4 Japan 17.7 Rest of world 0.5 Total revenue by geographic location 126.5 72.0 The geographic split of revenue is based on the location of the customer being invoiced by the Group and does not reflect the country in which the related products are sold.
Revenue by customer Revenue earned in the nine-month period to 31 December 2016 from the Groups major customers was as follows: Customer A 31.0m, Customer B 22.4m 2015 16: 33.6m, Customer C 17.6m and Customer D 13.3m 2015 16: 13.0m.
Customer A and Customer C are new customers for the Group following the merger, and therefore no comparatives are presented for the twelve-month period to 31March 2016.
Segmental information The Group is managed on the basis of a single reportable segment, being the development and supply of pharmaceutical products.
It has been determined that there is only one operating segment, because the CODM, identified as the Board, allocates resources on the basis of integrated management information, which is presented to the Board at least every two months, as well as the integrated management information in the annual budget.
Non-current assets by geographical location Property, Intangible plant and Goodwill assets equipment Associates Other Total m m m m m m Switzerland 63.0 342.0 35.5 2.1 442.6 United Kingdom 91.4 11.4 0.2 103.0 Germany 8.4 83.9 0.5 1.7 94.5 France 7.4 7.4 United States of America 30.9 30.9 At 31 December 2016 162.8 456.8 54.8 1.7 2.3 678.4 Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 111 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 5.
Research and development expenses 9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Wholly-owned specialist assets 21.1 20.0 Novel patented molecule and device partnering projects 15.0 17.3 Generic analogue molecule and device partnering projects 8.7 4.8 Other oral projects 0.8 Total research and development expenses 45.6 42.1 6.
EBITDA EBITDA is a non-statutory measure used by the Board, the Executive Leadership Team and managers of the business to monitor theGroups performance as it provides useful information about the businesss underlying cash generating performance.
EBITDA is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation, adding back charges for share-based payments anddepreciation as follows: 9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 Note m m Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation 28.9 19.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15 3.4 1.4 Share-based payments 27 1.8 2.5 EBITDA 34.1 23.2 Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation reconciles to loss before taxation as presented on the consolidated income statement.
Refer to note 9 Exceptional items for analysis of the exceptional charges of 9.4m and note 14 Goodwill and intangible assets for analysis of the amortisation charge of 64.0m.
Employees The average number of employees including Executive Directors employed by the Group was as follows: 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 Number Number R&D and related support services 270 211 Business development and administration 46 15 Manufacturing and supply chain 86 44 Average employees 402 270 Employee numbers at the end of the period were 453 2015 16: 261.
The disclosure above reflects the inclusion of Skyepharma from10June 2016.
9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Wages and salaries 22.8 18.9 Social security costs 3.8 3.1 Payments to defined benefit pension plans 0.7 Payments to defined contribution pension plans 0.7 0.9 Aggregate remuneration 28.0 22.9 Details of Directors remuneration, including the remuneration of the highest paid Director, is included in the Remuneration Report.
112 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
Auditors remuneration Deloitte LLP was the Group auditor for both reporting periods and its fees were as follows: 9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 0.1 Audit of the Groups subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Total audit fees 0.2 0.1 Other services reporting accountant on merger prospectus 0.6 Total non-audit fees 0.6 Total fees payable to the Group auditor 0.2 0.7 The audit fee for the Groups Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 was 65,000 2015 16: 30,000.
Inthe twelve months to 31 March 2016, other services performed by the Groups auditor related to its role as Reporting Accountant on themerger prospectus issued to shareholders on 8 April 2016.
Ernst & Young LLP was retained for the current period as subsidiary auditor for the Skyepharma entities.
An external audit tender is currently underway and it is planned that a single Group and subsidiary auditor from 2017 onwards will be recommended to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May 2017.
Total audit fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP were 0.3m and fees payable for audit related services were 0.1m.
Exceptional items Exceptional items for the period are predominantly transaction costs associated with the merger and with post-merger integration activities: 9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Merger transaction costs 6.1 5.6 Post-merger integration costs 3.9 Post-merger integration pension curtailment 1.1 Other costs 0.5 Total exceptional items 9.4 5.6 Legal and professional transaction costs of 6.1m were incurred on completion of the merger transaction.
Post-merger integration expenditure comprises mainly redundancy costs and third-party consultancy costs.
In November 2016, as part of the integration activity, 10 employees who participated in the Swiss pension plan were informed ofredundancy and accordingly a 1.1m curtailment credit was recognised.
Refer to note 23 Retirement benefit obligations.
Other costs of 0.5m relate to legal fees incurred from initiating legal proceedings against GSK relating to enforcement of Vecturas patents in respect of the Ellipta products and restructuring costs at the Groups manufacturing facility in Lyon, France.
Net finance income 9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Bank interest income 0.2 0.3 Bank interest expense 0.4 0.5 Foreign exchange gains 4.2 1.6 Income from sale of investment 2.4 Net finance income 4.0 3.8 Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 113 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 11.
Taxation 9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Current taxation 4.4 Deferred taxation note 22 11.0 4.9 R&D tax credits 1.4 2.0 Net taxation credit 8.0 6.9 Current taxation arises from trading profits generated in Switzerland and the US from EXPAREL.
Following the merger, the UK tax group ofentities is no longer eligible for the R&D tax credits for SMEs but is able to claim the RDEC for large enterprises.
The credit is subject to UK corporation tax and therefore is included within the consolidated income statement and presented as other income.
R&D tax credits shown within taxation for this period relate to adjustments to prior year claims under the SME regime for Vectura Limited and Vectura Delivery Devices Limited.
Deferred tax credits arise on the unwinding of tax liabilities on the intangible assets acquired as a result of the acquisition of Activaero and the merger.
Effective tax rate ETR The Groups ETR is a 20% credit.
This equates to the applicable UK tax rate of 20%.
There are a number of factors which result in this correlation.
The UK tax group is loss making and, prior to the merger, received a tax credit on qualifying R&D expenditure.
In addition, the UK companies are able to participate in the UK Patent box regime, the benefit of which is expected to increase as new products are approved.
In Switzerland and the US, the Group is profitable and for the period the ETRs in these jurisdictions were 12% and 28%, respectively.
Therefore, the Groups ETR is a weighted average of the Swiss and US rates together with the UK tax credit for the period prior to the merger.
9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Loss before tax 40.1 1.9 Loss before tax multiplied by standard rate of UK corporation tax of 20% 31 March 2016: 20% 8.0 0.4 Effects of: UK Patent box benefit 1.2 1.0 1 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.2 0.4 Unrecognised deferred tax 1.2 3.9 Prior year deferred tax 0.6 Research and development tax credits 1.4 2.0 Differences arising from prior period computations 0.2 Differences in effective overseas tax rates 0.2 Total tax credit for the period 8.0 6.9 1 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes in the current period relate to merger transaction costs.
The implementation of OECD guidelines on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting is not expected to impact the Groups tax position.
Beyondanypotential changes to the tax regimes in Switzerland and the US, there are no material tax uncertainties and no ongoing taxaudits.
TheUK corporation tax rate will reduce to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017, and 17% from 1 April 2020, both reductions havingbeen substantively enacted.
114 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Earnings per share The calculation of earnings per share is based on the following data: 9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Loss profit after taxation 32.1 5.0 EBITDA 34.1 23.2 Million shares Million shares Weighted average number of shares basic earnings per share 608.9 405.8 Effect of dilutive potential shares share options 5.3 9.6 Weighted average number of shares diluted earnings per share 614.2 415.4 Loss earnings per share Basic 5.3p 1.2p Diluted 5.3p 1.2p EBITDA per share Basic 5.6p 5.7p Diluted 5.6p 5.6p 13. Business combinations On 10 June 2016, an all-share merger the merger between Vectura and Skyepharma was completed by way of a scheme of arrangement of Skyepharma.
Immediately following the transaction, on a fully-diluted basis, the previous shareholders of Vectura owned 61.3% of the enlarged Group, with the previous shareholders of Skyepharma owning 38.7%.
These percentages are broadly proportional to the revised Board structure.
Under the terms of the merger, Skyepharma shareholders received 2.7977 Vectura shares in exchange for each Skyepharma share, with the option to take a partial cash alternative for a portion of their shareholding, which in aggregate was capped at 70.0m.
The final uptake of this partial cash alternative was 52.1m.
The results of Skyepharma have been included in the Groups consolidated income statement from 10 June 2016, contributing 78.4m 62% of Group revenues for the period ending 31 December 2016.
The Skyepharma Group contributed 31.9m of profit after tax before amortisation of intangible assets and a loss after tax of 16.9m after the inclusion of amortisation of intangible assets in the earnings of the merged Group.
a Consideration transferred The consideration transferred to acquire Skyepharma was 475.5m as follows: Skyepharma Vectura shares shares exchanged issued Consideration m m m New Vectura Group plc shares issued 95.1 266.1 423.4 Uptake of the partial cash alternative 12.7 52.1 107.8 266.1 475.5 There were no contingent elements of consideration.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 115 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 13. Business combinations continued b Transaction costs Merger-related costs amounting to 6.1m have been excluded from the consideration transferred and recognised as an exceptional item inthe consolidated income statement for the current period.
Merger-related costs of 5.6m were recognised in the 31 March 2016 comparative period.
Share issue costs of 2.5m which were directly attributable to the issue of the shares have been netted against the deemed proceeds and presented in equity.
c Skyepharma contribution to the consolidated results If the acquisition had been completed on 1 April 2016, being the first day of the nine-month financial period, the Groups revenue would have been 142.0m and the Groups loss before taxation would have been increased by approximately 4.4m excluding exceptional transaction costs that were incurred and recognised in the pre-acquisition results of Skyepharma.
d Goodwill recognised upon the merger The fair value of net assets acquired was 374.7m.
Goodwill arising upon the merger represents the excess of the purchase price as follows: m Consideration transferred 475.5 Less: fair value of identifiable assets acquired 374.7 Goodwill arising on the merger note 14 100.8 116 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13. Business combinations continued e Fair values of Skyepharma assets and liabilities acquired Fair value Fair value Book value adjustments acquired Note m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets A 6.5 373.0 379.5 Property, plant and equipment B 28.3 11.2 39.5 Deferred taxation C 2.0 0.7 2.7 Other financial assets 0.4 0.4 37.2 384.5 421.7 Current assets Inventories D 13.2 3.5 16.7 Trade and other receivables 22.3 22.3 Cash and cash equivalents 27.1 27.1 Other financial assets 0.1 0.1 62.7 3.4 66.1 Total assets acquired 99.9 387.9 487.8 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables E 25.5 3.8 29.3 Corporate taxation payables 5.9 5.9 Borrowings 0.2 0.2 Deferred income 0.2 0.2 Provisions 2.2 2.2 34.0 3.8 37.8 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 4.1 4.1 Retirement benefit obligations 8.3 8.3 Provisions and other payables E 1.1 2.8 3.9 Deferred taxation C 3.9 55.1 59.0 17.4 57.9 75.3 Total liabilities 51.4 61.7 113.1 Net assets acquired 48.5 326.2 374.7 A: Intangible assets: Skyepharma previously did not generally recognise internally-generated intangible assets.
IFRS 3 requires purchased intangible assets to be recognised at fair value.
The intangible assets acquired by Vectura were valued by independent external experts on the basis of the net present value of income streams less costs associated with those streams.
B: Property, plant and equipment: On a historical cost accounting basis, the cost of the buildings is subject to depreciation.
In practice, thefair market value of buildings often appreciates.
As a result, fair value adjustments on land, buildings and equipment in Switzerland and France were recognised based upon property valuations obtained from independent external experts.
C: Deferred taxation: In accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes, a deferred tax liability has been recognised in relation to the fair value uplift on net assets such that the notional tax consequence of increased future amortisation can be matched to the period in which theamortisation occurs.
D: Inventories: Inventories have been uplifted to their fair value, which for finished goods equates to their subsequent sales price andforsemi-finished goods represents a value based on the relevant stage of completion of the manufacturing process.
E: Trade and other payables and provisions: relates to the recognition of contingent liabilities required by IFRS 3.
On acquisition, Skyepharma was committed to make certain payments to a development partner contingent upon future receipt of sales milestones and royalties received, with the payments deducted from these amounts receivable from the partner.
Accordingly, a liability of 6.6m was recognised and is expected to unwind by the end of 2020.
There was no difference between the fair value and the carrying value of receivables at the merger date.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 117 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 13. Business combinations continued f Fair value of intangible assets recognised upon acquisition IFRS 3 requires purchased intangible assets to be recognised at fair value.
These intangible assets represent Skyepharmas intellectual property, patents and technology acquired by the Vectura Group.
The intangible assets recognised on 10 June 2016 mainly comprises flutiform, EXPAREL, GSKs Ellipta products, other marketed products, SKP 2076 now VR2076 and Skyepharmas core inhalation technologies.
These intangible assets are being amortised over a period of between two and eight years.
The IASB has amended IAS 38 Intangible Assets to include a rebuttable presumption that the amortisation of intangible assets based on the expected period ofrevenues is inappropriate.
Hence, these amortisation lives are therefore shorter than managements forecasts of when revenues could continue to be generated.
Goodwill and intangible assets Intellectual Goodwill property Other Total m m m m Cost: At 1 April 2015 56.8 192.0 248.8 Foreign exchange movements 0.6 9.2 9.8 At 31 March 2016 57.4 201.2 258.6 Skyepharma merger 100.8 374.4 5.1 480.3 Additions 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange movements 4.6 52.0 0.6 57.2 At 31 December 2016 162.8 627.7 5.7 796.2 Amortisation: At 1 April 2015 87.7 87.7 Charge during the year 18.8 18.8 Foreign exchange movements 2.5 2.5 At 31 March 2016 109.0 109.0 Charge during the period 58.9 5.1 64.0 Foreign exchange movements 3.6 3.6 At 31 December 2016 171.5 5.1 176.6 Net book value: At 31 December 2016 162.8 456.2 0.6 619.6 At 31 March 2016 57.4 92.2 149.6 Goodwill The carrying value of goodwill is made up of balances arising on acquisition of the following companies: 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Skyepharma Limited formerly Skyepharma PLC 104.8 Vectura Limited formerly Co-ordinated Drug Development Limited 1.5 1.5 Vectura Delivery Devices Limited 0.5 0.5 Innovata Limited 47.6 47.6 Vectura GmbH formerly Activaero GmbH 8.4 7.8 162.8 57.4 118 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued Goodwill continued Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Impairment testing is performed by allocating goodwill to CGUs.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined on a value-in-use basis.
An impairment provision is recognised if the goodwill carrying value exceeds this value in use.
Prior to the merger, goodwill was allocated to the following CGUs: 31 March 2016 Cash-generating unit m Vectura 49.6 Activaero 7.8 57.4 Following the merger, the Group has reorganised its structure, and hence the level at which goodwill is monitored has changed.
Goodwillhas been re-allocated using a relative value approach to the Groups primary geographical territories as follows: 31 December 2016 Cash-generating unit m United Kingdom and Germany 99.8 Switzerland 63.0 162.8 The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, the amount and level of R&D expenditure and the market potential and growth for a product.
The value-in-use calculations have been based on the most recent cash flow forecasts prepared by management which consist of detailed product-by-product analyses.
These forecasts are based on development timings and projected sales volumes using partner forecasts and the Groups own assessment of the market potential for a product using market data.
Cash flows are forecast over a ten-year period and no general growth rates are assumed.
A terminal value is applied post year 10 based on the year 10 cash flow with no further growth.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets requires use of pre-tax rates when determining value in use.
However, as Vectura uses a post-tax weightedaverage cost of capital of 9% as a starting point for determining the discount rate, value in use is calculated using post-tax cash flows at a post-tax rate.
Applying a post-tax discount rate to post-tax cash flows approximates the results from applying a pre-tax discount rate to pre-tax cash flows.
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGUs carrying value.
In each case, the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change in a key assumption is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 15.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold Laboratory Assets under property equipment construction Total m m m m Cost: At 1 April 2015 1.2 15.8 6.4 23.4 Additions 0.2 1.6 1.8 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.3 0.3 Disposals 0.4 0.4 At 31 March 2016 1.1 17.0 6.4 24.5 Skyepharma merger 15.5 17.0 7.0 39.5 Additions 0.1 2.1 0.9 3.1 Foreign exchange movements 1.5 1.8 0.8 4.1 At 31 December 2016 18.2 37.9 15.1 71.2 Depreciation: At 1 April 2015 11.9 11.9 Charge for the year 1.4 1.4 Disposals 0.4 0.4 At 31 March 2016 12.9 12.9 Charge for the period 0.4 3.0 3.4 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2016 0.4 16.0 16.4 Net book value: At 31 December 2016 17.8 21.9 15.1 54.8 At 31 March 2016 1.1 4.1 6.4 11.6 Freehold property includes land valued at 5.1m 2015 16: 0.2m which is not depreciated.
Office equipment, recognised as part ofthemerger, with a net book value of 0.4m at 31 December 2016, is included within laboratory equipment.
Assets under construction principally relate to an item of production equipment at a partner production facility in the USA and equipment to increase the capacity of flutiform at the Sanofi manufacturing facility in Holmes Chapel, UK.
This additional flutiform capacity became fully operational in January 2017.
Group subsidiaries and holdings At 31 December 2016, the Groups principal subsidiaries and associate are set out in note 5 of the separate Company financial statements.
Unless otherwise stated, they have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares that are held directly or indirectly by the Company.
The proportion of ownership interests held directly or indirectly equals the voting rights held by the Company.
120 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.
Inventories 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Raw materials 9.0 0.1 Work in progress 7.8 Finished goods 4.1 0.6 Less: provision for inventory 2.5 Total inventories 18.4 0.7 The provision totalling 2.5m is allocated as follows: raw materials 0.3m and finished goods 2.2m.
Inventory primarily relates to the flutiform supply chain but also includes 0.9m of oral manufactured products and 0.9m of devices.
During the nine months to 31 December 2016, certain inventory was written down to net realisable value resulting in a charge to cost ofsales in the consolidated income statement of 2.2m 2015 16: 0.4m.
A total of 37.4m was included in cost of sales with respect toinventory during the period 2015 16: 3.6m.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Trade receivables 22.2 1.6 Less provision 1.1 Net trade receivables 21.1 1.6 Other receivables 5.2 2.5 Prepayments and accrued income 25.8 13.6 Research and development tax credits 4.5 4.5 Total trade and other receivables 56.6 22.2 The carrying values of trade and other receivables approximate their fair values because these balances are expected to be cash settled inthe near future unless a provision is made.
Trade receivables past due at 31 December 2016 were 4.6m 2015 16: 0.1m.
None of the outstanding balances were more than 60 days past due.
Provisions against trade receivables are recognised in accordance with expectations of recoverability.
Cash and cash equivalents The Groups cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Sterling 27.8 85.3 US Dollars 34.0 12.0 Euros 24.2 2.5 Swiss Francs 6.5 Cash and cash equivalents 92.5 99.8 In August 2016, Vectura arranged a 50m unsecured committed multi-currency revolving credit facility RCF with Barclays Bank PLC.
Thecost of borrowing under the RCF is 1.0 2.0% above the relevant LIBOR EURIBOR reference rate.
There are two financial covenants which will be tested at each reporting period if drawings have been made under the facility in the previous six months.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 20.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Trade payables 22.4 6.4 Accruals 31.1 18.6 Other payables 4.4 0.8 Deferred income 1.7 0.8 Property mortgages 0.2 Trade and other current liabilities 59.8 26.6 Other payables 6.2 Deferred income 1.7 1.0 Property mortgages 4.3 Other non-current payables 12.2 1.0 Trade and other payables 72.0 27.6 Due to the short-term nature of current payables, their carrying values approximate their fair value.
Long-term payables of 12.2m 2015 16: 1.0m principally relate to Swiss property mortgages and contingent liabilities recognised inaccordance with IFRS 3 as a result of the merger.
As at 31 December 2016, the carrying value of the mortgage relating to the buildings which are in use was 4.5m.
The mortgage has afixed rate of interest of 2.6% per annum and an expiry date of 28 February 2019.
The Group does not have any significant borrowings and therefore a separate borrowings note is not disclosed.
The details of the undrawn RCF facility are provided in note 19 Cash and cash equivalents.
Provisions Employee benefits Property Other Total m m m m At 1 April 2016 0.6 0.6 Skyepharma merger 3.4 1.0 0.1 4.5 Charged during the period 0.7 0.8 1.0 2.5 Utilised during the period 2.0 0.6 2.6 Foreign exchange movements 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.4 At 31 December 2016 2.3 1.9 1.2 5.4 Current 1.0 0.9 1.9 Non-current 1.3 1.9 0.3 3.5 Provisions are classified as current if their settlement is expected within twelve months of the balance sheet date.
Details of the costs provided for under the restructuring provision are set out in note 9 Exceptional items and are presented as current as they are expected to be settled within twelve months.
Employee benefits are primarily related to employer payroll taxes arising from a participant exercising a vested option under an employee share plan and a provision for French statutory retirement payments one-off lump sum payments due on retirement of employees at the Groups manufacturing facility in Lyon, France.
Property provisions relate to an onerous lease in Switzerland and a repair and maintenance works required under leasing arrangements for the Groups R&D facilities in Chippenham where the final timing and cost of work to be performed is uncertain.
122 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
Deferred tax liabilities The principal deferred tax liabilities relate to differences between the tax and accounting base of intangible assets and buildings uplifted asa consequence of the fair value accounting requirements associated with the merger and the Activaero transaction as follows: Swiss unrealised Skyepharma Activaero foreign intangible intangible exchange assets assets gains Total m m m m At 1 April 2016 20.4 20.4 Skyepharma merger 55.1 3.9 59.0 Charged credited to: consolidated income statement 8.5 4.7 0.7 12.5 other comprehensive income 0.7 0.7 Prior year movement 1.0 0.4 0.6 Exchange differences 6.5 2.0 0.1 8.6 At 31 December 2016 53.1 18.7 5.0 76.8 Deferred tax liabilities associated with the Skyepharma merger and Activaero intangible assets unwind to offset the tax distortion that would otherwise occur as the assets are amortised.
Deferred tax liabilities on Swiss unrealised foreign exchange gains arise onpermanent funding loans because foreign exchange gains are deferred on the local balance sheet in accordance with Swiss laws.
A deferred tax asset on German tax losses of 4.3m 2015 16: 3.3m has been offset against the deferred tax liability on Activaero intangible assets.
The expiry profile of the tax losses of the Group is estimated as follows: Expiry profile 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Indefinite Total Tax losses m 9.2 5.2 5.2 5.0 4.7 210.7 240.0 The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets on losses amounting to 187.9m 2015 16: 56.6m.
The majority of the losses presented above are unlikely to offset taxable profits in the foreseeable future.
The UK activities continue to be loss making resulting in potential deferred tax assets which are currently not recognised on these losses.
Retirement benefit obligations Swiss defined benefit pension plan Following the merger, a Swiss pension liability of 7.1m was recognised after an independent actuarial valuation.
This was based on 90 employees in the quasi-governmental Swiss pension scheme.
In November 2016, 10 employees who participated in this pension plan were informed of redundancy and hence the pension liability has been curtailed in the period to reflect a reduction in the unit projected liability.
Refer to note 9 Exceptional items.
Pension schemes existing before the merger were accounted for as defined contribution schemes, and consequently, no pension liabilities existed before 10 June 2016.
The Group operates a pension scheme in respect of its employees in Switzerland.
The employer and employee contribute to the scheme on a monthly basis.
The balance funded will be used to determine pension amount on retirement, based on the conversion rate set by the pension regulator.
As explained above, this pension scheme is accounted for as a defined benefit pension scheme as it meets the definition within IAS19 Employee Benefits Revised.
The Group and its employees make additional contributions in respect of death or disability benefits.
The pension scheme is regulated to require that the funds achieve a minimum investment return, established by the government on a yearly basis, taking into account the relatively conservative investment criteria which must be followed by the pension investment company.
The primary obligation to ensure that each pension fund achieves at least the minimum return lies with the pension investment company: a company controlled byits member-employers and member-employees, which pools the funds across many employers and is able to smooth out any under-performance over a number of periods.
If the investment target is not met, the effect is usually assessed over a number of periods.
If the deficit persists over this period or is substantial, it will first be met from past reserves from periods when the investment return has exceeded the minimum required.
If a deficit remains, or is significant, members may agree or be required by the regulator to make a higher rate of future contribution in order to restore the investment funds to a fully funded level over a number of periods.
These additional contributions would be shared equally between the employer and the employee.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Swiss defined benefit pension plan continued The employer and employee members are, therefore, exposed to the following risks: the risk that the minimum investment return is not met, and is not made up from past excess returns or future returns: and the risks that the assets held by the pension fund are not sufficient to cover payments to pensioners, disability benefit anddeath-in-service benefit.
As these risks match the criteria for accounting for a scheme as a defined benefit scheme, the Swiss pension plan is accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised.
The liability included in the balance sheet in respect of the Swiss pension plan is, therefore, the present value of the defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets.
Defined benefit obligations for the scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the  method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Service costs are included in staff costs and charged to the consolidated income statement over the remaining average expected service lives of employees.
They are set at a level designed to give a charge through the profit and loss account which is a level percentage of salaries.
The average conversion rate will decrease over the next three years until 2019 from 6.4% to 6.0%.
The Swiss federal law on Occupational Retirement, Survivors and Disability Pension Plans provides for minimum pension benefits and also a minimum amount for the savings contributions.
The amount of contributions to be paid by the employer and employee is determined by the Board of Trustees or the pension fund commission.
These can exceed the statutory minimum.
The employer contribution must be at least as high as the employee contributions.
These contributions are age dependent and based on the pensionable salary.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the Swiss scheme are as follows: 31 December 2016 m Present value of funded obligations 21.3 Fair value of plan assets 15.4 Balance sheet liability 5.9 The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation since the merger date on 10 June 2016 is as follows: 31 December 2016 m Recognised upon merger 19.9 Foreign exchange 2.3 Current service cost 0.6 Benefits paid and withdrawals 0.3 Actuarial movement from plan experience 0.3 Actuarial gain arising from change in assumptions 1.3 Employee contributions 0.3 Exceptional gain on curtailment note 9 1.1 Present value of the defined benefit obligation 21.3 The movement in the fair value of the plan assets since the merger is as follows: 31 December 2016 m Recognised upon merger 12.8 Foreign exchange 1.4 Benefits paid and withdrawals 0.3 Actuarial gains recognised on plan assets 0.2 Employer contributions 0.4 Employee contributions 0.3 Fair value of the plan assets 15.4 124 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Swiss defined benefit pension plan continued Plan assets at 31 December 2016 comprise: m % Equity 4.8 31.2 Bonds 6.9 44.8 Property 2.9 18.8 Cash 0.3 1.9 Other 0.5 3.3 Total plan assets 15.4 100.0 Other includes higher risk investments such as commodities or emerging market investments.
The pension fund manages these in accordance with Swiss pension regulations to generate a higher return on the fund.
The current service cost recognised in the consolidated income statement was 0.6m.
Actuarial gains and losses primarily arise from differences in the key actuarial assumptions of inflation rates, salary increases, discount rates and the Swiss conversion rate published bythe Swiss pension regulator.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised within equity.
The cumulative actuarial gain recognised since the merger is as follows: 31 December 2016 m Actuarial gain recognised in other comprehensive income 1.3 Cumulative actuarial gains recognised within retained losses 1.3 At 31 December 2016, actuarial valuations were performed by actuaries on the present value of the accrued liabilities calculated under  method.
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: % Inflation rate 0.5 Rate of increase in salaries 1.0 Discount rate 0.6 Expected return on plan assets 0.6 Future pension increases Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are based on published statistics and experience in Switzerland.
Life expectancy at assumed retirement age Years Male 22.4 Female 25.4 Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the period ending 31 December 2017 are 0.6m.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: Monetary Monetary effect of effect of increase in decrease in Change in assumption assumption assumption m m Discount rate - 1% 2.0 2.0 Salary growth - 1% 0.4 0.4 Pension growth rate - 1% 1.2 1.2 Life expectancy - 1 year 0.2 0.5 The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, thisisunlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 24.
Financial instruments Under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and for the purposes of risk management, the following classes of financial assets andliabilities at their carrying values have been identified: 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents at fair value 92.5 99.8 Financial assets at amortised cost 56.6 22.6 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 58.0 26.4 91.1 96.0 Provisions against impaired assets are disclosed in note 18 Trade and other receivables.
Trade receivables past due but not impaired at31 December 2016 were 4.6m 31 March 2016: nil.
The majority of financial liabilities fall due within one year and hence there is usually no difference between their invoice value and their amortised cost value.
Liabilities in respect of Swiss property mortgages of 4.5m are included above with 4.3m classified as non-current.
The Directors consider there to be no material difference between the book value and the fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
a Capital management The Group manages its capital to ensure that all entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern whilst maximising the return to stakeholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists of equity as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity, retained earnings, cash and cash equivalents note 19 Cash and cash equivalents, an RCF note 19 Cash and cash equivalents and a Swiss property mortgage note 20 Trade and other payables.
The Group seeks to manage its capital through an appropriate mix of these items.
As at 31 March 2016, and to the date that these financial statements were issued, no funds were drawn against the RCF.
Subsidiary companies are funded by share capital, retained earnings and intra-Group lending.
Certain subsidiaries have capital maintenance obligations under local law and in relation to the Groups RCF.
These are reviewed for compliance on a regular basis.
The Directors consider that all requirements and covenants have been complied with during the period covered by these consolidated financial statements.
b Financial risk management The primary risks that the Group is exposed to through its use of financial instruments are liquidity risk, market risk foreign currency risk and interest rate risk and credit risk.
Board authorisation is required for all significant agreements that may affect the Group risk structure.
It is, and has been throughout the period, the Groups policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments is undertaken.
The Group is funded principally through equity and invests its funds in short-term bank deposits.
The Group has access to the majority of these deposits at a maximum of 24 hours notice.
The Groups policy throughout the period has been to minimise the risk by placing funds in low-risk cash deposits and to ensure liquidity.
Maximising the return on funds placed on deposit is considered only after the first two criteria of security and liquidity have been satisfied.
c Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and by continually monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The Groups policy is to maintain continuity of funding through available cash and cash equivalents, an RCF and through the issue of shares where appropriate.
d Market risk management Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates or interest rates, will affect the Groups results orthevalue of its investments.
Currency risk management The Groups presentation currency is Sterling.
The Group is subject to exposure on the translation of the assets of foreign subsidiaries whose functional currencies differ from that of the Group.
The Groups primary balance sheet translation exposures are to the Swiss Franc, Euro and US Dollar.
The Group aims to minimise balance sheet translation exposures, where it is practical to do so, by funding subsidiaries with long-term loans, on which exchange differences are taken to reserves.
126 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24.
Financial instruments continued d Market risk management continued Currency risk management continued The Group faces currency exposures arising from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency.
These exposures are not hedged.
Exposures also arise from foreign currency-denominated trading transactions undertaken by subsidiaries.
The Groups policy is to offset such currency exposure by matching foreign currency revenues with expenditure in the same foreign currency.
Where there are no imminent foreign currency-denominated transactions, the surplus foreign currency cash balances are exchanged for the functional currency of the subsidiary.
Where it has not been possible to use natural hedges, currency options and forward currency contracts may be used.
No options or forward contracts have been entered into in the period 2015 16: none.
A 10% strengthening of the Euro, Sterling, US Dollar and Swiss Franc functional currencies within the Group against non-functional currencies of its subsidiaries would result in the loss before taxation being 7.0m lower and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 14.6m higher.
A 10% weakening would have an equal but opposite effect on loss before taxation and other comprehensive income.
The Group considers a 10% strengthening or weakening of the functional currency against the non-functional currency ofits subsidiaries as a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
In the prior year, the Group considered a 15% strengthening or weakening of the functional currencies within the Group against the non-functional currency of its subsidiaries as a reasonably possible change.
In the year to 31 March 2016, a 15% strengthening of the Euro and US Dollar, the currencies underlying the Groups translation exposures during the year, against Sterling would result in the loss before taxation being 2.2m lower and other comprehensive income being 2.2m higher.
A 15% weakening would increase the loss before taxation and reduce items directly recognised in other comprehensive income by 1.6m.
Interest rate risk management A 1% increase in interest rates would result in the Groups loss before taxation for the period being 0.9m lower 2015 16: 1.0m using an interest rate variance of 0.5%.
A 1% decrease in interest rates would result in an equal but opposite effect.
These sensitivities currently exclude the impact of the RCF as it is undrawn.
Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
The Group is exposed to credit risk primarily through its operating activities, including trade receivables and from its investing activities, including bank deposits.
The creditworthiness of customers is assessed by reference to publicly-available information, or information provided by those customers.
In view of the nature of the business, most customers are large, profitable, pharmaceutical companies.
Trade receivables are allocated across a number of customers and the balances are monitored on a regular basis with a view to minimising the exposure to bad debts.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in note 18 Trade and other receivables.
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets in the Group, the maximum exposure is equal to the carrying value of the instrument.
Significant investments require Board approval before being authorised.
Ordinary share capital Number Allotted, called up and fully paid m of shares Ordinary shares of 0.025p, each at 1 April 2016 0.1 410,530,184 Issued for Skyepharma scheme of arrangement 0.1 266,073,504 Issued to satisfy Vectura employee share plans 1,365,633 Ordinary shares of 0.025p, each at 31 December 2016 0.2 677,969,321 Redeemable preference shares of 1 each at 1 April 2016 and 31 December 2016 34,000 A total of 266,073,504 ordinary shares of 0.025p each were allotted to satisfy the Skyepharma scheme of arrangement.
As 100% of the Skyepharma share capital was acquired through a share transaction, merger relief is available under the UK Companies Act 2006 and, accordingly, the share premium relating to the new Vectura ordinary shares issued is presented in a merger reserve.
During the period, the Group allotted 1,365,633 ordinary shares of 0.025p each related to employee share option awards.
For further details refer to note 27 Share-based payments.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 26.
Shareholders equity a Share premium The share premium account consists of the proceeds from the issue of shares in excess of their par value which is recorded within share capital less amounts transferred to distributable reserves through capital conversion.
This non-distributable reserve is also reduced by directly attributable share issue costs in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
b Merger reserve When shares are issued as consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary, the issuing company may benefit from merger relief section612 Companies Act, IFRS requires the cost of investment to be recognised at the fair value of the consideration transferred andthe Companies Act allows the excess over the nominal value to be recognised as a merger reserve which provides relief from the recognition of non-distributable share premium.
The merger reserve is usually not distributable.
However, the merger reserve may become distributable at a later date.
For example, if theinvestment is written down for impairment.
The merger reserve primarily relates to the June 2016 Skyepharma merger, but also to the acquisitions of Co-ordinated Drug Development Limited since renamed Vectura Limited in August 1999, of Vectura Delivery Devices Limited inFebruary 2002 and of Innovata plc in January 2007. c Own shares reserve Own shares are a deduction from equity representing shares that have been issued to the Employee Share Trust in advance of future vesting of employee share options.
The value represents the cumulative historical cost value of unexercised shares allotted to the trust.
d Share-based payment reserve The share-based payment reserve represents cumulative charges to the consolidated income statement for share-based payments from the grant date of awards to their vesting date.
When an award vests, the corresponding portion of this reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
e Translation reserve On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of overseas subsidiaries into the Groups presentational currency, permanent net investments in foreign entities and financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in othercomprehensive income and in the translation reserve.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the operation to which the goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes per IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and translated at the closing rate, when the goodwill is not allocated toaSterling-based CGU.
Fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities oftheoperation and translated at the closing rate.
Share-based payments Share-based payments relate entirely to employee share plans.
Following the merger, a number of exceptional awards were also granted to employees considered critical to the integration process.
The share-based payment charge in the consolidated income statement is analysed as follows: 9 months 12 months ended ended 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Pre-exceptional equity-settled plans 1.8 2.5 Share-based payments within exceptional items 0.5 Total share-based payments 2.3 2.5 The employee share award plans are designed to support a strong culture of long-term shareholder value creation.
Details of the long-term incentive plan, the Groups main plan, are set out below.
The Group also operates a share incentive plan SIP and a Save-As-You-Earn Plan SAYE.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Under the approved Groups remuneration policy, equity awards are a key component of the overall remuneration package for senior management and executives.
The share-based payment costs associated with the LTIPs charged to the consolidated income statement inthe period were 1.1m 2015 16: 1.2m.
128 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.
Share-based payments continued Executive compensation awards These awards were made under the terms of a share award agreement in connection with the recruitment and appointment of the ChiefExecutive Officer on 1 October 2015.
They were made to facilitate recruitment and to compensate for loss of certain benefits and share awards from his previous employment, which were forfeited as a result of his employment by Vectura.
The share-based payment costs associated with the Executive compensation awards charged to the consolidated income statement in the period were 0.6m 2015 16: 1.1m.
Exceptional share-based awards Upon completion of the merger, 1,490,982 exceptional nil-cost awards were granted to key members of management, excluding Executive Directors, considered critical to the integration process.
These awards vest in full provided that an 18-month or 36-month service condition is met from their date of grant on 22 September 2016.
There are no performance conditions associated with these awards.
The grant date fair value was 1.41 per share and the total share-based payment charge, assuming no lapses occur, will be expensed evenly to 21 March 2018 or 21 September 2019, depending on the applicable service conditions.
Share trusts The Group operates two share trusts.
The Groups own-share reserve represents the weighted average cost of shares in the Estera Employee Benefit Trust and the Vectura Employee Benefit Trust, which are held for the purposes of fulfilling obligations in respect of executive awards and employee share plans.
At 31 December 2016, the Vectura Employee Benefit Trust held 315,293 shares for the purposes of fulfilling obligations under the SIP andSAYE plans open to all employees.
The trust is included within the Group results for the first time in the current period as 300,000 freeshares were allotted to the trust in December 2016.
A further two Skyepharma share trusts are no longer operational and do not support Vectura Group share schemes.
These trusts hold cash of 0.9m, which is recognised as a debtor in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Commitments Operating leases The Group is committed to make payments under non-cancellable property leases as follows: 31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Within one year 1.1 0.7 Between two and five years 3.5 1.1 Over five years 2.9 Total commitments under operating leases 7.5 1.8 These commitments relate to the Groups operations at Chippenham, Cambridge Science Park and Grosvenor Gardens, London.
The over five years amount above relates to the Chippenham R&D facility.
The opportunity to activate a break clause has not been exercised and therefore the leases for these buildings have in effect been extended to July 2027.
Related-party transactions Merger related As described in note 1 Basis of preparation and note 13 Business combinations, on 10 June 2016, the Skyepharma merger was completed.
Under the court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement where Skyepharma Board members and Skyepharma key management personnel held shares in Skyepharma, these were exchanged for Vectura shares and or the partial cash alternative if elected.
Certain Skyepharma Board members and key management personnel have continued in similar roles in the merged Group.
The share exchange and or partial cash payments are not considered related-party transactions as defined by the Disclosure Transparency Rule 4.8.
2 and because all shareholders were treated equally by the court-sanctioned scheme.
Full details of the share exchange and partial cash payment are provided in the Prospectus and Scheme Document dated 8 April 2016 and the Supplementary Prospectus dated 27 May 2016 available on the corporate website www.
Andrew Oakley stepped down from the role of Chief Financial Officer upon completion of the merger.
Under the terms of his service agreement, Mr Oakley was subject to a twelve-month notice period.
He received a payment in lieu of notice which was paid in two instalments.
Asum of 141,882 in lieu of six months notice was paid shortly after his departure.
A further payment of 141,882 was made six months later as he had not breached any of the terms of his settlement agreement with the Company or commenced employment or engagement elsewhere.
These provided a total remuneration which was equivalent to his twelve-month notice entitlement.
He was provided with private medical, private dental and life assurance for twelve months from the date of termination.
He also received a payment of 96,376 by way of compensation and settlement for his other benefits and any potential claims he may have against the Company and the Company agreed to provide up to 30,000 towards outplacement fees.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 129 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the nine months ended 31 December 2016 29.
Related-party transactions continued Merger related continued Following the merger, Vectura share capital with a fair value of 8.5m was issued to former members of Skyepharmas Executive and senior management teams to settle the Skyepharma LTIP.
This was required by the court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement in order toacquire the fully-diluted Skyepharma share capital.
The fair values of the shares to settle the scheme have been included within the 475.5m acquisition price for Skyepharma.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below.
31 December 31 March 2016 2016 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.0 2.1 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 0.4 0.7 Other 0.9 1.3 3.5 4.3 One Director is a member of a money purchase pension scheme 2015 16: two.
Please refer to the Remuneration Report for the single figure of remuneration for each Director.
130 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016
