Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for the maintenance Report and Accounts, including the Group and the Parent and integrity of the Companys corporate website Company financial statements in accordance with investors.
Legislation in the United applicable law and regulations.
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial other jurisdictions.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements The Directors consider that the Annual Report and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, understandable and provide the information necessary and the Parent Company financial statements in for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted business model and strategy.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law, the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are Directors must not approve the financial statements unless detailed on pages 66 to 68 of the Annual Report, confirm they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the that, to the best of their knowledge: state of affairs of the Parent Company and the Group and The Group financial statements, which have been of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are financial position and profit of the Group.
required to: The Strategic Report contained on pages 4 to 61 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply includes a fair review of the development and them consistently.
performance of the business and position of the Group, Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable together with a description of the principal risks and and prudent.
State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Signed on behalf of the Board on 7 June 2016 by: followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent Company Jamie Hopkins financial statements respectively.
Chief Executive Officer Prepare financial statements on the Going Concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will Graham Clemett continue in business.
Chief Financial Officer The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
"124""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
