Glossary of Terms Adjusted underlying earnings are based on trading profit IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd, a company after interest adjusted to exclude exceptional items.
that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
BlackRock JV BlackRock Workspace Property Trust, a joint venture property fund with the BlackRock UK IPD Quarterly Universe is the IPD quarterly universe Property Fund in which the Group holds a 20.1% interest.
property fund benchmark of approximately 240 196bn UK domestic property funds.
Cash rent roll is the current net rents receivable for occupied units.
LIBOR is the British Bankers Association London Interbank Offer Rate.
Earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation divided by the weighted average number of shares in Like-for-like are those properties that have been held issue during the period.
throughout a 12 month period and have not been subject to a refurbishment or redevelopment programme in the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT is the trust last 24 months.
created by the Group to hold shares pending exercise of employee share options.
Loan to value is the current loan balance divided by the current value of properties owned by the Group.
EPRA NAV is a denition of net asset value as set out by the European Public Real Estate Association.
It represents Market rental values see ERV.
net assets after excluding mark to market adjustments of effective cash ow hedges financial derivatives and Net asset value per share NAV is net assets divided by deferred tax relating to revaluation movements, capital the number of shares at the period end.
Net bank debt is the amount drawn on bank facilities, Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield including overdrafts, less cash deposits.
and reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce based upon the timing of the occupancy of Net rents are rents excluding any contracted increases and the property and timing of the income receivable.
This is after deduction of inclusive service charge revenue.
approximated by the reversionary yield multiplied by the Group trend occupancy of 90%.
Occupancy percentage is the area of space let divided by the total net lettable area excluding land used for Estimated rental value ERV or market rental value is open storage.
the Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review.
the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of Exceptional items are significant items of income or valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers.
expense that by virtue of their size, incidence or nature are shown separately on the Income Statement to enable a full profit loss before tax PBT is income less all understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net Property Income Distribution PID a dividend generally assets.
subject to withholding tax that a UK REIT is required to pay from its tax-exempted property rental business and which Gearing on adjusted net assets is the Groups net debt is taxable for UK resident shareholders at their marginal as a percentage of net assets excluding mark to market tax rate.
REIT is a Real Estate Investment Trust as set out in the Initial yield is the net rents generated by a property or UK Finance Act 2006 Sections 106 and 107.
REITs pay no by the portfolio as a whole expressed as a percentage of corporation tax on profits derived from their property its valuation.
Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered by operating profit.
"174""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Rent per sq."
ft. is the net rent divided by the occupied area.
Rent roll see cash rent roll.
Reversion reversionary income is the increase in rent estimated by the Groups external valuers, where the net rent is below the current estimated rental value.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of vacant space, expiry of rent free periods or rental increase steps.
Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
It is calculated by dividing the ERV by the valuation.
Small and medium sized enterprises SMEs are those businesses with a turnover of less than 1m p. a. or staff of less than 50.
Most Workspace customers are SME businesses with staffing of up to 20.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is the return obtained by a shareholder calculated by combining both share price movements and dividend receipts.
Trading profit after interest is net rental income, joint venture trading and finance income, less administrative expenses, less finance costs.
Unique web visits is the number of unduplicated counted only once visitors to a website over the course of a specified time period.
"175""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
