MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Chairmans statement 3 3 Oxford Universitys Said Business School.
Business Ethics for the Aerospace and The Meggitt Production System, the Defense Industry.
As Chairman of the Groups wide-ranging continuous Groups Ethics and Trade Compliance improvement initiative, embodies a faculty Committee, I am proud to say our of operational excellence for the large programmes lead the industry.
number of employees touched by it.
As a leading employer of engineers and Board of directors manufacturing experts, we are naturally In May, Meggitt Group Finance Director committed to maintaining the industry Stephen Young succeeded Terry Twigger pipeline of expertise.
This will undoubtedly as Chief Executive.
Terry spent 12 years be stimulated by the opportunities arising nine with Stephenquadrupling Group from the UK governments commitment to revenue and increasing profitability co-funding investment in the aerospace fivefold.
Doug Webb, who succeeds and defence industry.
As a business we Stephen, has held senior financial We have grown Meggitt with are picking up the baton, developing positions across a broad range of young talent, sponsoring students with great determination, based on industries.
Before joining Meggitt, Doug engineering aspirations through the was Chief Financial Officer of London clear-cut principles and Arkwright Scholarship Trust.
In turn, Stock Exchange Group plc.
practicethe fair and impartial they are benefiting from mentoring by engineering graduates from our own David Robins will be retiring from the conduct of business that is highly successful international graduate Board following the AGM on 7 May 2014 fully compliant with applicable development programme in which we take after 12 years of service as a noncare to engage bright minds early in very executive director, during which time laws and regulations challenging engineering projects.
he acted as Senior Independent Director worldwide and integrity in and Chairman of the Remuneration We are also enhancing the professional every business relationship.
development of established Meggitt engineers.
As an integrated Group, careers can now develop beyond business Looking ahead It is more than a decade since I joined units and divisions: we have entered into Meggitt delivered a creditable set of Meggitt as a non-executive director, a partnership with the Institution of results in 2013 despite some operational becoming Chairman in 2004.
Since then, Mechanical Engineers to provide challenges and weakness in some the Group has become progressively continuous training, management and markets, most notably the highly profitable integrated, revenue has increased leadership development: and we are taking civil aftermarket.
threefold and employee numbers have care of our subject matter experts, doubled.
We have enjoyed growth ensuring that those who wish to remain Sequestration of US defence funding organically and by acquisition, which has expert in their fields have career paths as continues to generate uncertainty.
brought new capabilities and reinforced promising as those who move into However, our flexible manufacturing base Meggitts smart engineering for extreme management roles.
This includes plans enables us to redirect activity where environments.
for a Technical Fellowship programme demand remains strong, while retrofit, to reward those at the pinnacle of upgrade and outsourcing opportunities achievement in their chosen field.
continue for Meggitt, as in the past, from Investing for growth greater utilisation and extension of Meggitt continues to expand its market existing programmes.
Doing business the right way positions and capabilities through We look forward to making further investment in research and development, We have grown Meggitt with great progress in 2014 and beyond, driven by a facilities and, most important of all, its determination, based on clear-cut highly resourceful workforce, underpinned people.
They are the backbone of our principles and practice.
There is zero by a resilient installed base of equipment, business and I would like to take this tolerance for anything other than the fair highly cash-generative business model opportunity to thank them for their hard and impartial conduct of business that is and robust balance sheet.
fully compliant with applicable laws and regulations worldwide and integrity in We benefit from a talented workforce every business relationship.
across all disciplines, which we build on with Group-wide career opportunities and Meggitt was one of the first companies training at all levels.
We place special to commit to comprehensive integrity emphasis on leadership development policies, programmes and practice within executive influencing, training in vital its aerospace and defence business front-line supervision, plus strategy operations when we signed a Statement Sir Colin Terry Chairman development work for future Meggitt of Adherence to the Global Principles of leaders within programmes tailored by
