Melrose Industries PLC 10 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Chairmans statement I am pleased to report our 11th set of The current shareholder investment in Trading annual results since flotation in 2003.
Melrose, net of annual dividends and The speedy and rigorous implementation allreturns of capital since 2003 totalling of restructuring projects in our 2012 2013 has been an extremely busy year 1.5billion, amounts to approximately Elsteracquisition produced an equally foryour Company.
Our market capitalisation swift improvement in operating margins successful integration of Elster, acquired atthe current share price amounts to ahead of our best expectations which in2012, as well as the disposal of five 3.5billion, meaning that approximately led to an increase of over a third in Elsters businesses from our FKI acquisition in 3.0billion of shareholder value has profits in its first full year.
Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and beencreated over the period.
we have raised our expectations of what Harris were sold during the year for a total Elster can achieve and the outcome to of 950million, representing a more than We are proud of this achievement in date is very encouraging.
tripling of their value for shareholders growing shareholder value and the Board, during the fiveyears of Melrose ownership.
on behalf of shareholders, recognises the As we indicated, despite the subdued Associated with these sales and in efforts of our employees and thanks them order books of recent periods, the line with our proven strategy, a return for their outstanding contribution to this.
remaining FKI businesses of Bridon and ofcapital of approximately 600million Brush maintained their operating margins was announced on 21 January 2014 and Results for the Group a good performance.
The recent and waspaid on 28February 2014.
Two large These financial statements report the continuing level of investment in these two businesses from the FKI acquisition, results for the Group for the year to businesses means that the medium-term Brush and Bridon, still remain in the Group.
31December 2013 and comparatives outlook remains positive but weakness forthe previous year.
inspecific market areas may hold back growth in the short term.
Revenue from continuing businesses 1 Headline diluted earnings forthe year was 1,732.8million Operating cash generation remains a major 2 2012:1,051.1million and headline profit focus and this has been another excellent per share before tax before exceptional costs, year.
This, together with the proceeds 3 exceptional income and intangible asset fromdisposals, has meant a substantial 12.8p 36% amortisation was 226.1million reduction of net debt to 141million at 2012:117.9million.
theyear end from 998million last year.
The return of capital after the year end has Adjusting for the five disposals in the year, returned debt to our more usual levels.
headline diluted EPS before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible Dividends Dividend per share asset amortisation on continuing The Board proposes to pay a final businesses was 12.8p 2012 proforma: dividend of 5.0p per share 2012: 5.0p.
This will be paid on 15May 2014 to those shareholders on the register at 22April Further details of these results are 2014, subject to approval at the AGM contained in the Finance Directors review.
This gives a total for theyearof 7.75p per share 2012: 7.6p.
We continue to pursue a progressive 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
3 Assuming a full years ownership of Elster in 2012, as explained in the Finance Directors review.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 11 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Last year was a tremendous year for 4 billion Melrose with great successes in the market capitalisation from 13 million in 10 years improve and sell parts of our strategy.
Almost 1 billion was raised from disposals which trebled shareholders 3 billion of shareholder value created money and Elster increased its profits by over a third in our first full year of ownership.
We are ready and keen to 27% buy again but we remain patient for average annual return on investment theright opportunity to arise.
since first deal in 2005 Board changes be filled by Justin Dowley, following the Outlook Miles Templeman, our Senior nonconclusion of this years AGM.
Liz Hewitt The recovery from the financial crisis of executive Director, will be stepping down will chair the Nomination Committee with 2008 has been slow, anaemic and patchy.
at the conclusion of the AGM in May.
He effect from the end of the 2014 AGM.
Much of our growth in recent years has has been a director since our inception in been from margin improvement rather 2003 and in this time his experience and Strategy than revenue growth.
In common with judgement have been highly valued by the Our strategy of buy, improve, sell is by many other companies, sales growth Board.
We will miss his distinctive input.
2013 was a highly remains challenging and we face a successful year particularly in the improve headwind from the current strength of At the same time we were delighted and sell categories.
However, there is more margin towelcome Liz Hewitt to the Board on improvement in operating margins at improvement still achievable which, 8October 2013.
Liz has an excellent Elster is a tribute to the strength of our together with the inherent strength of our background and experience in areas very management teams.
But this did not dilute businesses and the continuing recovery relevant to Melroses operations and we are our focus on realising the value in several inmost of the worlds economies, gives already benefiting from her contribution.
of our FKI businesses, nor in returning usconfidence over the medium term.
As stated before, we Following Miles departure, Perry are now actively looking for an appropriate Crosthwaite will become our Senior nonopportunity to repeat the success of our executive Director.
Perry will simultaneously previous acquisitions.
This is a rigorous Christopher Miller relinquish his position as Chairman of the process and we will take as long as is Chairman Remuneration Committee, a role that will necessary to identify the right company.
5March 2014 The Board Board composition We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and consider Executive Chairman 1 1 it critical for upholding our business integrity wherever we work around the world.
Executive Directors 3 Non-executive Directors 5 5 3 Christopher Miller David Roper Simon Peckham Geoffrey Martin Executive Executive Chief Executive Group Finance Chairman Vice-Chairman Director Industry background Finance 6 3 Industry 3 1 2 6 Miles Templeman Perry Crosthwaite Justin Dowley John Grant Liz Hewitt Senior nonNon-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive executive Director Director Director Director Director 1 M iles Templeman will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting to be held on 13May 2014.
2 Liz Hewitt was appointed to the Board on 8October 2013.
