CHAIRMANS STATEMENT IT GIVES ME GREAT PLEASURE TO REPORT ON MERLINS PERFORMANCE FOR 2013.
THIS WAS A LANDMARK YEAR FOR THE COMPANY AS WE ACHIEVED OUR SUCCESSFUL LISTING ON THE LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE, A REFLECTION OF THE GROUPS CURRENT STATURE, OUR PROSPECTS FOR FUTURE GROWTH, AND THE REGARD INVESTORS HAVE FOR OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM.
WE START THIS NEW JOURNEY WITH AN EXPERIENCED AND HIGH CALIBRE BOARD WHICH WILL ASSIST ME IN THE STEWARDSHIP AND GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY.
Trading performance In terms of trading performance, this was another record breaking year for Merlin Entertainments, with growth coming from both new openings and our existing estate of attractions.
The major acquisitions of recent years arising from the Groups expansion into the Asia Pacific region are fully embedded and delivering strong returns.
This gives me considerable confidence in our ability to manage future expansion into that region.
In addition to the substantial growth we are driving in Asia Pacific, we see North America as the other major area of opportunity.
It was also reassuring to see that, despite persistent economic issues in southern Europe in particular, our European businesses overall performed better this year following the one-off challenges Sir John Sunderland of 2012.
Non-executive Chairman Stock exchange listing On 13 November 2013 Merlin Entertainments plc completed its premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The IPO was met with significant demand and was oversubscribed amongst both institutional and retail investors.
Merlin was admitted to the FTSE 250 index in December 2013 and the shares have continued to perform well.
Governance and board Part of my work this year has been to ensure that Merlin has a Board of Directors with the experience and calibre appropriate for a company with our ambitions.
I am delighted that Charles Gurassa joined the Board in 2013 as Senior Independent Non-executive Director, Ken Hydon and Miguel Ko joined as independent Non-executive Directors and I look forward to welcoming Fru Hazlitt who will join as independent Non-executive Director in April 2014.
Alongside the Executive Directors, they join three experienced colleagues Sren Thorup Srensen, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas.
They bring a great variety of strengths, skills and experience to the oversight and governance of the Company.
10 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This was another record breaking year for Merlin Entertainments At the time of the IPO three colleagues who had previously Our people represented our pre-IPO major shareholders stood aside.
Joe I would finally like to thank our management and employees Baratta, Thomas Lau Schleicher and Pev Hooper all helped guide around the world for their leadership and dedication respectively Merlin towards its IPO and I thank them for their significant during 2013.
During this time the Merlin team delivered a contribution over the years.
significantly improved trading performance whilst simultaneously enabling the Companys Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Subsequent to the IPO the composition of the Board does not This is an exceptional achievement and one of which they can yet fully comply with the recommendation of the UK Corporate all be justifiably proud.
Governance Code 2012 in that it stipulates that at least half the Directors excluding the Chairman should be independent of the 2014 Outlook Group.
Merlin is committed to becoming fully compliant With the peak trading season ahead of us, trading to date has during 2014. been in line with expectations.
Merlin has a proven and sustainable growth strategy and an experienced and committed Within our evolved governance structure, I chair the Nomination management team.
While economic uncertainties remain, Committee, Charles Gurassa now chairs the Remuneration particularly in southern Europe, we are confident about the Committee and Ken Hydon the Audit Committee.
Their reports outlook for 2014 and beyond.
can be found in the Corporate Governance section of this report on pages 60 to 75 and 54 to 59 respectively.
As we noted in our IPO Prospectus, Merlin intends to adopt a progressive dividend policy for its shareholders and to pay our I continue to chair the Health, Safety and Security Committee first dividend later this year.
which ensures that these risk matters are managed properly throughout the Group.
Merlins number one priority is delivering memorable, safe experiences to visitors and the Company puts the health, safety and welfare of both its customers and employees at the forefront of its operations.
The Groups Sir John Sunderland approach to safety management is based upon proactivity and Non-executive Chairman continuous improvement to mitigate this risk.
All incidents are 26 February 2014 recorded and reviewed to identify any trends or issues that need addressing and relevant learning points are shared across the business.
Corporate social responsibility With my Board colleagues I also oversee Merlins contribution to corporate social responsibility.
SEA LIFE campaigns tirelessly on conservation issues prioritised around breeding, rescue and the protection of the marine environment.
We launched the SEA LIFE Marine Conservation Trust in 2013 as the focus for our future conservation efforts, and a series of fundraising events and campaigns is planned for 2014.
Our own childrens charity, Merlins Magic Wand, had its biggest year yet.
We helped more ill, disabled and disadvantaged children than ever to visit our attractions, and continued our outreach programmes with new themed areas installed at childrens homes and hospitals at a number of new locations.
We also seek to continually reduce the environmental impact of our business and will report more fully on this important area in future years.
