CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM In last years Chairmans Statement I mentioned that a higher Looking Ahead proportion of women on our Board would not only bring Our priorities for 2014 are clear.
We will continue to refine different skills and perspectives, but also support our gender and execute on our organic growth strategy.
We will enhance diversity objectives across the Group.
So we are delighted the development of our worldwide leadership team.
We will that Danuta Gray joined our Board in December, adding maintain and strengthen our performance culture.
We will considerable international line leadership and non-executive continue both the roll-out of our improved operating systems experience as well as a strong technology background.
and the efficiency improvements of our support teams.
Your Together with Ruby McGregor-Smith, our Senior Independent Board will concentrate on supporting and challenging the Director, women now make up 40% of our independent executive management to ensure this happens.
non-executive directors and 29% of our Board.
Over 80% of our Board members also have considerable international PageGroup continues to grow, develop and change.
This is critical given the global nature cease to be impressed by the can-do attitude of PageGroup of PageGroup.
people as they grasp the challenges and the opportunities that the economy and this dynamic business provide.
There is much more on our Board and our governance, including the results of our independent board effectiveness We are very grateful to them.
review, in our report on Corporate Governance.
Robin Buchanan Strategic Report Chairman Following my statement is the Strategic Report where we 4 March 2014 describe more fully PageGroups performance during 2013, along with our business model, our strategy and the people behind the business.
We also outline the key performance indicators we use to measure our business and the principal risks and uncertainties we face along with our approach to CHAIRMANS STATEMENT corporate responsibility.
2013 has been a year of delivering benefits from the alterations to the management structure we made in 2012, continuing our investment in people and technology, bedding-in our Board and governance changes, and laying the foundations for sustainable future growth around the world.
In each area PageGroup has made good progress.
Performance The macro-economic headwinds which had been holding us back for much of the year started to abate, especially in the USA and the UK.
Continental Europes economic decline slowed and the emerging markets, with some exceptions, have continued to grow.
Within that changing environment PageGroup delivered a creditable performance with gross profit of 514 million, down Robin Buchanan Chairman 2.5% on 2012.
In order to prepare the business for a more favourable global economy, PageGroup management further streamlined our support The Board functions.
We also started the roll-out of our new operating system and related applications, which will improve both our consultants The changes we made to your Board in 2012 have also borne effectiveness and our operational efficiency.
In the last Annual Report I explained that we had appointed a new Remuneration Committee Chairman, David Lowden, and Our focus on sustainable profitable growth is also reflected in were about to appoint a new Audit Committee Chairman, Simon your Boards decision to step up investment across our large Boddie.
Both have performed with distinction during 2013, high potential markets China, South East Asia, Germany, USA adding to the effectiveness of our Board and our governance.
We look forward to the results from those We have also put in place a new remuneration plan for Executive investments in the years to come.
Directors, better aligning their interests and objectives with those Dividend of our shareholders.
The appointment of Kelvin Stagg as Acting Chief Financial Your Board is mindful of the role the dividend has to play in Officer immediately following the resignation of Andrew Bracey delivering shareholder value.
We are committed to increasing the in October reflects the focus we have given to succession dividend over the course of the economic cycle in line with our planning.
Kelvin had already been identified as the leading long-term growth rate.
That way we can maintain a sustainable internal succession candidate given his considerable level of dividend payment during downturns, as well as during experience of the business as Group Financial Controller more prosperous times.
Given our results and our cash position, and Company Secretary for over seven years.
Development we intend to increase the final dividend to 7.25p, which together and succession planning remains one of your Boards most with the interim dividend paid in October of 3.25p, delivers an important priorities.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 5 6 Overview Overview
