2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information Executive Chairmans statement Driving returns for shareholders Introduction Management took the necessary steps North America is our largest region and The year ended 30 April 2013 has been to achieve appropriate margins and cash recovered following a poor start to the year.
a year of solid progress for Micro Focus.
generation through a clear focus on sound North America revenues for the full year on I am pleased to report that we have business operations throughout the Group.
a like for like basis declined by 5.5% to All of our actions are consistent with the seen flat maintenance revenues: licence $189.3m 2012: CCY $200.3m after a revenues of $168.6m 2012: $172.6m objective of returning the business to growth decline of 10% in the first six months.
despite an uncertain macro environment: whilst considering all options to deliver an increase in Adjusted EBITDA to shareholder value.
The average employee headcount during $188.1m 2012: $179.8m, and a the year ended 30 April 2013 was 1,206 continued strong cash conversion During the year to 30 April 2013, 2012: 1,191.
Micro Focus delivered total revenues of was 1,214.
$414.0m 2012: $434.8m which was a Overview and corporate developments decline of 2.4% compared to constant Operating costs before exceptional items, Micro Focus is a software product group with currency CCY revenue for the comparable share based payments and amortization of strong franchises and a robust and sustainable period of $424.2m.
Once the impact of the purchased intangibles Adjusted Operating core business.
Our key value proposition to our $3.4m of revenues generated from the Costs reduced by 11.4% to $230.0m clients is that we enable them to achieve acquisition of CORBA assets from Progress 2012: $259.7m.
On a CCY basis, Adjusted significant incremental benefits from their prior are excluded, on a like for like basis revenues Operating Costs fell less sharply from $252.3m investments in IT by addressing the technical declined by 3.2% to $410.6m on a CCY to $230.0m, with the largest reduction coming challenges that link the old to the new.
Licence fees decreased by 2.4% from cost of goods sold in line with the to $168.5m, 2012: CCY $172.6m, reduction in Consultancy fee revenues.
At the beginning of the financial year we maintenance fees increased by 0.2% expected overall revenue on a constant currency to $226.4m 2012: CCY $226.0m and The stabilization of the revenue and reduction basis to decline year on year.
Modest growth in Consultancy revenues were down, as in costs enabled Micro Focus to report licence fee revenue was forecast to partially planned, by 38.7% to $15.7m 2012: Adjusted Operating Profit for the year ending offset the anticipated decline in maintenance CCY $25.6m.
30 April 2013 of $184.0m 2012: $175.1m, revenue, and consulting revenue would decline an increase of 5.1%.
Adjusted EBITDA in the due to an increased focus and a reduction in Through a combination of maintenance period increased by 4.6% to $188.1m loss making revenue.
Against this revenue plan and ISV licence revenues we now have 2012: $179.8m at a margin of 45.4% the maintenance fee performance was better a recurring revenue stream of 64% of 2012: 41.4%.
than expected with revenues essentially flat total revenues 2012: 61%.
compared to the prior year, and we accelerated We would like to thank our employees for our exit from non-strategic revenue streams in Despite the difficulties in the second half their continued dedication, commitment and consulting.
We modestly undershot our target of the year in Japan, our Asia Pacific and hard work in delivering the full year results.
on licence fee growth due to significant macro Japan region delivered overall revenue For the year ended 30 April 2013 bonuses effects in US Federal and Japan in the second growth on a like for like basis of 2.9% will be paid to non-commissioned staff and half of the year and errors in operational to $64.1m 2012: CCY $62.6m.
executive management in line with the execution in Borland in North America.
improvement in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA.
Licence and maintenance revenues for Staff bonuses will be approximately 90% our International region on a like for like of the level earned in the year ending basis increased by 2.2% to $149.7m 30 April 2012.
2012: CCY $146.5m benefiting from a strong performance in Latin America.
Total revenues in the region declined by 2.4% to $157.8m 2012: CCY $161.7m due to the planned reduction in Consultancy Fee revenues.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 03 Executive Chairmans statement continued Product Portfolio and Go to Market COBOL applications continue to be at the Borlands Test products Silk, Caliber and Our business comprises a number of Product heart of the worlds business transactions and StarTeam have a large addressable market Portfolios.
During the year we acquired the power the majority of large organizations and now have clear product roadmaps and CORBA assets from Progress Software.
Maintaining our differentiated customer propositions.
In May leadership position in CD is at the core of our June 2013, Micro Focus was placed in the The IT industry can be viewed as serving three value proposition.
By embedding our products leaders quadrant of the Gartner Magic main domains: mainframe, distributed and in industry standard IDEs and addressing the Quadrant for Integrated Quality Suites.
Micro Focus products perceived skill issues, COBOL will provide a The challenge for our Borland business is predominantly serve the distributed IT stable base and strong cash flow for the the significant maintenance drag it suffers environment i. e. running on servers deploying Group over the coming decades.
due to the balance between licence and UNIX, LINUX and Windows.
During the year maintenance in its overall revenues.
We are we have made significant developments in Mainframe Solution MS fully aware of this dynamic and have a plan some of our key products to consolidate our 18.1% of revenues to reduce this drag through increasing licence position in the distributed market while also Our MS product set addresses a customers sales.
This has not been effectively addressed enabling us to address mainframe and need to get the most value out of their in 2013 due to missteps in execution.
In the multi-device cloud market opportunities.
The MS strategy was meantime, clear communication of product launched in the first half of the year and is roadmaps and business benefits is increasing Post the acquisition of the CORBA assets we being supported by innovative marketing maintenance renewal rates across the Borland now focus on five Product Portfolios: COBOL campaigns.
Initial feedback from our customers product portfolio.
Development CD, Mainframe Solution MS, and prospects has been very positive and Borland Test, CORBA and Niche.
Visibroker, emphasizes that the positioning is relevant to In September 2012 we announced the our own CORBA based product, has been the current marketplace.
In the second half we general availability of Agile for StarTeam.
combined with the acquired Orbix and saw growth in our Enterprise Server revenues.
This innovative product allows customers Orbacus products to form the new CORBA to regain control of mixed waterfall and Product Portfolio.
We have also transferred In May 2012 we announced the general agile development environments and works some of the products acquired from availability of Enterprise Developer ED Team seamlessly with products such as Subversion, Compuware in 2009 that were previously Edition and in April 2013 we announced Rally and Quality Centre from HP.
In November included within Borland Test to Niche as their Enterprise Developer for z Enterprise.
This we released a further significant version of our characteristics are now closer to this Product product takes our core Visual COBOL technology requirements product Caliber, the first for a Portfolio.
During the year we exited the Java and by delivering it in an Eclipse environment number of years, in response to customer related Consultancy business in Brazil and makes the capabilities available to the mainframe requests to integrate Caliber RM and RDM.
these revenues are now included in Niche.
This release extends our reach and market We have also transferred TM ART from Niche opportunity.
In October we announced that ED These announcements have highlighted that to Borland Test.
As a result of the above, Personal Edition would be available as a free we have many customers on older versions the comparatives for Borland Test, Niche download.
For the first time this has made of our products.
This is something we are and CORBA have been restated.
a world class COBOL development environment addressing in order to smooth the upgrade in a modern IDE available free of charge.
Following focus during the year COBOL Development CD have been over 2,000 downloads, with over the maintenance base in Borland has 56.6% of revenues 10% going on to pay for the chargeable version.
We have continued to invest in and strengthen our core product portfolio of Borland Test 14.6% of revenues CORBA 6.2% of revenues CD.
The CD portfolio delivers products The Borland brand has been relaunched and In February 2013, we purchased the CORBA that enable programmers to develop and the new Borland website is now live.
This assets from Progress Software strengthening deploy applications written in COBOL across provides relevant and helpful content and is our position in this market.
We now own the distributed platforms including Windows, targeted at the Developers and IT decision two leading CORBA products: Visibroker and UNIX and LINUX and the Cloud.
We have makers in customer organizations who use Orbix as well as the Orbacus mainframe product.
introduced further developments to Visual Borlands tools to support and manage the These products provide excellent functionality COBOL and have received a positive response process of software development from and performance to companies with installed from customers and the partner community.
beginning to end in order to accelerate networks with a requirement for high speed, Visual COBOL V2.1 provides the fastest delivery and improve quality.
secure transfer of data between systems.
way for customers to move to Java Virtual As we expect the CORBA products to be a Machine JVM, .
net or Cloud environments higher proportion of our revenues in FY14 whilst protecting their investments and we are now separate identifying them as a intellectual property.
Revenues from Visual product grouping.
COBOL grew strongly in the year contributing in excess of $7m in licence fees.
We have seen a significant number of customers commit to Visual COBOL to take advantage of the opportunities provided by operating COBOL applications in a modern language format in an industry standard Integrated Development Environment IDE.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 04 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information Niche 4.5% of revenues Our strong positioning Our Niche business comprises mature Micro Focus has lways had a strong position in the distributed market.
We are products that are expected to see ongoing leveraging our knowledge base to extend products into the mainframe and enabling revenue decline but that provide good and reengineering products to fully participate in the multi-device markets.
margins and strong cash flow.
We have moved the Visibroker product set out of this category into CORBA for the reasons outlined above.
We are now reporting in this Mainframe Distributed Multi-device enabled category some products that were previously Analytics Enterprise Analyser reported in the Borland Test category that were acquired from Compuware in 2009 Requirements Caliber QA Director, QA Load and Test Partner.
We continue to focus on supporting our Dev platform Eclipse & Visual Studio Product extended Cloud enabled installed customer base but expect this Enterprise Developer product category to continue to decline as a proportion of our business.
We have Languages Visual COBOL exited our Java related Consultancy business PL 1 in Brazil and this Consultancy stream is now reported within Niche: previously it was in Testing Enterprise Developer Borland Test.
Silk Go to Market Management StarTeam Having completed our product roadmaps in the year ended 30 April 2012 we have Modernization Rumba Rumba started adjusting our go to market structures.
In the year ending 30 April 2013 we set out to optimize our channel strategy, Production Enterprise Server both internally and with partners, and CORBA our marketing and lead generation plans.
Progress to date has been mixed, in part because this coincided with an economic New product developments environment which saw a number of customers and partners retrenching, and also due to budgetary restraint and fiscal tightening in many geographies.
We aim to increase sales productivity and We continue to invest in Product We continue to believe that we have predictability further by continuing to improve Development and are excited by the new significant room for improvement in sales Product Management and by generating products that we will be releasing in the productivity and have begun to shift the closer interaction between Sales, Product next year.
Based on our experience over balance between direct and inside sales in Management & Marketing and Product the past six months, we still have significant favour of the latter, and have appointed more Development.
In order to drive greater work to do to ensure that we capitalize on Enterprise Business Representatives to improve interaction with our partners we created the richness of our product offerings and our lead qualification.
Micro Focus This provides a single repository of information will maintain its leadership position in CD As we look forwards to FY2014, our about our products for the benefit of our by continuing to innovate products as is priority is to ensure that we invest in the partners.
Since launch, over 250 partners have evidenced by Visual COBOL.
We will work organic development of the business.
We registered on our Portal with 50% making with our independent software vendors have embarked on hiring 50 new sales repeated use.
However, we have yet to see any and customers to ensure that they can representatives in the first half of the year significant increase in sales through partners.
reap the benefits of this new development and are upgrading our CRM system to assist environment.
MS revenue growth will with salesforce effectiveness.
Since its introduction in July 2012 our Eloqua be achieved by leveraging our partner lead management system has enabled us relationships and ensuring that our direct to increase the contacts in our marketing sales force targets the right opportunities.
database by over 60% and also to increase We will continue to stabilize and improve their quality.
Our email open rate has doubled the Borland business performance by focusing and our lead conversion rate improved by a on clear communication of our strengths in factor of three.
automated, mobile and Cloud Testing.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05 Executive Chairmans statement continued Delivering value to shareholders Diluted Earnings per Share and Dividend per Share The board has adopted a very clear plan cents of value creation.
80 Diluted EPS Dividend per Share 76.
0 Our priority is to improve the business in order to maximize the opportunity to return 64.1 60 to growth.
At the same time we have created flexibility to allow value creation to shareholders 46.2 through cash distributions or acquisitions 40.0 40 as appropriate.
We will do nothing that 36.7 32.0 31.6 will constrain our ability to achieve organic 27.0 23.4 growth and we are currently investing 21.8 21.4 20 15.6 significant amounts on activities designed 13.0 10.0 8.2 to enhance growth.
6.0 0 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 In November 2012 we made a Return of Value to all shareholders amounting to $128.8m in cash 50 pence per share, We have already commenced discussions Outlook equivalent to approximately 78.50 cents per with our banks about our options for a new We believe we have now laid the foundations share, by way of a B and C share scheme, financing arrangement that would enable us to on which Micro Focus can grow in the second deliver inter alia further Returns of Value to our half of the year ending 30 April 2014 which gave shareholders other than certain shareholders.
These conversations have been FY 2014.
Absent significant external events overseas shareholders a choice between receiving the cash in the form of income or very positive to date and will continue over the we anticipate revenue growth of between capital.
The Return of Value was accompanied coming months.
by a 10 for 11 share consolidation to maintain The board continues to target a Net Debt to broad comparability of the share price and Adjusted EBITDA multiple of approximately return per share of the ordinary shares before 1.5 times.
This is a modest level of gearing and after the creation of the B and C shares.
for a company with the cash generating Kevin Loosemore qualities of Micro Focus.
We are confident Executive Chairman Our $275m Revolving Credit Facility RCF that this level of debt will not reduce our ability 18 June 2013 is provided by five banks and expires to deliver growth, invest in products and or on 1 December 2014.
Net debt to RCF make appropriate acquisitions.
EBITDA being our Adjusted EBITDA before Amortization of Capitalized Development In line with our dividend policy of 2 times cover Costs is limited to 1.5 times.
Taking account we are announcing an increase of the proposed of the Return of Value made in November final dividend of 20.1% to 28.1 cents per share, 2012, on a proforma basis our Net Debt at 2012: 23.4 cents per share and an increase in 31 October 2012 would have been $225.5m the proposed total dividend for the year of and based on the reported RCF EBITDA in the 26.6% to 40.0 cents per share 2012: 31.6 twelve months to 31 October 2012 of $199.8m cents per share.
The final dividend will be paid this would have represented a net debt to RCF in sterling equivalent to 17.90 pence per share, EBITDA multiple of 1.13 times.
By 30 April 2013 based on an exchange rate of $1.57, Net Debt had reduced to $177.7m and the being the rate applicable on 18 June 2013, multiple was reduced to 0.86 times RCF EBITDA the date on which the board resolved to for the year of $206.5m.
When compared to propose the final dividend.
The final dividend our Adjusted EBITDA figure of $188.1m, the will be proposed to shareholders at the AGM multiple is 0.94 times.
on 26 September 2013 and, if approved, will be paid on 2 October 2013 to shareholders on the register at 6 September 2013.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 06
