Chairman's statement In 2013, the Group made good progress against its key strategic objectives, whilst delivering record revenue and profit for the year due to recognition of profits from the Glyndebourne development.
This performance demonstrates the strength of the Groups business model as an owner and operator of hotels, with gains generated through timely and opportunistic asset management, in addition to income from hospitality services.
The biggest single element driving in the first and second quarters of capital whilst growing the business.
growth in annual revenue and profit 2014 respectively, have a total value We are looking forward to a year in of 232m.
which we will be fully re-opening all of was the impact of the Glyndebourne development the sale of 147 out of the guest rooms at our largest hotel in The Group was pleased to welcome 150 apartments built on the site of the Asia, the Grand Hyatt Taipei, before Susan Farr as a new Independent Nonformer Copthorne Orchid Hotel in completing refurbishment of the Executive Director in December 2013.
This development public areas and restaurants and Ms Farr has specialist knowledge and generated revenues of 273.7m and creating a truly outstanding five-star experience of marketing, business pre-tax profit of 139.3m, which were deluxe property.
Elsewhere, we will development and corporate continue to maximise the value of our recognised in 2013 following the grant communications and will make a of the temporary occupation permit by real estate portfolio.
We continue to valuable contribution to the business.
be alert to acquisition and disposal In addition, her appointment reects opportunities.
Our renovation programme is the Groups support for the designed to ensure that Group assets recommendations of the 2011 Davies The global economy is not fully maintain and enhance their value in a Report on Board Diversity, with Ms restored to complete health, with Farr becoming the Groups first female pockets of uncertainty continuing to highly competitive global hospitality market.
Ian Batey announced his affect some travel destinations.
refurbishment work at Millennium resignation as an Independent NonHowever, we expect our properties in the main gateway cities to see Hotel Minneapolis and at the west Executive Director, effective on 20 wing of Grand Hyatt Taipei in 2013, February 2014.
The Group is grateful improvements in 2014. with both locations showing a healthy to Mr Batey for his services.
Kwek Leng Beng increase in RevPAR since re-opening.
Chairman I would also like to thank our Our financial position remained strong employees throughout the world for 20 February 2014 throughout the year, which placed the their hard work and dedication to Group in a good position to grow the Group.
With the global In light of the Groups performance economy showing signs of recovery, last year, the Board is recommending hotel capital values have increased, a final dividend of 11.51p per share although at a faster rate than hotel 2012: 11.51p and a special dividend earnings.
In December 2013, we announced the Together with the interim dividend of 2.08p per share 2012: 2.08p, the total proposed acquisition of a leasehold interest in a 5-star, all-suite hotel dividend for 2013 is 22.74p per share located within the Chelsea Harbour 2012: 13.59p, an increase of 67.3% district in London.
Since the year-end, over 2012. we have entered into a conditional In 2014, the Group will continue to agreement to acquire a 4-star hotel in pursue its core strategic objective of Times Square, New York.
The two improving returns on shareholders acquisitions, scheduled for completion 4 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013
