Chairmans statement This has been a year of good progress within your business.
We have strengthened the Board with three independent Non-Executive Directors, continued to make the changes necessary to transform the business from good to great, and delivered a 17% increase in adjusted earnings per share.
Whilst a number of challenges remain, we can look to the future with confidence.
The value creation journey Right Balanced size transformation In FY 2012 we restructured our We are now reshaping the business so Retail Support Centre to reduce that we can consistently deliver great bureaucracy, speed up decision service to our guests to drive repeat making and start the cultural visits and recommendation, while change journey.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 02 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 This time last year, I wrote that my key focus Stewart Gillilands senior management The Company is in discussions with the Trustee for 2013 would be to enhance the balance, experience predominantly in the brewing of the group pension schemes regarding the skills and compliance of the Board through sector is highly relevant to many of the triennial actuarial valuation which is dated as the selection of appropriately qualified challenges that our business faces.
He was at 31 March 2013, in order to agree the funding independent Non-Executive Directors.
Chief Executive Officer of Muller Dairy UK shortfall and schedule of contributions.
We I am delighted therefore that during the Limited until 2010 and prior to that held senior hope to conclude these discussions as quickly last year we have appointed three Board management positions in InBev SA, Interbrew as possible whilst balancing the interests of all Directors of exceptional capability.
UK Limited and Whitbread plc.
a Non-Executive Director of Booker Group plc, Imelda Walsh has brought excellent people Sutton and East Surrey Water Co, Tulip Group Lastly, I would like to praise the efforts of management and retailing skills to the Board Limited, Natures Way Foods Limited, C&C our 40,000 employees.
Our vision is that our and is therefore an ideal person to fill the role Group and Vianet Plc.
guests love to eat and drink with us, and we of our Remuneration Committee Chair.
She has are indebted to all of our people, from our held senior executive roles at J Sainsbury plc, Since I was appointed Executive Chairman restaurants, pubs and Retail Support Centre where she was Group HR Director from 2004 in October 2011, we have made significant in Birmingham, as we work towards this.
to 2010, Barclays Bank plc and Coca-Cola & improvements to our corporate governance.
She is a Over the past two years, the Board has We are now in the balanced transformation Non-Executive Director and Remuneration recruited a strong leader in Alistair Darby stage of our value creation journey.
Over the Committee Chair of both William Hill plc and and has strengthened the Board through the last 12 months we have bedded in the Mothercare plc.
appointments of Eddie Irwin, Imelda, Colin and organisational changes announced last year Stewart as Non-Executive Directors.
In July, we and refined our brand strategies in light of Colin Rutherfords corporate finance and finalised the membership of our Remuneration, changing consumer and market dynamics.
accountancy skills are already proving highly Audit and Nomination Committees and have All this has been achieved whilst still growing valuable to the Board, particularly in his role updated their terms of reference, which are sales, improving operating margin and growing as our Audit Committee Chair.
He was now in line with current best practice.
There remains a lot to Executive Chairman of MAM Funds plc, will continue to be on further improvements do, but the progress we have already made a quoted fund management business from in this area.
An example is this Annual Report gives me great confidence in the future.
2009 to 2011, is a member of the Institute of itself, which we have attempted to make Chartered Accountants of Scotland and more useful and understandable for our Bob Ivell has relevant experience in various public shareholders.
Among other improvements, Chairman and private companies in the leisure and we have included a new remuneration report, hospitality industries.
He is currently provided more information on our market and Chairman of Brookgate Limited, European our brands, extended our key performance Care Group Limited and Teachers Media indicators and included many of the new International Limited.
requirements of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, a year earlier than required.
I hope these changes prove helpful.
Balanced Accelerating transformation forward As this transformation gains traction, the performance of the business will start to accelerate as we achieve our vision that guests love to eat and drink with us.
Adjusted EPS is stated before exceptional items For further information go to the and other adjustments.
Growth against last year is Chief Executives Market and compared to the 52 week adjusted EPS as detailed Business Review on pages 22 to 27. in the Financial Review.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 03
