STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement Gerald Corbett Chairman The addition of the MoneySavingExpert.
com brand to the existing MoneySuperMarket.
com brands gives us significantly greater strength and diversity into the future, improving our ability to execute our strategy of helping every household make the most of their money.
Results and strategic progress early part of 2014 with the launch of our Board composition and diversity Amidst an uncertain economic background, latest advertising campaign.
We have a strong and balanced Board, with 2013 was another solid year for the Group a range of complementary skills to support as revenue increased by 10% from 204.8m We continue to maintain a strong financial the strategic and operational direction of to 225.6m and adjusted EBITDA increased position with good cash generation.
The strengthening of our Board by 26% from 66.5m to 84.0m.
generated from operations during the year last year with further Non-Executive was 73.3m.
After drawing down 60.0m representation has helped to provide The benefits of the strength and diversity of from its loan facility during the year, the further capability to deliver our strategy.
our business model were demonstrated this Group ended the year with net debt of We recognise the importance of diversity at year as our Insurance, Travel and Home 21.1m.
Board level and our Board members have Services verticals all grew, with the Travel a wide range of skills and experiences from and Home Services verticals performing Dividends a variety of business backgrounds.
This helped to offset the Our continued confidence in the underlying lower revenue achieved in the Money strength and growth prospects for our As we announced in December, I will be vertical following the continuation of the business is reflected in our progressive and standing down as Chairman and as a Governments Funding for Lending scheme.
Non-Executive Director in April 2014 following our Annual General Meeting.
In its first full year in the Group, Having reviewed the cash required by the MoneySavingExpert.
com had a strong year business and the performance of the It has been a great experience chairing the with the launch of its Cheap Energy Club Group, the Company paid a special Group through its flotation, the credit helping consumers to make savings on dividend of 12.92p per ordinary share on crunch and the strong growth in the their energy costs.
The addition of the 26 July 2013 and an interim dividend of business that the management team has MoneySavingExpert.
com brand to the 2.16p 2012: 1.80p per ordinary share on delivered.
It is only looking back that one existing MoneySuperMarket.
The interim dividend appreciates just how big a journey the TravelSupermarket.
com brands gives us paid represented an increase of 20% on Group has been on.
The transition from a significantly greater strength and diversity the interim dividend paid in 2012. fast growing, entrepreneur led private into the future, improving our ability to company, to becoming a fully-fledged public execute our strategy of helping every During the year, the business continued to company, professionally managed at every household make the most of their money.
generate cash, and with the business level, producing steadily improving profits growing, the Board is recommending a final and dividends, has been exciting.
During 2013 we continued to make dividend of 5.12p 2012: 3.94p per ordinary significant investments in our marketing share, representing an increase of 30% on Bruce Carnegie-Brown, who joined the strategy, including the strengthening of our the final dividend in 2012.
If approved by Group as a Non-Executive Director in April digital marketing capability and the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual 2010, will succeed me as Chairman.
With his continuation of our Youre So General Meeting, this will bring the total wealth of experience, Bruce is the ideal MoneySuperMarket advertising campaign, dividend for the year to 20.2p 2012: 5.74p person to work with the management team both of which helped to drive visitors to the per ordinary share and will be paid on 2 May on the next phase of the Groups Groups websites.
We have continued the 2014 to all shareholders on the register on development.
Youre So MoneySuperMarket theme in the 21 March 2014.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10 STRATEGIC REPORT It has been a great experience chairing the Group through its flotation, the credit crunch and the strong growth in the business that the management team has delivered.
In November, we also announced the Employees appointment of Matthew Price as Chief Our results this year once again reflect the Financial Officer.
Matthew is an dedication and quality of our employees.
experienced senior finance executive, who We rely on the skills, experience, joins us in April, replacing Paul Doughty competence and hard work of our people who has decided to step down from the to drive our business forwards.
I would like to thank Paul for his passion, innovation and performance significant contribution to the Group and remains a key asset for the Group and its welcome Matthew to the business.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our employees Board effectiveness for their contribution this year.
As Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its Outlook effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The new year has begun steadily and, whilst The Board is responsible for the Groups we remain alert to the continuing strategic development, monitoring uncertainty in the wider economic achievement of its business objectives, environment, including the impact of the oversight of risk and maintaining a system Funding for Lending scheme on our Money of effective corporate governance.
business, we are confident that we will continue to grow in 2014.
Our great brands, Governance strong market positions, experienced The Board takes its responsibility to people, scale and breadth of offering are maintain sound governance seriously.
It is the basis on which our business is built committed to high standards of corporate and will remain key strengths in the governance and supports the principles laid coming year.
down in The UK Corporate Governance Codes published in June 2010 and September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council Codes.
Gerald Corbett Chairman The Corporate Governance Report together with the Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 48 describe how the principles of the Codes are applied by the Group and reports on the Groups compliance with the Codes provisions.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11
