CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT We are pleased to report that the group made good trading progress throughout last year and that this has continued into the new financial year.
This is despite the continuing difficulties in the economy as a whole and for consumers and retailers in particular.
We have achieved these positive results by maintaining a clear focus on improving the product, presentation, value and service to our customers.
In addition we have invested heavily in our online systems, new customer recruitment, international expansion and concept stores which have the potential to be significant growth drivers in the medium term, although they reduce profits in the short term.
The early signs from these activities look promising.
Financial Results 52 wks 53 wks 52 wks m 2013 2012 % 2012 % Revenue 784.7 753.2 4.2 740.3 6.0 Operating profit 102.2 102.0 0.2 99.1 3.1 Adjusted profit before taxation 95.1 95.6 -0.5 92.7 2.6 Adjusted earnings per share p 28.15 28.91 -2.6 28.16 - Total group revenue increased by Net borrowings at 2 March 2013 6.0% to 784.7m versus the 52 week reduced to 188.7m 2012, 192.5m comparative and by 5.5% on a likedespite the continuing higher level of for-like basis, excluding the noncapital expenditure of 25.0m, primarily comparable periods for newly opened for online and stores development.
Having seen a reduction in the Net finance costs increased from rate of gross margin in the first half of 6.4m to 7.1m, covered 14 times by 1.6%, an equivalent increase in the operating profit.
Gearing has fallen second half resulted in an unchanged from 48% to 42% on net assets which rate for the year of 53.0%.
Operating profit was up by 3.1% to Trading Highlights 102.2m, after accounting for losses of 6.8m from the expanded customer The results for the year show the recruitment programme, international benefit of a portfolio of brands and trading and the Simply Be Jacamo the breadth of our product range stores.
Excluding these items core UK which has enabled us to allocate our home shopping profit rose by 7.9% to marketing investment to those areas 109.0m, despite the tough economic giving the best return.
we have seen the fastest growth, 15%, from our younger brands, such Profit before taxation was 96.4m as Simply Be, Jacamo and Fashion 2012, 96.9m but was up 2.6% to World, as it has been easier both to 95.1m after excluding the impact of recruit new customers, predominantly the 53rd week last year and the fair online, and get higher sales from the value adjustments to financial existing customers.
brands targeted at the over 50s, Adjusted earnings per share were such as JD Williams, Fifty Plus, 28.15p, almost identical to last year Marisota and Julipa have exhibited despite a slightly higher tax charge slower growth, 1%, as these customers of 17.6% 2012, 16.4%.
The board is have continued to be cautious with proposing a final dividend of 8.23 pence their spending.
However this group per share, up 6.3% on last year, giving a did increase revenue by 3% in the total dividend for the year of 13.68 pence second half compared to flat sales in up by 5.0%, and covered 2.1 times.
08 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 The continued investment to make our We started the new financial year with a chairman of the group.
I have very websites match best practice has been stronger customer base than a year ago much appreciated his wise counsel rewarded with an increase of 15% in as a result of the increased investment over the last few months.
online revenue to 424m, which now in customer recruitment.
We intend to Angela Spindler, currently the chief represents 55% of home shopping maintain this higher level of recruitment executive of The Original Factory Shop, revenue.
The increase also reflects the activity and continue to drive the will join N Brown Group as chief executive cultural changes we are making in the proportion of our revenue transacted on 1 July 2013.
She has had extensive business to have everyone thinking online through positive trading actions, retail and consumer experience at Coca from a multi-channel perspective.
whilst at the same time reducing the Cola, Pedigree Petfoods, Asda and volume of catalogue mailings through Revenue grew in all our major product Debenhams.
Angela will take over from our contact optimisation programme.
Ladieswear recovered from our current chief executive, Alan White, The trading teams are being reorganised a first half decline to grow by 4% in the who will retire to a plural career after to give greater focus on the key brands second half, and by 1% for the year as 11 successful years as chief executive and the product development required a whole.
Footwear and menswear grew and after an appropriate handover period to deliver growth in market share.
In by 5% and 8% respectively, capitalising to effect a smooth transition.
addition we are looking to give our on our size and fit expertise.
However Nigel Alliance OBE retired in December customers more choice by offering the fastest growth came from the home 2012 having been a director of the more options for payment, delivery and gift category where sales grew board since 1969 and Lord Stone of and ways to contact us.
by 15% and now account for 30% of Blackheath stepped down after 10 years group revenue.
The more aggressive Dedicated websites for Marisota and service on the board.
We thank them pricing policy on key value indicator Jacamo are being launched in the USA both for an outstanding contribution.
lines in home and gift drove sufficient to complement Simply Be to deliver a incremental volume to cover the lower more segmented offer and maintain We have now announced three new rate of gross margin and, coupled high growth momentum, and Figleaves non-executive directors who will with extensions to the product ranges, is also looking to boost sales there.
enhance the diversity of the board as especially online exclusives, resulted in We will identify possible new sites for well as ensure we comply with best an encouraging performance.
UK store expansion in the autumn practice in corporate governance.
Ron once we have fully evaluated the McMillan was deputy chairman of Our international expansion is focused potential of this channel and developed  in the Middle on building a presence in the USA, the essential features for a roll-out.
East and will become chair of audit later where revenue rose by 75% to 8.4m.
this year and also our senior independent We continue to believe there is a major There are also major projects director.
Fiona Laird, the senior vice strategic opportunity for the group to underway to assess the requirements president of human resources at win a share of the $35 billion plus size of our information technology systems Unilever PLC, will chair the remuneration ladieswear market in the USA, and and processes and the operational committee.
Simon Patterson, managing we are building the marketing and capacity to ensure we can manage our director at Silver Lake, will chair the operational capability to achieve this.
anticipated growth in the medium term.
nominations committee and brings We traded from seven Simply Be Although we expect market conditions extensive knowledge of the global stores in the UK, three of which had a to remain challenging, based on the technology industry including digital Jacamo menswear section, and these stronger customer file and the planned media and e-commerce.
dual fascia stores have been the most activities to drive further growth, the There has been significant change at the successful.
We are now evaluating the board remains confident in the outlook Board in the last few months.
I wish to potential for rolling out this format in for the business.
I would like to thank record my thanks and congratulations other major UK cities, recognising that all stakeholders in the business for their to the departing directors, particularly they help to build brand awareness contribution, and especially all of the Alan White as CEO, who have delivered and online penetration in addition to staff for their hard work and dedication strong growth and returns for investors the revenue transacted in the store.
As the business continues its migration online, they Current Trading and Outlook Board Composition have left strong foundations and I am Sales for the 7 weeks to 20 April My appointment to the board in July confident that the new board has the 2013 are up by 6.3% on last year and 2012 and accession to chairman in right blend of skills and experience to by 6.1% on a like-for-like basis.
The September 2012 was the start of build on those foundations and deliver cold weather in this period has had a a significant transformation of the growth in the future.
significant negative impact on the sales board which will be completed during of summer clothing but we have seen 2013.
I succeeded Lord Alliance of good performances from menswear Manchester CBE when he stepped and home and gift which have more down to the role of non-executive than offset this issue.
director after over 40 years as Andrew Higginson N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 09
