Strategic Report: Chairmans statement Building a sustainable business a strong credential for other international opportunities, where the development and liberalisation of public transport are common themes.
I believe these opportunities can add further to the shareholder returns that we generate from our core businesses.
2013 results In 2013 we delivered a normalised profit before tax of 143.7 million and a statutory profit for the year of 58.3 million.
We generated over 180 million of free cash flow, which we have used to reduce net debt, fund ongoing investment in our fleet and invest in new business development.
Sir John Armitt Dear shareholder, Our Board policy is to maintain debt gearing I am pleased to report that National Express Chairman between 2 and 2.5 times EBITDA and we has delivered another year of good financial 27 February 2014 continue to achieve this.
I am pleased to see and operational performance.
Our core non-rail that total shareholder return of 41% for the year businesses have continued to make progress, has reflected the performance and progress achieving a record normalised operating profit we have delivered.
and producing excellent free cash flow.
Dividend Delivering our strategy We have a clear, sustainable dividend policy Our portfolio of bus and coach operations in to pay a dividend that is covered approximately different geographies is a key strength.
First, twice by our non-rail earnings.
The Board our services deliver excellent value for customers, is recommending that the final dividend meeting the needs of the challenging economic is increased to 6.75 pence, which, when environment National Express companies play added to the interim dividend of 3.25 pence, an essential role in getting passengers to work, represents an increase of 3% for the year as to school and to see family and friends.
Subject to approval by shareholders, our approach to operational excellence, which the final dividend will be paid on 23 May 2014 we are embedding across all of our operations, to shareholders on the register on 2 May 2014. is delivering great customer service, efficiency and safety.
Board Optimising the skills, diversity and experience of The balance of our portfolio means that we the Board is key.
Thus I am delighted to welcome have been able to grow in UK Coach and Jane Kingston as a Non-Executive Director.
North America School Bus, while we have Jane is Group Human Resources Director mitigated much of the impact of recession and at Compass Group and will make a strong government austerity in Spain and UK Bus.
contribution to Board and people matters.
At the same time, we continue to operate the best performing rail franchise in the UK.
This At the same time, Tim Score has stepped has helped us to pre-qualify for three UK rail down from the Board after serving for nine years.
franchises currently out to tender.
It has also I would like to thank Tim for his commitment provided the platform to win our first contracts and contribution over that period, acting as in the German regional rail market from 2015 Senior Independent Director, Chair of the Audit and pre-qualify for more.
Committee and, at one point, Interim Chairman.
Jackie Hunt will take over as Chair of the Audit I am excited by the further opportunities which Committee and as Senior Independent Director.
we see, in both existing and new markets.
During our Board visit to Morocco in 2013, we I greatly value Sir Andrew Fosters support and were able to experience the success that this guidance and welcome his decision to take up market has become for National Express.
Not the offer to remain as a Director until the 2015 only have we now started our third domestic Annual General Meeting to ensure continuity bus concession, in Tangiers, but it is also on the Board.
04 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report pp01-51 Our values and employees Our vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers by consistently At National Express, we have a set of values delivering frequent, high performing public transport services which offer that are at the heart of everything we do.
Operational Excellence now sits alongside Safety, Customers, People and Community.
Excellence These values are demonstrated every day by We constantly strive to be excellent in all that we do our 42,000 committed employees, reflected in the high levels of employee engagement I have seen in the UK, US and other locations around the Group.
Safety The Board strongly believes that it has the We only do what is safe and stop any unsafe behaviour right systems of governance in place to ensure that National Express is delivering on its Vision and Values and thereby has a sustainable Customers and profitable future in its selected transport We place them at the heart of our business and relentlessly meet markets.
We are determined to build on the their expectations good progress that we are already making in every area and will continue to monitor development on a regular basis.
People On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank We develop the talents, reward the exceptional performance and all of our employees for their hard work during respect the rights of all our employees 2013 and their ongoing commitment to National Express.
Community I look forward to 2014 with confidence.
We are active in the communities we serve to generate economic, We have a sound strategy and strong market social and environmental value positions, and a range of business development opportunities that can deliver additional growth and improved shareholder returns.
Sir John Armitt Chairman 27 February 2014 Total shareholder return of 41% for the year has reflected the performance and progress we have delivered.
