Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 04 Chairmans Statement We have a broad spectrum of products operating in high growth technology markets, supported by the worldrenowned .
Oxford Instruments provides customers During the year, Bernard Taylor stepped with high technology tools for use in down from the Board and we would like advancing the frontiers of science, to thank him for his contribution to the improving and assessing the quality of development of the Group.
On 15 January industrial processes and demonstrating 2013, we announced the appointment of compliance to environmental legislation.
Thomas Geitner as a new Non-Executive We have a broad spectrum of products Director.
Thomas brings extensive operating in high growth technology international experience in the technology markets, supported by the world-renowned and engineering sectors, having spent Oxford Instruments brand.
This enables over 30 years in businesses operating us to sell premium products to our across the globe.
Thomas will assume customers and recruit the most highly thechairmanship of the Remuneration skilled people on a global basis.
Committee at this years Annual General Meeting AGM.
We are pleased to announce Nigel Keen The Group continues to make good that Jennifer Allerton has today joined progress.
We have seen organic sales theBoard as a Non-Executive Director.
Chairman growth supplemented by acquisitions Jennifer has extensive international andfurther improvement in our margins business experience, having spent most in line with our 14Cubed objectives.
In ofher career in large companies operating In summary todays uncertain environment, customers across the globe, particularly in emerging continue to invest in research at the cutting markets.
In addition, Charles Holroyd and Oxford Instruments has a culture edge of science and in making their Mike Hughes will be stepping down from of inclusivity which values the manufacturing processes more efficient the Board at our forthcoming AGM.
As a roleof the individual and through the use of innovative technologies.
result of these changes to the Board, the constitution of the Board will be compliant rewardscommercial success Oxford Instruments has a culture of with provision B.
1.2 of the UK Corporate andtechnical innovation.
inclusivity which values the role of the Governance Code.
individual and rewards commercial Our work worldwide has brought success and technical innovation.
Our The Group is recommending a final together skills and ideas from work worldwide has brought together dividend of 8.15 pence 2012: 7.23 pence, across the business to deliver skills and ideas from across the business an increase of 12.8% over the prior year, to deliver this strong set of results.
On bringing the total for the year to 11.2 pence thisstrong set of results.
behalf of the Board, I thank all our staff 2012: 10.0 pence.
for their commitment and considerable The Group is recommending a achievements this year.
As we enter the final year of our three final dividend of 8.15 pence, an year 14Cubed plan, we are focused on increase of 12.8% over the prior delivering shareholder value in line with year, bringing the total for the the 14Cubed objectives.
Nigel Keen Chairman 11 June 2013 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 05 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 What makes our We meet theneeds of rapidly business successful growing markets andsustainable?
The most The most advanced valuable scientific services tools differentiating our business with four success drivers Quality pages 6-7 Value Brand pages 8-9 pages 10-11 Performance pages 12-13 and securing our future through a targeted strategy.
Our 14 Cubed plan Described in full on pages 16-17 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 06 What drives our success?
A global reputation for quality and excellence One of the key reasons customers purchase Our development process A rich heritage of from Oxford Instruments is the consistent innovation and quality quality of our products.
This is underpinned by continued investment in R&D, which sets us apart increased this year by 6% to 25.1 million 2012: 23.7 million.
The percentage ofrevenue that is made up of products launched or acquired in the last three years is a key indicator of the vitality of our newproduct development.
We turn smart science into commercially successful products using a rigorous five-stage development process that requires checks for quality, commerciality, serviceability and brand at every stage.
Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 07 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Achieving quality Investment in research anddevelopment 25.1m 25.1 23.7 6% 2012 2013 Vitality Index The market leading X-Max large areadetector is used for Energy Dispersive Spectrometry, a technique used to chemically analyse samples no thicker than a human hair inside 41% aScanning Electron Microscope.
It is used, for example, to find defects in products before manufacturing in thesemiconductor, solar panel and harddisk industries, by police forces theworld over to analyse gunshot residue particles, and by material scientists to develop and analyse newmaterials for the automotive andaerospace industries.
Voice of the customer Passionate and committed workforce We listen, develop and test our new Over 1,900 people across the world share technology and products in close awholehearted passion for our business.
collaboration with our customers and Their skills, expertise and years of noR&D projects are initiated without experience are at the core of Oxford cleardirection from our Voice of the Instruments and are the key to our success.
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 08 What drives our success?
Providing value in ourproducts, services and shareholder return To optimise shareholder value, our Acquisitions Our approach means products and services must be of that our products thehighest standards.
We want our customers to value our expertise, always meet our ourcare, the years of knowledge and customers needs partnerships and our constant drive forexcellence.
This manifests itself inourpeople, our processes and ourtechnology.
Targeted acquisitions that add to the range of products we can offer our customers bring highly skilled people into our workforce.
Successful integration of our acquisitions adds value for our customers, our employees and for our shareholders.
Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 09 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 How we measure value Value Add Index 1.55 1.55 1.49 4% Adjusted Operating Profit Employment costs Employment 2012 2013 costs Adjusted return on sales 14.2% 14.2 The X-MET range of hand-held X-ray 1.7pp 12.5 Fluorescence analysers provide our customers with the right tool for the right application: scrap dealers can sort metals: foundries can analyse steels: chemical plants can test alloy pipes: brownfield sites can be tested for hazardous materials: and toys forlead in paint.
Whatever the requirement, a simple pull of the trigger will display the analysis resultsin just one-two seconds.
2012 2013 Focus on efficiency Worldwide network Innovation is not limited to our technology The diversity of our markets and and we recognise and reward ideas that applications, supported by our drive organic growth by improving worldwidenetwork of service engineers, efficiencies and increasing margin distributors and agents, has provided a performance through our annual stable and highly valued platform from Chairmans Awards for Innovation.
which to grow the business.
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 10 What drives our success?
Before opening our wholly owned subsidiary in India, we conducted extensive research based on how ourbrand is viewed locally, what messages would resonate and what channels are most effectively used.
This gave usunprecedented insight and information with which to build our strategy for growing our business in India.
It is now a model we adopt forall emerging markets.
The first commercial spin-out from Employee brand The strength of the Oxford University in 1959, Oxford Oxford Instruments Instruments has grown into a global brand recognised for technological brand is the foundation excellence, quality and innovation.
of our success Thestrength of our brand attracts new and repeat customers, collaborations with universities and industry, acquisitions, new investors, and importantly, highly skilled and motivated people.
When customers ask for the Oxford, they We attract highly qualified people from knowthey are buying more than a high allover the world who recognise that the performance tool or system.
They are challenges and opportunities provided buying the Oxford Instruments brand.
byOxford Instruments will empower them to reach their full potential.
In return, our reputation as an employer of choice is very high.
Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 11 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 The strength of our brand 2013 Employee Survey An established 73% brand that people Benchmark: 40% trust Engagement score: 73% 73% of employees are rated Champions those who fully understand, and are committed to, thebusiness strategy Our values Inclusive We listen and engage with customers, colleagues, shareholders and partners formutual success.
Trusted We build long term relationships based onintegrity, trust and respect.
Innovative and Progressive We bring skill, experience and openness to new ideas to address the needs of the 21st Century.
Wholehearted We approach what we do with passion, with care and with pace.
A mark of excellence In partnership Voted 2011 Company of the Year and twice We believe that our reputation and our received Best Technology Award at the ability to develop the highest quality UKPLC Awards.
Winner of 13 Queens products are strengthened by collaborations Awards for Enterprise.
with universities, industry, and research institutes.
We strive to be the bridge between industry and academia, pushing the boundaries of science for the benefit of mankind.
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 12 What drives our success?
Our product andbusiness performance are synonymous with success From Quality ISO systems, to Customer Monitoring satisfaction We measure our Surveys, to Employee Surveys and performance at internalaudits, we are passionate about measuring our performance.
We know everystage wehave to deliver products that perform, people that perform, and a business that performs to a consistently high standard, and most importantly we know that we have to maintain those standards.
Every service engineer is required to askhis customer for an assessment of hisperformance.
We consistently achieve feedback in the top percentage bracket, and where we underperform, we react with speed and determination to resolve any issues.
Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 13 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 An outstanding performance Sales 351m 14% CAGR 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Adjusted profit before tax 48.2m Triton is the worlds leading dilution 44% CAGR refrigerator, used to create research environments close to Absolute Zero.
Temperatures below 10 mK can be achieved without the need for cryogens like liquid helium, which issafer, more cost effective and sustainable.
Oxford Instruments Cryofree technology was a world first and enables scientists to manipulate and analyse matter at thesmallest scale.
Triton formed part 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 of the new D-Wave 512-qubit quantum computer bought by NASA and Googlefor research into advanced machine learning.
People Business performance The performance of all employees is The Group is now performing more strongly measured against our values through an than at any time in its history and was annual appraisal process and competencies admitted in to the FTSE 250 index in framework.
The aim is to ensure that Oxford September 2011.
Instruments is able to attract, develop and retain the mix of diverse talented people we need to continue to grow our business and maintain our position as a leading innovator.
