Strategic Report Chairmans Letter Following a turnaround year in 2012, 2013 has been a year of further recovery and expansion.
Allan Leighton Chairman Dear Shareholder PayTV hardware leadership: build Pace is now over two years into the on our position as a world leading Strategic Plan and although there is still Following a turnaround year in 2012, set-top box STB, residential gateway alot of work to be done and opportunity 2013 has been a year of further recovery and media server company: and for improvement, we are well on track and expansion: the business has made against the targets and objectives set at good progress on its Strategic Plan, widen out in software, services the time.
The addition of Aurora further delivered very strong financial results, andintegrated solutions: accelerate strengthens the Boards confidence that and through both organic developments widening out by pursuing opportunities we can achieve our mid-term target and the acquisition of Aurora, has to provide software and services assets 7 of9% operating margin in2015.
created a platform for further growth.
for current and new customers.
Pace is making headway to becoming Dividends a great technology company.
Aurora acquisition The strong performance in 2013 and The acquisition of Aurora represents 2013 has been a year of tangible thetrajectory of the business give the animportant evolution in the Strategic progress, with the Group achieving Board confidence to continue building on Plan and enhances our strategy to grow a22.5% increase in adjusted EBITA the progressive dividend policy that was a broader platform across Hardware, through top-line growth, improved introduced in 2009.
Therefore the Board Software & Services.
Aurora will allow Pace revenue mix, supply chain efficiency is recommending a final dividend of to expand beyond our existing business andincreased operational efficiency.
3.66cents per share, giving a full year and build deeper and more embedded TheGroup delivered strong free cash flow dividend of 5.49 cents per share, a 22% relationships with our customers by taking of $209.0 million, a second consecutive increase on 2012.
The dividend reflects us beyond the home and into network year of over 100% cash generation.
This the robust ongoing cash generation infrastructure.
Network operators have an sustainable strong free cash flow model ofthe business.
ever-increasing need to cost-effectively gives the Company confidence and deliver increased bandwidth to their If you have any comments on my letter flexibility to identify and invest in both customers and Aurora provides equipment orany part of the Annual Report, I would organic and acquisitive opportunities that fulfils this need in an efficient way.
be delighted to hear from you either by which will deliver long-term value to The Company believes that Aurora will writing to me at Pace or by email at ourcustomers and our shareholders.
strengthen Paces position as a marketAllan.
leading solutions provider for the PayTV Strategic review Yours sincerely and broadband industries.
I would Consistent with my statement last year, liketotake this opportunity to thank our the Group remains focused on the shareholders for supporting this acquisition evolution and execution of its Strategic Allan Leighton and believe it will deliver significant value Plan that we communicated to the Chairman to Pace and our customers in 2014 market in November 2011: 4 March 2014 andbeyond.
transform core economics: improve our operating performance and Corporate governance on page 26 to 28 leverage scale: Board of Directors on page 24 and 25 7 Operating margin is adjusted EBITA as a percentage of revenue.
04 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 1 PIC ar13 Front [SM MR].
