CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report strong growth in transactions, net revenue and earnings per Consumer satisfaction share for the period under review.
We are proposing a final dividend of 20.2p per with PayPoint share, together with a special dividend of 15p per share, making a total for the period Consumer satisfaction is vital to any company, of 45.4p, an increase, excluding the special dividend, of 14.7%.
The special dividend especially one like PayPoint, which serves reflects the stronger than expected cash position at March 2013 and our confidence millions of people every week.
Consumer in the companys ability to generate cash and does not impinge upon the companys satisfaction with PayPoint UK retail, which ability to invest in growth.
is independently measured each year, has remained constant at the exceptional level Our retail networks in the UK and Romania delivered profitable growth based on our of 97%-98% for six years, with 86% very strong client base and breadth of services.
We continue to innovate and invest in satisfied.
The majority of customers choose to technology and new services to maintain the premium quality of these retail networks use PayPoint because it is convenient for their and their competitive advantages.
In the UK, growth in prepaid energy transactions lifestyle, close to where they live and because resulted from increases in the number of prepaid meters and tariffs.
Retail services they can pay almost all of their household bills delivered healthy growth, but mobile top-ups continued to decline.
The introduction in the one place.
of the Simple Payment service for the DWP has contributed to growth, but the number of transactions has been lower than expected, as a proportion of the cheque volume it The breadth and variety of payments that can was intended to replace has migrated to other payment methods.
We have continued be made at PayPoint is an important factor to expand our Romanian retail terminal estate by 609 sites and transaction volume in maintaining customer satisfaction.
In Romania, national television advertising helped to improve schemes and services are added to the PayPoint brand awareness and drive increases in market share.
Western Union money transfer portfolio, some customers are carrying out has also contributed to Romanian growth.
three or four transactions at the same time and an even higher proportion 91% of these 1 Our parcels service has been increasingly profitable.
Parcel transactions have more heavy users are very satisfied with PayPoint.
than doubled to 7.7 million 2012: 3.8 million, driven by consumers appetite for click and collect.
Collect has increased the number of clients it serves to 212, from 126 at 25 March 2012.
Transaction numbers have grown in all services, including consumer deliveries, sold through the Collect website, Amazon, eBay and resellers.
We now have contracts with Amazon for deliveries and returns and with Amazon Marketplace.
We have added more retailers, such as John Lewis, to our list of clients.
We continue to spend money on service improvements, which should help to deliver revenue growth that outstrips the growth in costs.
In our e&m commerce channels internet, trading as PayPoint.
net, and mobile, trading as PayByPhone, transaction growth was 27% and net revenue growth 8%.
Transaction growth in large internet merchants, which generate lower net revenues, dominated and a one off receipt in the prior year caused net revenue growth to be Collect adding value for consumers lower than transaction growth.
Through PayByPhone, we gain valuable insight into Research conducted on behalf of Collect in the development of mobile commerce but this remains an early stage venture.
We 2013 reinforced the importance of convenient have continued to win new clients.
Although conversion into revenue of business delivery.
With most Collect stores open early won remains slow, the potential market for services delivered through mobile phones until late, seven days a week and 40% of all is large.
Extension to other mobile commerce areas offers further potential, but will transactions taking place outside traditional require expenditure in development and marketing.
We have also sought to improve opening hours, the service solves this longefficiency first by concentrating sales efforts on larger opportunities and second, by term problem for consumers.
Further cost reduction opportunities exist, collection points to a retailers own stores including the migration of payments to our internet channel, the technical integration appeals to online shoppers, with 66% saying of which is now complete.
Since the period end, we have brought these two channels they would use the service.
Over half said that under common management to accelerate the synergies in both revenue they would be more likely to shop online with and efficiency.
a retailer that offered delivery to a convenient collection point, thereby removing the risk of We have continued to invest in technology.
We have signed contracts with two missed delivery.
We will introduce single daily settlement with our retailers, reducing retailer banking costs and our exposure to retail agent debt.
In Redesigning the customer experience and e&m commerce, we are planning to replace and upgrade our internet platform.
In making it as convenient as possible is key and PayByPhone, we are developing our technology to open the platform to services other Collect works with over 210 retail brands to than parking and reducing our cost to serve.
enable them to do this via its Click&Collect and returns service.
With a focus on growing For the current financial year, trading is in line with the companys expectations.
its Click&Collect client list, Collect has acted Our retail networks are strong and developing well.
We intend to pursue further as a third party collection point for more than opportunities to grow the retail network, thereby increasing market share in bill 2 million customer orders in the past payment and retail services, including ATMs, in the UK, Ireland and Romania.
expect continued progress in the internet and mobile payment channels.
Together, our businesses provide a strong foundation to deliver value for our shareholders.
Our parcels service comprises the net revenue less direct costs in the UK retail network, less our share of the losses of Collect.
2 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 3
