Directors report - Business review - Group overview Chairmans statement In a challenging year for both South West Water and Viridor, the Group has achieved a profit before tax only marginally below the previous year.
Dear shareholder Business performance On the positive side, Viridor has continued Sustainability and governance Group revenue was down by 2.6% to make very strong progress on its growing The Sustainability Committee of the Board to 1,201 million and profit before tax Public Private Partnership PPP and energy continues to oversee our performance decreased by 1.1% to 198 million.
from waste EfW pipeline with major new in maintaining a responsible approach We continue to maintain substantial contracts having been signed and key to environmental, social and governance cash resources and facilities and we ended planning permissions obtained.
The business review the year with a record level of 1.15 billion.
and similar projects are expected to drive and the sustainability report set out more Viridors long-term profit growth.
fully our commitment to ESG and our Despite the extreme weather events notable achievements during the year which of 2012 13 impacting on aspects of its Dividend include carbon reduction, enhancements operations South West Water performed The Board is committed to its policy to water security, water catchment well, achieving further advances in operating to grow dividends for shareholders by 4% management and resource security efficiency and customer service.
It is on above inflation per annum up to the end and efficiency.
This reflects our continued regulatory contract.
The company has frontconfidence that Pennon Group remains In addition Viridor was ranked Bronze end loaded delivery of the operating cost well positioned to deliver strong growth in the Business in the Community BitC efficiencies required by Ofwat and is now in the medium and long-term.
annual Corporate Responsibility Index, sharing the benefit of its K5 outperformance a major achievement given that it was to date with customers by reinvesting around We are recommending a final dividend the companys first year in the Index.
60 million in further improvements per share of 19.70p, which represents It was also the first company in its sector to services.
a 7.7% increase on last years final dividend.
to achieve ISO 50001 Energy Management This will result in a total dividend for the year System accreditation.
of 28.46p, an increase of 7.3% reflecting Trading was significantly down on last inflation of 3.3% on the total dividend for South West Water won both an inaugural year, with declines in recycling and landfill 2011 12.
We will again be offering a Scrip Institute of Chartered Accountants outweighing the continued growth in joint Dividend Alternative to shareholders in England and Wales ICAEW Finance ventures.
The company has responded in respect of the final dividend for which for the Future Award large business aggressively to these near-term challenges the timetable is given on page 144. category and the Environmental Award which have necessitated site rationalisations, at the Utility Industry Achievement Awards headcount reductions and exceptional for its flagship programme of work charges in relation to asset impairments to improve raw water quality and natural and provisions.
8 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements The Groups governance arrangements Diversity In addition I am very grateful to my Board continue to be reviewed annually to ensure Following on from introducing last year colleagues for their continuing support we develop and improve our governance a Boardroom Equality & Diversity Policy, and significant contribution in what structures and practices taking account which incorporated the recommendations has been a challenging year.
of market developments and new best of the Davies Review Women on Boards, practice guidance.
The corporate the Board has continued to promote equality Outlook governance report on pages 60-71 and diversity across the Group.
We have The Boards priority continues to be sets out the developments in the year had during most of the year 25% female the creation of shareholder value through which include continued improvement representation on the Board but we its strategic focus on water and sewerage of processes and controls, including IT recognise that this will not be maintained, services: and on transforming waste systems, to meet the increasingly at least for a period, whilst the Board through recycling and waste-based complex needs of our businesses.
transition referred to above takes place.
We will still endeavour to achieve a minimum Health and safety of 25% female representation on the Board South West Water continues to focus We continue to strive towards achieving by 2015 and a minimum of 25% female on efficient service delivery, improvements our goal of zero accidents across the Group.
representation in our senior management.
in service to customers and the satisfaction We are pleased to see a significant reduction of its regulatory and legislative obligations.
in the number of reportable accidents Our customers As a consequence it is well on track in South West Water, although we are Vitally important for both our businesses to outperform the K5 regulatory contract.
disappointed that 2012 saw an increase is the provision of the highest possible The company is preparing for the next for Viridor.
The company is redoubling levels of service to our customers, regulatory review PR14 and is well its efforts to drive down the number which is reflected in our Group strategy.
positioned for the Governments of accidents.
Health and safety initiatives legislative changes.
during the year have included prioritising During the year South West Water has employee engagement and training further developed its affordability toolkit Viridor faces near-term headwinds alongside the Groups ongoing focus for customers who are struggling to pay in recycling and the ongoing trend decline on fundamental risk assessment systems their water bills and has a new social tariff in landfill.
The company continues to focus and safety management procedures.
for 2013 14 which is aimed at its most on quality in recycling and delivery of its PPP hard-pressed customers.
The company EfW pipeline which is expected to drive Board succession has also established new partnerships the companys long-term profit growth.
As I mentioned in last years Annual with Age UK to target support for older Report, after 10 years as a Non-executive customers and with housing associations Notwithstanding the current challenges, Director of the Company, Dinah Nichols to engage with low income customers.
I remain confident about the future success will be retiring from the Board at the Annual of our business.
The Group has strong General Meeting AGM.
I thank Dinah for Viridor continues to assist its customers liquidity and funding and is well positioned her considerable contribution to the Board in identifying the most robust and costfor future growth in the best interests over the years including her chairmanship effective waste treatment options in of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
of the Sustainability Committee which has a changing market as landfill diversion managed very successfully an increasingly increases.
It also helps customers to identify complex ESG agenda.
Gill Rider joined us the carbon saving benefits of recycling, as a Non-executive Director on 1 September recovery and good waste and resource 2012 and we plan to appoint a further Nonmanagement, with its carbon reporting executive Director in due course who will tool which is scheduled to be updated succeed Gerard Connell when he retires further this summer.
at the 2014 AGM, after some 10 years Ken Harvey as a Non-executive Director.
Our employees Chairman We know that the skills, commitment Pennon Group Plc After 20 years as Chief Executive of Viridor, and hard work of our employees continue 25 June 2013 Colin Drummond has announced his to be key to the success of our Group.
retirement from both that position and as an We are focused on rewarding, recognising Executive Director of the Board.
I am pleased and developing our employees through that he has agreed to take up the position a number of initiatives and strategies, details of non-executive Chairman of Viridor once of which are given in the business review.
his successor has been appointed.
This is I would like personally to thank every one expected to be by the end of September of them for their outstanding contribution 2013.
I thank Colin for the tremendous to the Group.
contribution he has made to the success of Viridor and Pennon over the last 20 years.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 9
