Corporate Governance page 50 Chairmans review It is a pleasure to introduce Performs third Annual Report as a public company.
It has been another busy year for the Group and these results reflect its good, international revenue growth and a number of material acquisitions.
The results also reflect the challenges for 2014 with margin In January 2014, David Surtees, who had acted as Chief improvement, more effective integration of acquisitions and Financial Officer for the Group since 2008, stood down.
better management information systems all critical to ensure On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank David for his the long-term success of the Group.
significant contribution over the last six years.
David joined shortly after the formation of the Group and has helped to 2013 was a busy year for the Group with year-on-year grow and build the business.
We wish him well for the future.
revenue growth of 37% to 208.1 million 2012: 151.6 million The search to find his successor is underway and we will and the Group achieved profit after tax of 4.6 million make an announcement in due course.
The 3% decline in Adjusted EBITDA to 36.4 million 2012: 37.5 million and the marginal decline As a Chairman and as a Board we view governance as in adjusted basic earnings per share to 10.4p 2012: 11.2p particularly important.
The Board meets regularly to discuss were disappointing and reflected the weaker than expected strategy and holds the Executive team accountable for its performance in the second half of the year in Content execution whilst ensuring that the entrepreneurial culture that Distribution, Technology and Production and Display has seen the Group grow so successfully over the last few Advertising and Sponsorship.
In addition, the pace of the years is maintained wherever possible.
Groups recent growth has led to a substantial increase in the Groups cost base.
As a result we have undertaken a Looking ahead, our priorities for 2014 are clear: full review of our cost base and plans are now underway to selective acquisitions where complementary to the growth address these challenges.
In particular, restructuring plans are strategy and where integration and synergies can be now being implemented, we are accelerating the integration achieved efficiently: of Opta and the roll-out of a new revenue and booking continue to execute the Groups organic growth strategy: system has commenced.
improve margin through more effective management of the cost base: These disappointments over-shadowed the growth of, and improve integration of acquisitions and deliver related the increasing diversification and internationalisation of, the cost savings more quickly: business and a number of important acquisitions, including improve management information systems: and the sports data business Opta and the establishment of the invest in new platforms and in new editorial content to US venture Perform Sporting News Ltd. grow the Groups audiences, in particular across Goal in the run up to and during the FIFA 2014 World Cup Finals.
The growth of the Advertising and Sponsorship revenue streams, both video and display, has been impressive with Finally, on behalf of the Groups Board, I wish to express revenues growing 51% year-on-year and these revenues now my sincere thanks again to all the Groups employees for comprise 23% of the Groups total revenues compared to their commitment and support throughout another very 21% in 2012.
In many cases this growth came through the busyyear.
establishment of in-house advertising sales teams in markets including the US, Canada, Spain, Nigeria and the Netherlands.
Particular highlights during the year include: the start of the process to renew the Watch&Bet service for the period 2014 to 2016: the addition to the Watch&Bet service of National Paul Walker Basketball Association content and the return of over NonExecutive Chairman 2,000 events including Italian Serie A and French Ligue 1 as part of a new deal with the sports agency MP & Silva: the international growth of the ePlayer, with the product now live in 26 territories and delivering over five billion streams across the year with a headline sell-through-rate of48%: the re-brand and re-launch of all 37 editions of Goal: and the successful share placing and resulting acquisition ofOpta.
12 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Financial Governance Statements Strategic Report The Perform Board The Board is responsible for the overall Group strategy, the appointment and removal of any Director, the approval of the Groups annual budget, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditures, the overall capital structure of the Group and consideration of significant financing and operational matters, and the approval of management incentive schemes.
Paul Walker Simon Denyer Oliver Slipper Peter Williams Non-Executive Chairman Joint Chief Joint Chief Senior Independent Executive Officer Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Marc Brown Jrg Mohaupt Peter Parmenter Gabby Logan Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Board diversity Non-Executive Male 7 Directors 5 Female 1 Executive Directors 2 Non-Executive Chairman 1 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
