Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Chairmans statement Norman Murray Non-executive Chairman Petrofac therefore proposes a final dividend of 43.80 cents per share for the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: 43.00 cents, which, if approved, will be paid to shareholders on 23 May 2014.
Further details are provided on page 49.
Given our circumstances, and in accordance with our guidance, growth is set to be at to modest for 2014, but our longer-term prospects remain good.
By expanding geographically, increasing our offshore capability, and extending our credentials in Integrated Energy Services IES, we are on course to become the worlds most admired oileld service company and to secure longterm, sustainable earnings for the Group.
Scrutinising the strategic direction Against this background it is incumbent on the Board to scrutinise systematically the strategic direction, challenge managements thinking, and reassure ourselves that Petrofac has the capability to deliver its strategic goals.
Throughout 2013, we paid particular attention Succeeding in a to the Groups deepwater ambitions.
As part challengingmarket ` of our challenge processes, the Board The long-term prospects for our industry In a tough and thought it necessary to consult with external are excellent.
Through detailed The global appetite for energy will continue competitive deliberations, we concluded that Petrofac has to grow.
Large-scale investments in oil and the right values and credentials to establish gas infrastructure will be needed to meet market, the a differentiated top-tier position in the fastest this demand and offset a natural decline in growing sector of the global oil and gas existing production.
As a result, commercially Board invested infrastructure industry.
innovative, integrated oileld services will be We also scrutinised the progress of the more sought after particularly by national in Petrofacs IES business.
Although not all projects oil companies.
have performed in line with our original future, made We are successfully positioning Petrofac to plans, the achievements of the past prosper in this new environment.
But, right two years are nonetheless significant.
solid progress now, the marketplace is challenging, and With innovative commercial models and our 2013 results reect the realities of the a focus on operational excellence, we are on our strategic situation.
As we have emphasised in all our clearly gaining traction among national oil guidance, competition has been intense, companiesand explorers.
goals, and geopolitical uncertainties abound, and some customers have re-thought and re-phased delivered their investments.
Even so, the Group delivered US$650 million US$650 million in earnings, we continue to deliver differentiated margins and returns, our in earnings.
portfolio is becoming progressively better balanced, and we closed the year with our a highest ever order backlog.
14 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 We encourage all of our Non-executive Setting the tone from the top Reaching a series of Directors to visit other facilities on an The foundation of Petrofacs continued signicantdecisions individual basis.
In previous years, I took success is our distinctive culture, and the I regard 2013 as a pivotal year in Petrofacs part in our safety conference in Dubai, our Board sets out to lead by example.
We see it development, and the decisions made by the leadership conference and EVE Excellence, as our collective responsibility to live up to the Board are a reection of this fact.
Value, Energy Awards, also in Dubai, as values: safe, ethical, innovative, responsive, Given that we are now investing to grow, well as attending our Leadership Excellence quality and cost conscious, and driven nancing is a key consideration, and carrying Programme at the London Business School.
some debt becomes a strategic necessity.
By spending time directly with our employees, Given the nature of our business and The inaugural bond issue that the Board we can better understand what it is about the geopolitical environment, both risk sanctioned and oversaw is, to me, a sign Petrofac that motivates and engages them.
management and safety performance are of the growing maturity of the business.
This feeds directly into Board discussions key considerations.
We paid particular The fact that we received such a respectable about our HR challenges, and gives me the attention to the three fatalities, looked assessment by the ratings agencies suggests confidence in our ability to recruit and retain closely into the individual circumstances that the market has every confidence in our sufficient numbers of Petrofac employees.
and examined the root cause behind each ability to deliver, and allows us to benefit from of these tragic accidents.
In addition, we excellent financial terms.
Looking towards significant, sought consistent assurances that the safety One of the most significant Board decisions of our teams, including our subcontractors, is long-term growth potential of 2013 was to approve the commissioning When considering Petrofacs strategic never compromised.
of a new deepwater installation vessel.
ambitions, it is important to consider In addition, we scrutinised the evacuation of This will provide a unique combination of the Groups record of project execution our In Salah operations in Algeria.
high-end capabilities and will enable Petrofac operational excellence, its success in to build a differentiated top-tier engineering, establishing the IES business, and the We are disciplined in evaluating the procurement, construction and installation disciplined way in which it is extending its performance of the Board itself.
In 2013 we EPCI business focused on high-end offshore capabilities.
A key consideration for appointed an external assessor as part of the turnkey opportunities.
the Board going forward will be to ensure evaluation process.
The assessor observed that this distinctive, delivery-focused culture is our collective performance, the workings As the Group moves into new geographies not compromised.
of each Committee, and my own conduct.
and competes for larger, more integrated We have just received the assessors initial projects, the Board has also been required Succession planning, across all levels and report and will provide a full account next year.
to sanction a number of highly complex areas of the business, will therefore remain bids.
In doing so, we assess the level a key consideration.
Meanwhile health, The composition of the Board is another key of project management discipline and safety, security, environmental and integrity consideration.
In this regard we were delighted  behind them, to assurance will always be high on our agenda that Kathy Hogenson joined us, as a Nonsatisfyourselves that the right mix of risk and, given the nature and day-to-day realities executive director.
Kathy brings considerable andreward is established.
of our business, risk and crisis management sub-surface knowledge, which will help to will remain important to the Board.
Meanwhile we were Staying close to the inner sorry to bid farewell to Maroun Semaan, coLooking forward, our record backlog gives workingsof the Group founder of Petrofac who had been with the us good visibility of revenues through to 2015 With so much happening across the Group, business for 23 years and has made such a and beyond.
We can also be encouraged it is important that our knowledge of Petrofac substantial contribution to the success and by a healthy bidding pipeline and the return extends well beyond the boardroom, and the culture of the Group as well as the quality to a more measured bidding environment.
that we have insights into the realities of the of the Board debate.
We were also sad that This should deliver a performance in line everyday business.
Andy Inglis is leaving us, but appreciate the with our guidance in the coming year, and way he established the IES business, and Each year, two of our Board meetings take position the Group for significant growth in understand his reasons for moving on.
place in our operational locations, and we thelonger term.
make a point of experiencing our business first hand.
In 2013, one of these trips was co-located in Malaysia and Singapore, which allowed us to meet with our customers, partners and our contractors.
We also entered a hard hat environment to inspect the Cendor phase 2 oating production storage and ofoading vessel FPSO conversion in the Pasir Gudang shipyard.
