ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 cHairmanS revieW innOvating FOr tHe Digit al WOrlD Sir JOHn BucHanan Chairman Overview of the year Smart and connected digital devices are increasingly being used 2013 was another successful year for ARM.
by billions of people all over the world, and ARMs technology During 2013, Group revenue grew 22% to isat the heart of many of the chips used in todays electronic $1,117.7 million 714.6 million.
This growth enabled us to invest in both R&D and the products.
Our strategy is to develop and license technology that business infrastructure that underpins future leading semiconductor companies can then incorporate into growth, at the same time as improving their silicon chips.
These chips go into a wide range of mobile, profitability and increasing returns to shareholders.
By balancing increased long-term consumer and embedded electronics from sensors to servers.
investment plans with improving profitability in the near term, we were able to increase the We are committed to hiring and developing some of the most dividend by 27% to 5.7 pence per share.
innovative and imaginative engineers who, together with The 121 licences that we signed in 2013 supporting teams, can develop and deploy next generation demonstrate that we have a portfolio of processors and supporting technologies processors and enabling technologies to our Partners.
thatenable companies to build their products for future electronic devices.
From our customers royalty reports, we know that they shipped more than 10 billion ARMbased chips in 2013 a 20% increase over 2012, as they see increasing demand for low-power smart products from consumers and enterprises.
2014 will bring exciting opportunities and challenges as ARM competes in new markets where we are well positioned to succeed with our leading technology, innovative business model and thriving ecosystem of Partners.
4 Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report The knowledge and creativity of ourpeople and the ability to deliver customer satisfaction in an increasingly demanding and competitive environment are the keydeterminants of our success.
ARMs clear business strategy continues to the arm team on many of the early ARM processors, serve the Group well, as demonstrated by as well as EVP Worldwide Sales and EVP The knowledge and creativity of our people the innovation and quality of our products, Business Development.
He joined the Board and the ability to deliver customer satisfaction and also in the leadership, talent development in January 2005, and as President of ARM had in an increasingly demanding and competitive and strong culture of the organisation.
operational responsibility for the companys environment are the key determinants of our Whilst innovation thrives throughout the wide IP divisions.
We continue to attract outstanding range of mutually beneficial partnerships that expertise and management skills across a people and in 2013 we hired a net 441 make up the ARM Connected Community, range of senior executive roles made him additional employees, the majority of them we must not underestimate the challenges of an excellent choice for CEO and he is highly engineers working in processor design and the wider economic environment, nor of the qualified to take the Group forward.
These new hires were strength and quality of the competition in the a mix of new graduates and experienced chairman succession markets we serve.
talent from all over the world.
In January 2014, ARM announced my decision Success in a challenging environment ceO succession to step down from the ARM Board due to ARM is developing technology for the mobile amedical condition.
My successor is Stuart In March 2013 ARM announced that and embedded computing applications and our Chambers, who brings board andexecutive Warren East, ARMs CEO since 2001, had latest products are opening up markets such experience both in the UK and globally gained decided to retire effective from 1 July 2013. as servers and enterprise networking.
ARM is through his executive and non-executive roles Simon Segars, previously ARMs President facing well-funded competition in both these with global companies.
It has been a great became the Groups CEO from that date.
new areas and also in the mobile computing privilege to serve as Chairman of ARM and I Warren helped to transform ARM during market where ARM hasa large share.
have greatly enjoyed my time on the Board of his time as CEO.
In 2001, ARM had one this fine company.
ARMs Partners are also amongst the processor product line, mainly used in companies developing technologies for the In conclusion, I would like to thank all of mobile phones.
He led the Group to create nascent Internet of Things, where there ARMs employees for their effort and a broad portfolio of technologies in the will be new competitive threats, from new contribution in 2013, including the Board, industry, deployed in a wide range of markets.
ARM will Warren and Simon, and the leadership team.
On behalf of the Board, and the wider ARM remain vigilant, seeking to ensure that we I look forward to seeing ARMs technologies team, deep thanks are due to Warren for his are positioned competitively with suitable unlocking the potential of new opportunities passion, service and leadership.
technology, an innovative business model for innovators across the mobile world and Simon Segars has been with ARM since 1991 andadiverse range of Partners.
beyond and being ubiquitous in the products and has held several executive roles including that we use today and in the future.
EVP Engineering, when he worked 5
