Strategic report ChaiRmanS StatEmEnt In my first presentation as Chairman of Playtech, status in the mobile gambling space.
We see giving a total 2013 ordinary dividend of 23.2 I am delighted to report that the year ending continued development of our mobile offering as cents per share 2012: 23.2 cents per share, 31 December 2013 was another exceptional a means to drive our competitive position and to maintaining the level distributed for 2012 as the period in Playtechs development.
One of the set standards across the industry.
Board committed to at the time of Playtechs most significant highlights was the completion interim results announcement.
Another rapidly developing market for the of the sale of our stake in William Hill Online.
Company is sports betting, where a significant Together, the total distribution of ordinary This transformational transaction delivered a number of achievements have been made over dividends in respect of 2013 and the special substantial return of over 3.5 times the original the period.
Sports betting remains a key focus dividend equate to a return of capital to investment.
Playtech also signed two landmark for growth in 2014 and beyond.
agreements with Ladbrokes to revolutionise the Subject to shareholder approval of the final bookmakers digital offering until 2017. dividend at the annual general meeting, to gOVeRnAnce And Risk mAnAgement The Company has a proven ability to generate be held on 21 May 2014, the dividend will be Playtech is committed to the highest levels value through successful acquisitions, and payable on 23 May 2014 to those shareholders of corporate governance.
As previously management is confident that this will continue.
on the Companys register as at the record date announced on 10 October 2013, Roger The Board, with its advisers, continues to review of 28 February 2014.
The ex-dividend date is Withers retired as Chairman and as a director of the most effective use of the Companys cash 26 February 2014.
Playtech, and I would like to thank Roger for his resources, assessing the potential for further For any shareholders who elect to receive invaluable leadership since we both joined the value-enhancing acquisitions, joint ventures their final dividend in sterling, the conversion Board at the Companys IPO in 2006. and partnerships, particularly focusing on exchange rate from euros into sterling will be Following the announcement of Roger Withers regulated markets.
set on 7 May 2014 and election forms should intention to retire at the time of the interim Playtech is the clear market leader in the be returned to the Companys registrars by results, the Board set about finding a strong, provision of software and services to the global 2 May 2014. independent non-executive director and was online gambling industry.
Its offering includes a delighted to welcome Hilary Stewart-Jones to The Companys dividend policy going forward full product suite, leading-edge management the Board effective 9 October 2013.
Hilary is remains to pay out 40% of adjusted net profit, system, full integration across all player a leading international expert in gambling law supported by strong underlying growth in interfaces and distribution channels and a broad and has over 15 years experience advising earnings and cash generation.
range of marketing services and techniques that companies on gambling related issues.
While there are a number of anticipated enable licensees to maximise the potential of regulatory and fiscal developments in our core their online gambling business.
market place, Playtechs leading position in a diVidends During 2013, a number of additional jurisdictions global, growing industry means the Board is In light of the Companys substantial cash either became or made significant progress confident of the Companys prospects both assets and following discussions with towards becoming regulated markets, creating in 2014 and in the longer term.
In summary, shareholders, the Board has decided to pay significant further opportunities for Playtech.
Playtech has reported another excellent year, a special dividend of 100 million to be paid Management continues to monitor the evolving and continues to deliver on its clear strategy in sterling to shareholders on the register on regulatory environment closely and will continue andstrong balance sheet.
28 February 2014 and payable on 11 March to leverage its leading position and establish 2014, as a second interim dividend in respect itself in such regulated markets which make the of the financial year ended 31 December 2013. most commercial sense.
The ex-dividend date for the special dividend will Following high growth in mobile gambling, a key Alan Jackson be 26 February 2014. focus for 2013 was the continued development Chairman In addition, the Board has today recommended of Playtechs mobile platform, which has a final dividend of 15.4 cents per share, 20 February 2014 propelled the Company to global leader Playtech has reported another excellent year, and continues to deliver on its clear strategy and strong balance sheet.
together, the total distribution of ordinary dividends in respect of 2013 and the special dividend equate to a return of capital to shareholders of approximately 188.5 million.
Alan Jackson, chairman Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Financial statements Governance strategic report
