I am pleased to report further excellent Whilst the burden of further regulatory Chairmans Statement results in what has been a busy and clearance is significant, the potential long challenging year for the business.
Over the term benefits of the merger to shareholders Ronald G. Hanna, last financial year, the business has continued remain attractive.
We will continue to drive Chairman to grow revenue, volume and profit despite a forward the A. G. BARR business whilst, difficult marketplace and background of rising simultaneously, working to achieve the input costs.
Despite these challenges, sales required clearance.
revenue continued the long term trend of outperforming the soft drinks market with Dividend an increase of 6.6% compared to 2.9% The board recommended a second interim dividend of 7.4p per share, which was paid in the market.
to shareholders on 18 January 2013, in lieu of the final dividend, to give a total dividend In summary, total sales were 237.6m for the year of 10.02p per share, a full year 2012 restated: 222.9m and profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 4.3%.
increase of 7.6% on the prior year.
Margins were slightly reduced due to higher cost of goods which were partially mitigated Future Prospects by our cost control and pricing actions.
As a standalone business, we remain Underlying earnings per share increased committed to our strategy of building by 10.9% to 24.7p.
In addition, we will continue to ensure that we have an In September 2012, we announced the efficient asset base capable of supporting potential merger of A. G. BARR p. l. c. with the Groups future growth ambitions.
We have Britvic plc and in November we confirmed made further headway in improving operating our commitment to the merger, subject performance across our asset base and our to shareholder and regulatory approval.
investment in new operational capacity at The merger has the potential to create a the Crossley site in Milton Keynes is making significant European soft drinks business, excellent progress.
We anticipate commercial production will commence at this new facility with a strong portfolio of complementary, in the summer of 2013. company-owned and franchise brands, with long term positive growth potential The U. K. economic outlook remains and considerable short term combination synergies.
However, we remain cautiously in both companies voted overwhelmingly optimistic and believe our future prospects, in support of the merger.
However, the either as part of a significantly larger Office of Fair Trading subsequently referred merged business or on a standalone basis, the proposed merger to the Competition are excellent.
Consequently, the condition to the merger relating to U. K. Underpinning all of our activities are merger control was not satisfied, and in committed and capable teams across the accordance with its terms, the offer lapsed.
business, all of whom have maintained focus However, the boards of both A. G. BARR p. l. c. during challenging and uncertain times to and Britvic plc continue to believe that there deliver an excellent financial performance.
are no grounds for a significant lessening On behalf of the board, I would like to take of competition as a result of the merger this opportunity to thank all of our employees and are co-operating with the Competition for their hard work and ongoing commitment.
Commission to seek clearance of the Overall, the business is well positioned to proposed merger.
If clearance is received deliver long term value for our shareholders.
from the Competition Commission, on terms Our balance sheet and finances are strong satisfactory to A. G. BARR p. l. c. and Britvic plc, the boards of both companies will each and we will continue to follow our proven reconsider the terms of a possible merger.
strategy of delivering growth in our brands through the implementation of our 2013 14 The significance of the potential merger operating plans.
required substantial input throughout the various negotiations and in the related submissions to the Office of Fair Trading.
However our priority was not to lose focus on the business elements within our control, building brand equity, driving sales fundamentals, seeking efficiency gains Ronald G. Hanna and controlling costs, at the same time as Chairman exploring further additional opportunities to create long term value for shareholders.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 03
