Premier Farnell 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Whilst remaining responsive to the challenging conditions in our markets this year, Premier Farnell has been focused on its two principal strategic goals: the continuous improvement of our high service proposition for our customers and suppliers, alongside the ongoing evolution of our business to support the long term interests of all our stakeholders.
Financial performance Although there was stabilisation this year from the volatile economic conditions seen in our 2011 12 financial year, short term business confidence remains fragile.
Premier Farnells strategic focus on optimising business performance hasallowed us to deliver its financial results this year.
The Group managed gross margins in line with the market conditions, while active management of costs provided some protection to the businesss profitability.
This enabled the Group to achieve an industry leading operating margin of 10.1%.
Despite these actions, the weaker sales environment impacted theGroups adjusted operating profit, which declined 7.8% year-on-year.
Although market conditions have been challenging, our financial position remains robust.
The Group has good liquidity and strong free cash ow, with cash conversion at 125.3% and net debt reducing by 7.5 million in theyear to 229.6 million.
The Board is confident that the Groups balance sheet provides a stable and long term funding platform for the business aswe enter this new financial year.
Premier Farnells strategic focus on Valerie Gooding, CBE Non-Executive Chairman optimising business performance has allowed us to deliver its financial results this year.
In considering this years performance, together with both the level of earnings and cash requirements of the Group, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.0 pence per share.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 18 June 2013, this will bring the full year dividend to 10.4 pence per share, unchanged from last year.
Strategic progress Over the past six years, through variable market conditions, Premier Farnells strategy has allowed the business to make progress for the benefit of its stakeholders.
The Board constantly reviews the effectiveness of our strategy and our performance to consider how we can optimise the business to deliver the greatest benefit to our stakeholders.
With a new Executive leadership team in place and with the support of the Global Executive Team, the Board has looked to ensure that the strategy has evolved in order to maximise our performance and capitalise on the areas of greatest opportunity in the changing world in which we live.
This strategy is centred on three core pillars: First, we will focus on customer centric segments of the electronics market with even greater emphasis on listening to our customers needs and partnering closely with our suppliers as together they are fundamental toallthat we do.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 9 Secondly, we will continue to evolve our differentiating multichannel As Chairman, it is my role to lead the Board and ensure its effectiveness.
capability to tailor our customer relationships to their needs and continue The Board has a full schedule of meetings, presentations, training sessions, toenhance the efficiency of our model.
papers and time spent one-to-one between the Executives and the Non-Executive Directors to ensure that the Board functions effectively, Finally, we will continue to internationalise our model with focus on the stays informed and knows the business and its people in depth.
Thebreadth of issues addressed by the Board this year is illustrated on These focus areas, which are described in more detail on pages 16 to 23, page 42.
In addition, Non-Executive Directors have conducted site visits will ensure that no matter where our customers are based around the toeight global locations around our businesses, including my visits to Italy, world, design engineers, academics, purchasing professionals or China, Singapore and our Distribution Centres in the US and Belgium.
customers conducting maintenance and repair on existing electronics will Whilst undertaking these visits, I have continued to be impressed by the have even more reasons to choose Premier Farnell.
The Board believes culture of innovation that exists across the Group as employees work that through the implementation of its strategic vision the Group is well together to achieve our goal of being a high-performing, customer placed to leverage its expertise and infrastructure to make further progress focusedorganisation.
in all markets in the years ahead.
This year, the Board appointed an independent party to evaluate the Boards effectiveness as a high performing Board, in line with the Measuring our performance requirements of the Corporate Governance Code.
The insights gained, which are already enriching the Board, are detailed in the Corporate As part of the development of our strategy, we have rened the Key Governance report on page 44.
Performance Indicators KPIs by which we believe the business should bemeasured through the economic cycles.
These metrics underpin our focus on optimising our businesss performance to drive growth, efficiency, Diversity profitability and cash ow the areas that we believe matter most to all As a leader in business diversity with two European awards this past ourstakeholders.
year, we continue to recognise the benets of diversity in the workforce The Board believes that the success of Premier Farnells strategy should and, while we will continue to make all appointments based on the bemeasured on a long term view, while managed in relation to market bestcandidate for the role, our goal is for women to make up 30% of conditions to optimise performance.
Following consultation with management grade employees.
With women representing 27% of the stakeholders, the Company will move from quarterly to half year reporting, combined GET and Board population, Premier Farnell is well on its way in line with the spirit of the Kay Review and reecting wider UK market toachieving this goal.
As a global business, we recognise that it is not practice.
We continue to encourage an open and transparent dialogue justgender diversity that supports the strength and future success of the withall our stakeholders.
business and we remain focused on achieving the right level of diversity whether related to ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, creed or culture.
In his review, starting on page 10, Laurence Bain, Chief Executive officer CEO explains the changes in more detail while our performance against Employees our Key Performance Indicators KPIs is outlined on pages 14 and 15 of this report.
This year we have refreshed the core values that underpin our strategy andguide our behaviour and we have embedded them throughout the Governance and the Board organisation.
The details of our core values are provided on page 1 of thisReport.
Throughout this challenging year, our 4,400 employees have During the course of the year, the Board was pleased to appoint Laurence shown a remarkable focus in driving towards their targets and goals and Bain and Mark Whiteling as CEO and Chief Financial officer CFO, Iwould like to thank them for their efforts.
Their commitment to putting respectively.
Laurence and Mark bring a wealth of experience of the ourcore values into action can be seen throughout the business, uniting electronics industry to their roles and their knowledge of Premier Farnell our teams around the globe and shaping every aspect of how we work and its stakeholders has enabled an exceptionally smooth transition period.
together for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Having joined the Group in 2002 as Chief Operating officer COO, Laurence has been a Board member since 2003 while Mark was Premier Outlook Farnells CFO from 2006 to 2011.
During this time, Laurence and Mark held Although the macro-economic outlook continues to be uncertain in the key roles in developing the Companys strategy and worked closely in its near term, we remain positive on the Groups ability to implement our implementation.
Together, they are well placed to continue Premier Farnells strategic vision and optimise the businesss performance to grow our active strategic evolution to optimise profitable growth.
customer base and market share and drive our financial performance in the Mark and Laurence are supported by a strong Global Executive Team year ahead.
Under the guidance of the Board, strong executive leadership GET which meets regularly and enhances the businesss collaborative and with an enhanced strategic focus, I believe Premier Farnell is well approach.
Members of the GET are mentored by Non-Executive Board positioned to capitalise on its extensive opportunities throughout the members, demonstrating the Groups open and inclusive approach.
coming economic cycles to the benefit of our shareholders, employees, Further information on the GET is provided on page 37. customers and suppliers.
The Board is grateful to Harriet Green and Nicholas Cadbury, previously CEO and CFO respectively, for the contributions they made to Premier Farnell.
