02 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chairmans Statement The Group has delivered on its expectations and returned to profitable growth.
Growth came from allregions of Europe, Asia and Africa and in particular from the key markets of UK, Indonesia and Nigeria.
This has been achieved despite challenging external factors such as the difficult trading environment in Europe, high wage inflation in Indonesia and the continuing unrest in the north of Nigeria.
The Groups entrepreneurial ability to bring The joint venture with Wilmar in Nigeria new products to market quickly gives us a hasconsiderable potential and a new competitive advantage and the ability to consumer brand has its launch planned for maintain or increase our leading market the first quarter following the successful shares in our chosen geographies commissioning of the palm oil refinery andmarkets.
At the same time, we have maintained We ended the year with a net cash position, ourfocus on cost reduction, both through as a result of the strong cash generation the supply chain optimisation project which during the period.
is almost complete, and other margin improvement projects throughout the This year, the Group is able to mark its 40th Group resulting in overall operating anniversary of consecutive yearonyear marginsnow exceeding 12%.
increases in dividend, demonstrating the sustainable nature of the Groups cash Further margin improvement is planned generation.
through the continued separation of the Groups supply chain from its commercial Post year end, the acquisition of Australian operations so that both structures are baby food brand Raffertys Garden marks optimised for future growth.
Investment in the Groups entry into the Food and new IT systems is also planned over the next Nutrition category in Asia Pacific, and few years to maintain our ability to react addsanother leading brand with exciting quickly to market opportunities.
Despite the challenging trading conditions in most markets, the Group expects to deliver continued increases in profitability and cash flow driven by brand innovation and renovation, as well as further margin improvement projects.
Overall performance since the yearend has been in line withexpectations.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the Groups staff for their continued hard work and dedication which is highly appreciated both by me and by the Board ofDirectors.
Their commitment to our coreCAN DO values will be essential in continuing our progress in the future.
Richard Harvey Nonexecutive Chairman 23 July 2013 03 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Cussons Mum&Me The new Cussons Mum & Me range was launched in June 2012.
The novel range was developed by PZ Cussons to guide mums through the journey from bump to baby.
Sales rates have been building on a monthly basis as new customers arerecruited to the brand.
An extension to the brand called Cussons Mum & Me, Little Explorers, is now being launchedwith a range of products foryoung children.
