Chairmans statement I joined the Randgold board in 1998, at a time when the gold price was hovering around historically low levels, the mining industry was in disarray, gold stocks were badly out of favour, and Randgold, recently listed on the London Stock Exchange, was embarking on a feasibility study for the Morila project in Mali.
Its subsequent decision to fund and develop the Morila mine, based on a deposit discovered by its own exploration team, was a courageous one: some even thought it foolhardy under the circumstances.
But Mark Bristow and his team believed in their strategy of creating value through discovery and development, and had confidence in their ability to achieve this goal.
The mighty Morila, commissioned in 2000 and still in production, has paid billions of dollars to its stakeholders, and became the foundation on which Randgold transformed a junior exploration business into a widely respected industry leader.
Looking back over the years, it is amazing to see how much has changed.
Randgold has built and is running five world-class gold mines in three African countries, all but one developed on deposits discovered by its own geologists.
And it has a long pipeline of future growth prospects: its gold production in 2014 is forecast to pass the million ounce mark.
It is a member of the London Stock Exchanges elite FTSE 100 index and it has become the go-to partner for mineralrich African countries and the go-to stock for shrewd investors, with a share price that routinely outperforms those of its peers.
Some things, however, have not changed.
Randgolds founding strategy remains intact, as does its record of delivery and its entrepreneurial energy.
And sadly, the gold mining industry is back where it was at the beginning of the millennium: floundering in the wake of a price downturn, having signally failed to take advantage of a 10 year bull run in gold, and resorting to the same defences that did not work last time around indiscriminate cost-cutting, exploration pull-backs, project cancellations, and seeking safety in the arms of mergers and acquisitions.
In an industry in crisis, Randgold stood apart in 2013 by again producing profitable growth and continuing to secure its sustainability for the years to come, even at lower gold prices.
Its gold production increased significantly and it started reversing the long rise in the cost trend.
As it was already calculating its reserves at US$1 000 oz, there was no need to revise this basic assumption downwards, but at the first sign of a correction in the gold price, Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 3 Share price performance and gold price Share price Gold price US$ oz 120 1 800 100 1 600 80 1 400 60 1 200 40 1 000 20 0 800 Source: Bloomberg management prudently reviewed all operational plans to ensure the sustainability initiatives detailed elsewhere in this report.
that capital allocation and returns were optimally aligned, and As part of that programme, Randgold last year established Nos Vies en Partage, a charitable foundation dedicated to community intensified the focus on cost control.
While the 17% decline in the average gold price received over the year inevitably upliftment, and I have accepted an invitation to serve as its first chairman.
impacted on profits, the board felt confident enough in the companys prospects to recommend an unchanged dividend It has been particularly satisfying to see how successful of 50 US cents per share to shareholders.
It is worth noting Randgolds policy of employing and developing the citizens of its that despite investment in capital projects and joint ventures host countries has been.
Not only the workers and supervisors of some US$730 million in the development of Kibali and but also the senior managers at its mines are now largely local various growth and efficiency enhancements across the group, nationals.
Randgold ended the year with cash in the bank and no debt.
In my time as chairman I had the pleasure of working with The results for 2013 are dealt with in detail in the chief an exceptionally astute group of colleagues, international executives report, but I would like to single out Kibali for special businessmen and women, and academics, whose wisdom and mention because to me its successful commissioning in one wide-ranging experience combined with their own commitment of Africas remotest regions, ahead of schedule and within to extending the application of the Randgold DNA contributed budget, epitomises the qualities that make Randgold a great so much value to the company at the strategic level.
I thank company: long term vision and commitment: the ability to forge them for their counsel and support.
I would also like to record productive partnerships with host countries, communities and a special word of appreciation to Mark Bristow.
He and I share service providers: a high level of competence across the full a passion for this business and the same ambitions for its range of technical, financial and relationship disciplines: and a future.
Our productive working relationship has been based on drive to deliver that is not daunted by even the most formidable complementary skills and mutual respect.
Randgolds succession planning policy has ensured that there After 10 years as chairman of Randgold, I shall be stepping is a supremely well-equipped board member to take over the down from the board at the companys next annual general chairmanship.
Christopher Coleman, who is head of banking meeting in May.
My association with the company dates back and asset finance at Rothschild in London, has a long association to my days with the International Finance Corporation, which with the company, first as a banker and then as an independent had invested in Malis Syama gold mine, when I was involved non-executive director.
I wish him every success in his new in Randgolds acquisition of BHPs Mali assets, a prerequisite position.
I also welcome to the board Jemal-ud-din Kassum, for its subsequent listing.
Even then, I was impressed by the an Oxford and Harvard educated Tanzanian national based in fledgling businesss sense of purpose.
As a director and later as the USA.
He is a former regional vice-president of the World chairman, I was privileged to play a part first in fending off early Bank and before that had a 25 year career with the International existential threats the need to repay substantial debt, the Finance Corporation.
decision to close down and later sell the Syama mine, investor indifference, a faltering share price and then gradually taking In conclusion, I would simply like to say that I look back on bigger and bigger steps on the journey to its goals.
my time at Randgold as a wonderful adventure which I was fortunate enough to share with an amazingly talented and The composition of the board has evolved over these years, dedicated group of people, from the board and the CEO down.
but its essential role has remained that of contributing a I shall watch with pride as the adventure continues on an ever diverse range of skills and perspectives to the direction of larger scale.
the business, in sync with management yet maintaining an independent frame of mind.
A key part of that mission is to support and promote the Randgold culture with its insistent focus on strategy, exhaustive analysis of risks, commitment to partnerships and a constant pursuit of excellence in all aspects of the business.
As the custodians of the companys corporate Philippe Litard governance, the board has also been instrumental in helping Chairman to secure Randgolds social licence to operate in Africa through 4 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 Jul 13 Aug 13 Sep 13 Oct 13 Nov 13 Dec 13 Jan 14 Feb 14 Share price US$ NASDAQ: GOLD Share price LSE: RRS Gold price
