Strategic Report Chairmans Statement New Purpose-inspired Strategy Delivers Strong Performance will update Shareholders on the reviews In December, we appointed progress during 2014.
Nicandro Durante as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Nicandro, an Cash and Dividend Italian Brazilian and CEO of BAT, brings The strong growth produced strong significant consumer goods industry and cash flow, allowing the Company to pay emerging markets experience.
Also in down more of its debt.
The Company is December Richard Cousins advised me in strong financial health and your Board that he would not be available to stand is proposing a final dividend of 77p per for re-election to the Board.
This brings the dividend for the Richard for his contributions to our year to 137p per share, an increase of Company.
Judith Sprieser and Kenneth 2% over 2012.
Hydon will step down as Chairs of the Corporate Social Responsibility Remuneration and Audit Committees On behalf of the Board I have In addition to being a financial respectively in 2014.
They have both pleasure in reporting that your contributor to society, the Company been extraordinarily effective Chairs of Company delivered strong is also a contributor to environmental the Committees.
results ahead of targets for and humanitarian needs of society.
Net revenue excluding The Company was proud to announce actively involved in a project to appoint RB Pharmaceuticals grew 7%, a major new global initiative with Save 1 additional Non-Executive Directors.
operating profit adjusted excluding the Children, a longstanding partner, to RB Pharmaceuticals grew 7%, and address the scourge of child deaths from Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1 adjusted net income grew at 2%, diarrhoea, which is highly preventable The resolutions to be voted on at our all at constant exchange rates.
through better health and hygiene.
AGM on 7 May 2014, are explained in the Notice of Meeting, including the The Companys twin strategy is to Corporate Governance new requirement to offer Shareholders focus on growing the health and The detailed Corporate Governance a binding vote on our Remuneration hygiene brands of its core portfolio and Statement and Report on pages 24 Policy, the details of which are set out in to achieve a stronger emerging market to 32 reflects the Boards recognition the Directors Remuneration Report on penetration to better balance its historic of the importance of our governance pages 34 to 46.
We believe this policy developed market strength.
has served the Company well and hope At the end of 2013, health and hygiene The Board conducted regular reviews Shareholders will endorse it.
brands represented 72% of the core of the performance of the business, Thanks portfolio and the emerging market its strategy, brands, human resources, On behalf of the Board, I thank our areas represented 43%.
This progress corporate responsibility and reputation CEO, Rakesh Kapoor, his executive is pleasing but equally so were the and business risks.
It was decided management team and our employees results in Europe and North America to change the trading name of the globally for their commitment to which achieved growth in every Company to RB, moving away from delivering strong performance.
The Board quarter of the year.
Our acquisitions, the harder to say, spell and search is often reminded that an enduring more fully reported elsewhere in Reckitt Benckiser.
There are no differentiator of the Company is its this report, contributed materially to changes to legal entity names.
people and their positive performancethese achievements.
Board of Directors minded culture.
My thanks go also to RB Pharmaceuticals It was with great regret that I accepted my Board colleagues for their continued After the entry of generic US in June the resignation due to ill health support and guidance.
competition to RB Pharmaceuticals of Graham Mackay, our then Senior The Board thanks you, our Shareholders, Suboxone and the stable performance Independent Director.
Graham sadly for your on-going confidence in the of the Film alternative, your Board passed away in December.
announced a strategic review of this great service to your Company over part of the Company.
The review will his eight years on the Board and will Adrian Bellamy Chairman recommend the optimal future for be missed.
Andr Lacroix has been RB Pharmaceuticals and the Company appointed Senior Independent Director.
1 Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items RB Annual Report 2013 1
