Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 3 Chairmans statement Dividends The Boards are recommending equalised final dividends of 17.95p for Reed Elsevier PLC and 0.374 for Reed Elsevier NV, up respectively 6% and 11% against the prior year.
This brings the total dividends for the year to 24.60p for Reed Elsevier PLC, up 7% and 0.506 for Reed Elsevier NV, up 8%.
The differing growth rates of the interim and final dividends for the two parent companies reflect movements in the sterling-euro exchange rate between dividend announcement dates.
Balance sheet Net debt was 3.1bn 3.7bn on 31 December 2013, compared with 3.1bn 3.8bn last year.
Net debt EBITDA on a pensions and lease adjusted basis for 2013 was 2.1x, down from 2.2x last year, and on an unadjusted basis, it was 1.6x, down from 1.7x last year.
Adjusted operating cash flow conversion was 97%, up from 95% in 2012, with capital expenditure at 5% of revenues.
Anthony Habgood Share buybacks Chairman Strong cash flow, together with proceeds from the disposal of businesses, enabled us to step up our share buyback programme while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
In 2013 we deployed Reed Elsevier continued to deliver a total of 600m on share buybacks, and by the end of February 2014 we had deployed an additional 100m.
In 2014, although we on its long-term strategic and expect disposal proceeds to be lower, we intend to deploy a total of 600m on share buybacks, based on our strong balance sheet and financial priorities in 2013. cash flow.
Continued underlying revenue The Boards In September, Duncan Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, offered his andprofit growth was achieved resignation from the Boards of Reed Elsevier.
This was a result of family circumstances which unexpectedly required him to return to across all five major business the US.
Duncan has made an important contribution to the business and we wish him the best for the future.
In January 2014, units, with improved profitability we announced Nick Luff would take over from Duncan.
Nick has been Chief Financial Officer at Centrica plc, the UK energy group, driven by process innovation and since 2007, and prior to that was at P&O, the FTSE 100 logistics and shipping group.
Nicks many years of experience as Chief Financial portfolio development.
Our strong Officer at a FTSE 30 company and involvement in dual UK US and Netherlands-based listings, make him an excellent fit for Reed cash flow enabled us to step up Elsevier.
He will join the company in 2014. our share buyback programme Following the introduction of new legislation in the Netherlands and the approval of changes to the articles of association of Reed while maintaining balance Elsevier NV by its shareholders, the Directors adopted a unitary board structure in May 2013.
This further aligns the structure of the sheetstrength.
During the year, we also continued the process of progressively Growth of underlying revenues, which exclude the effects of currency refreshing the non-executive element of the Boards.
At the Annual translation, acquisitions and disposals, was 2%, or 3% excluding General Meetings in April, a number of changes were made.
Sir the cycling effect of biennial exhibitions, with all five business David Reid and Mark Elliott retired as Non-Executive Directors areas contributing to underlying growth.
Our reported revenues after 10 years service.
Lisa Hook, who joined the Boards in April declined by 1% to 6,035m expressed in sterling and 5% to 7,121m 2006, became the Senior Independent Director.
As previously expressed in euros, or down 3% at constant exchange rates, announced, Wolfhart Hauser joined the Boards in April.
I would like reflecting disposals made across the businesses.
to thank David and Mark for their many years of advice and wisdom, Underlying adjusted operating profits grew 5%, with the and welcome Wolfhart to Reed Elsevier.
improvement in profitability reflecting a combination of process Corporate responsibility innovation and portfolio development across all business areas.
Our focus on corporate responsibility remains a source of strength Adjusted operating profits grew 4% to 1,749m expressed in for Reed Elsevier.
I fully support all our efforts to ensure the sterling, down 1% to 2,064m expressed in euros.
highest levels of ethical management.
We are making consistent Adjusted earnings per share grew 9% to 54.0p for Reed Elsevier progress against our corporate responsibility objectives, and with PLC, and 5% to 0.99 for Reed Elsevier NV.
Reported earnings per our commitment to increase the diversity of our Boards.
share grew 9% to 48.8p for Reed Elsevier PLC, and 5% to 0.91 for Anthony Habgood Reed Elsevier NV.
