Chairmans statement The Group had an active and successful year.
We have again demonstrated our ability to deliver a strong financial performance while expanding our global network and deepening our local in-country networks.
For the period, Group revenues grew when, where or how they work.
We believe No reportable matters were identi ed and 23.3% to 1,533.5m 2012: 1,244.1m, that now is the right time to expand and we continue to have full con dence in the while operating pro ts were marginally lay the foundations for a much larger and Boards members and processes.
ahead at 90.8m 2012: 90.2m, a more pro table business.
strong result in light of the increased Our people Our growth strategy is based upon drag from the accelerated pace of new Each of the Non-Executive Directors was increasing the pro t generation and cash centre additions.
able to attend a portion of the Groups ows from our mature centres which annual planning conference in November We continue to position the business for enables us to invest in our network and in which more than 150 senior managers the future, with over 300m invested in thereby generate attractive returns and from around the world actively participated.
growing our high quality network.
In total increased earnings per share over the It was clear from observation of the we increased our business centre network long term.
participants plans that managements by 30% to 1,831 2012: 1,411 and While pursuing our strategy, we also strive focus on the people in these key roles opened 76 third place locations.
to be good corporate citizens.
We are is paying off in terms of our ability to The performance of our Mature business committed to sustainable business innovate and deliver results as we execute continues to be a strength.
On a likepractices and dedicated to promoting and our strategy.
for-like basis, revenues in our Mature enabling the shift to exible working in the I would like to thank each and every one business improved by 3.7% to 1,226.3m economy.
By doing so, we strengthen our of our team members for their unrelenting 2012: 1,182.0m, while operating business and help our customers improve passion and commitment.
Building Regus pro t increased by 33% to 205.3m their productivity while reducing both is a challenging and rewarding endeavour 2012: 154.6m with the mature operating costs and carbon emissions through which is only achieved through their hard margin improving to 16.7% 2012: 13.1%.
more effective use of space and reducing work and dedication.
Our mature centres continue to be highly the need for travel.
We are also committed cash generative, with free cash ow after to reducing our own impact on the Dividend tax, finance costs and maintenance capital environment, implementing systems and Given the continued strong performance of expenditure of 156.5m, representing a processes to ensure we use resources in the business the Board is recommending mature free cash ow margin of 12.8% or a suitable and responsible way.
We also a final dividend of 2.5p.
Subject to the 16.6p per share.
actively back our team members initiatives approval of shareholders at the 2013 to support the local communities in which Our New Centres business has also AGM this will be paid on 30 May 2014 to we operate.
performed well, progressing in line with shareholders on the register at the close of our expectations.
Management remain business on 2 May 2014.
This represents Board update focused on ensuring all new centres an increase in the full year dividend of 13% During the year Florence Pierre joined achieve the required financial returns.
the Board as a Non-Executive Director, complementing its existing skills and Strategy Douglas Sutherland diversity.
Following an external evaluation Over the last 25 years Regus has evolved Chairman in 2012, an internal Board review was to meet the changing work needs of conducted in 2013.
The results of this 4 March 2014 business, providing our customers with evaluation were used to improve the superior space and support regardless of processes and effectiveness of the Board.
14 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DOUGLAS SUTHERLAND, CHAIRMAN CHAIRMANS STATEMENT
