Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Chairmans Statement 33 Chairmans Statement current financial remit to join the Board and chair the Audit committee.
John McAdam I am pleased that Peter Long, our senior independent director, who Chairman joined the Board in 2002, has agreed, subject to re-election at the AGM, to remain as a director until the end of 2014 to provide further continuity during the first year of Andy Ransoms executive leadership.
It is my responsibility to ensure that Board members have a diverse range of backgrounds and skills and that they all contribute to our decision-making.
Each Board member brings his or her viewpoint toBoard discussions and collectively, as well as individually, Iam confident the Board demonstrates the highest standards of governance and integrity which is essential to ensuring that these standards are reflected across the group.
Director rotation and equipping the Board with the optimum skills for the future is an important topic for the Board in 2014.
I am Dear fellow shareholder also mindful of our intention to seek to make a second female appointment to the Board.
The governance process provides the framework for the successful delivery of strategy, commercial success and the creation of The Board evaluation for 2013 reconfirmed the positive outcome of shareholder value.
It also provides the channel through which high the previous year and confirms that the Board functions effectively.
standards of good governance are cascaded through the Company Some suggestions for improvements were identified in Board ensuring that throughout the business, decisions are taken on a timely processes and these are described in this report.
basis by the right people who have the correct information to hand.
Challenge In an eventful year for the Company, we sold the City Link business, A major responsibility of the Board is to constructively challenge the we conducted a chief executive succession process leading to the executive team over its execution of strategy and hold it to account appointment of Andy Ransom as Chief Executive on 1 October 2013 over actions taken.
During the year the Board has held meetings with and we instigated a thorough review of the effectiveness of our longthe team leading the growth of the North American business that term incentive plan.
Throughout the year, we continued apace with the acquired the Western Exterminator Company in California at the end strategic actions started in 2008 to return the group to financial health.
of 2012, with the leaders of the UK pest and hygiene business and In the Strategic Report you will have seen that we have revised the East region, as well as with members of the leadership team of the existing corporate strategy to deliver a tangible improvement in the Initial Facilities business.
These engagements not only help directors return to shareholders.
to develop a better understanding of the issues faced in implementing strategy but also provide reference points for the assessment of the Sale of City Link management cadre in the organisation.
The performance of City Link has for a number of years consumed a significant amount of Board attention, as did the process at the Reporting and engagement beginning of the year of agreeing the most appropriate transaction I hope that you have found the Strategic Report to shareholders to take the business out of the group, whilst at the same time giving on pages 2 to 28 a helpful explanation of our strategy and of how shareholders the best protection from residual liabilities.
the strategy is executed through our business model.
This year we also provide additional reporting from the Audit committee Chief Executive following changes in the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2012 Alan Brown stood down as chief executive at the beginning of October and additional remuneration reporting under the new regulations.
2013 after five and a half years, during which time his strategic plan Our remuneration policy, set out on pages 55 to 62, will be put to for the group has delivered substantial structural and operational shareholders for a binding vote at the AGM on 14 May 2014. improvements which have laid the foundations for the delivery of I hope that the remainder of this report gives you a clear understanding improved financial performance and shareholder value.
The Board of the governance process as well as how the Board complies with is very grateful for the contribution he has made over that period.
its obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 and Selecting a new chief executive was a pivotal decision for the Board in 2012, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
2013 and I am confident that in appointing Andy Ransom to succeed If you are able to attend the AGM, I look forward to seeing you in May.
Alan Brown as chief executive we have in him the right skills, experience In the meantime we are keen to engage with shareholders and other and most of all motivation to develop the foundations laid over the stakeholders and would welcome your feedback on this annual report.
last five years and to deliver value to shareholders.
The succession Please e-mail investors@rentokil-initial.
com and let us know what planning process for the chief executive role described in this report youthink.
was thorough both in terms of internal and external candidates.
Yours faithfully Board composition The focus in 2013 was on executive succession.
We were sorry to lose the contribution from William Rucker who stepped down from the Board in March.
In 2014, Duncan Tatton-Brown will have served on the Board for nine years, much of that time as Audit committee John McAdam Chairman, and will be standing down at the AGM in May.
The Board Chairman has initiated a search for an additional non-executive director with a 28 February 2014 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
