04 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Chairmans statement We have made a strong start to the current year, with sales growth of 10% like-for-like sales up 3.5% for the first eight weeks of the year.
The Group delivered another strong performance in 2013 with significant growth in revenues, profits and cash flow.
This is particularly impressive as it follows on from a decade of consistent growth and demonstrates the very formidable strength of the Groups business.
Like-for-like sales were 3.5% ahead of the previous year which represents an outperformance against our sector.
I am very encouraged that this trend has continued into 2014 with like-for-like sales for the eight weeks to 23 February 2014 3.5% ahead of the previous year first eight weeks of 2013: 6.5%.
The continuing squeeze on household finances has been widely reported and this has meant that conditions for consumer-facing businesses were again tough in 2013.
By focusing on our customers and giving a wide range 35 of choice we have ensured that the Group has continued to make profitable progress, once again, delivering record new restaurants profits and earnings.
opened We increased our openings programme during 2013 with 35 new restaurants opened.
Of these, 19 restaurants opened in the final two months of the year and it is testament to the strength of the TRG team that all were successfully opened whilst, at the same time, our existing restaurants enjoyed a flourishing level of trade.
We are delighted with the performance of our new openings and they are set to deliver 3.5% good returns.
Looking forward, we have a superb pipeline of new sites covering the period 2014 to 2016. increase in like-forlike sales In 2013, the Groups revenues grew by 9% to 580m 2012: 533m, profit before tax grew by 13% to 72.7m 2012: 64.6m and earnings per share grew by 16% to 28.0p 2012: 24.1p.
This increase in earnings per share represents a compound annual growth rate of 11% over the five years to December 2013.
This represents strong growth, delivered consistently over a long period of time and is reflective of our first class business and the efforts of our management team.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 05 We are well placed to continue our further 19% profitable progress.
dividend growth 13% increase in profit before tax As a result of this strong performance, the Board is We have made a strong start to the current year, with sales recommending a final dividend of 8.75p per share to give growth of 10% like-for-like sales up 3.5% for the first eight a total for the year of 14.0p 2012: 11.8p an increase of 19%.
weeks of the year and we are looking to build further on This dividend is covered two times by earnings per share, this as we move through the year.
We have an outstanding in line with our dividend policy.
Subject to shareholder business with market-leading brands in excellent locations, approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on and an experienced management team with real strength 15 May 2014, the final dividend will be paid on 9 July 2014 and depth.
All of our brands are well recognised, providing and the shares will be marked ex-dividend on 18 June 2014. our customers with a wide range of choice and superb value for money.
I am confident that we are well placed to continue TRG has consistently demonstrated the strength and our further profitable progress.
resilience of its business model and this is, again, another set of record results.
The Group is managed by a stable, Alan Jackson experienced and long standing team, in a disciplined and Chairman focused manner growing organically and also through 26 February 2014 judicious and carefully executed roll out.
By operating in this manner, TRG is able to grow its estate, increase earnings and dividends and generate high levels of cash and returns on investments.
These outstanding results are a product of the hard work, expertise and dedication of our Directors, senior management and staff.
On behalf of the Board I would like to record our thanks to all of our teams across the country.
As recently announced, Andrew Page, our Chief Executive Officer, will be retiring at the end of August after thirteen years with the Group.
Under Andrews leadership, The Restaurant Group has developed into a first class and firmly established FTSE-250 business, with an excellent track record of growth in earnings, dividends and shareholder value.
The Board and I, personally, would like to express our heartfelt thanks and congratulations to Andrew on the immense success he has achieved at TRG during his tenure.
I am delighted that Andrew has agreed to continue as an Advisor to the Chairman and Board on an annually renewable basis for two days a week.
The search for a new Chief Executive Officer is well underway.
