02 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Chairmans statement RIGHT BLEND OF Four years ago, we set SKILLS AND ATTRIBUTES out a plan to strengthen One of my key responsibilities as chairman is to promote good governance which is critical the foundations of this in ensuring that we remain a successful and company and create sustainable company.
Integrity and trust are more important than ever in todays business a solid platform for world and during the year we believe we have the future.
maintained the high standards expected of us.
We highlighted three areas that were fundamental The board has continued to focus on ensuring that to achieving our aims: managing costs, optimising the UK Corporate Governance Codes principles cash and improving our return on capital employed on leadership and board effectiveness are applied.
For the latter, we set ourselves a target Stuart Chambers In 2013, we conducted an external evaluation of of achieving a 15% ROCE by the end of 2013, Chairman the board and its committees and all directors and I am delighted to say that we have hit this received a formal annual performance evaluation.
During the period since 2010, we have The experience was positive and our external also generated almost 940m in free cash flow reviewer reported that all directors had made and made restructuring and efficiency savings reference to the boards open and transparent of c 195m.
These notable achievements were culture.
Such a culture encourages a high quality Dividend due in no small measure to the application and debate and sophisticated levels of enquiry as well The board is proposing a final initiative of our executive leadership team as as an environment which is both challenging dividend of 11.7p per share, making well as the resilience and commitment of our and constructive.
Further details of the board a total dividend of 17.4p for the year.
people in what has been a challenging economic evaluation can be found on page 51.
This 14% increase is in line with our period.
The proposed sale of the majority of the dividend policy to have a dividend Our board members bring important skills Healthcare business see page 42 was further and experience to our organisation and this cover in the range 2.0 to 2.5 times testament to the strength of the organisation.
underlying earnings, and reflects the complements the skills of our executive team.
On page 8 Graham Chipchase, the chief Key to board success is ensuring that it has the boards continuing confidence in the executive, sets out our plans for the Company Group.
Subject to shareholder right mix of non executive directors with a variety as we seek to balance growth and returns.
The of experience and expertise to constructively approval at the annual general board and I will continue to work closely with meeting on 2 May 2014, the final challenge and support the executive team.
The him in delivering on those plans.
board was enhanced in June 2013 by the addition dividend will be paid on 3 June 2014 to shareholders on the register at of Ros Rivaz.
Her considerable technology The skills and determination of our people and the experience and expertise in driving efficiencies close of business on 9 May 2014. quality of our assets give us a great advantage, in manufacturing processes and procurement in and we are committed to being the best beverage global organisations are of real value to Rexam.
Over the year I once Final dividend again met many of our employees around the In May 2014, Jean-Pierre Rodier will step down world and am reassured that the depth of their from the board after eight years of dedicated 11.7p per share knowledge and their professionalism will help service.
His industry experience has been valuable us to be the best.
in the progress we have made and I would like to thank him for his wise counsel and commitment.
to be paid on 3 June 2014 The safety, health and wellbeing of all our We expect to be in a position to announce a employees is vital and an area the board follows new non executive director at the AGM 2014, closely.
We remain one of the leaders in our by which time we will also have appointed a industry in safety but it was disappointing that new chairman of the remuneration committee.
Total dividend we made little progress in 2013 on reducing accidents and incidents at our workplaces.
We My ambitions for the composition of the board are have a concrete plan of action to re-establish to broaden the range of expertise, experience 17.4p per share momentum in this key area which, as a board, and diversity to maintain the gender balance of we will follow closely.
at least 25% of board members being women.
14% vs 2012 Before I move to other matters, I would like to NEW TO THE REPORT pay tribute to Rexams former chief executive, Our annual report covers all aspects of our Lars Emilson, who passed away in June 2013. financial and non financial performance and aims Lars had a long and successful career in our to provide a fair, balanced and understandable can business culminating in his tenure as chief assessment of the Companys position and executive from 2004 to 2007.
He was a person of prospects.
In addition to a section on how we great integrity and a much respected and valued identify, monitor and mitigate risks, we include member of an industry to which he dedicated his a section on our business model, which explains working life.
He will be remembered as one of how we create value.
We demonstrate how the architects of Rexam and the modern global key enablers of our strategy manufacturing drinks can industry.
excellence: customer relationships: innovation: sustainability and our people are supporting the development of the Company.
We also provide you with an overview of factors driving our business and an understanding of how we are responding to them.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 03 1 2 The skills and determination of our people and the quality of our assets give us a great advantage, and we are committed to being the best beverage can maker in the world.
1 2 Employees at our Cairo In 2013 we produced plant which the board our first beverage cans at visited in June 2013 the new plant in Belm in were undeterred by the northern Brazil.
The plant civil unrest that affected has an installed capacity the country.
Staying in of 0.8bn cans per year.
hotels close to the plant and taking other beyond the call of duty measures, they kept the plant up and running safely to ensure can supplies to our customers.
We have consistently stated that if we cannot OUTLOOK ALIGNING INTERESTS We plan for long term success at Rexam and the invest in projects with good returns then we are Following the sale of our Healthcare business, principles of our management incentive schemes committed to returning excess cash to shareholders.
we will be a focused global beverage can detailed on page 62 reflect this.
While the In January 2013, following the sale of our Personal maker.
We have a strong balance sheet, a clear variable elements of executive remuneration are Care business, we completed a return of cash of focus on the fundamentals of the business and centred on the transparent measures of profit and 45p per existing ordinary share.
See page 81 skilled and committed people.
I am confident cash generation as well as personal performance and note 28 to the financial statements.
The return that, even in a tough economic environment, we objectives, the bias is towards long term, share of cash was accompanied by a consolidation of are in good shape to continue to make progress based plans to prioritise longer term investment the existing ordinary shares in the ratio of nine in delivering value to our shareholders and decisions and align managements interests with new ordinary shares for every ten existing other stakeholders.
We have strengthened ordinary shares held.
this alignment over the years by introducing Taking into account ordinary dividends and shareholding requirements for the executive the return of cash in 2013, total cash returns leadership team.
to shareholders have been c 0.9bn over the last four years.
See page 76 for development of REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES total shareholder returns.
In 2014, we plan to The remit of the remuneration committee, Stuart Chambers return a further 450m following the sale of the chaired by Jean-Pierre Rodier, is to ensure that Chairman major part of our Healthcare business, which we remuneration remains aligned with our strategy.
expect to complete in the second quarter of 2014.
In particular, we continue to focus on long term value creation and this requires that SUPPORTING OUR we reconsider regularly the detailed structure CUSTOMERS AMBITIONS of remuneration and directors pay.
During the Packaging is an integral part of modern day year the remuneration committee conducted an living.
It enables externally facilitated review of our remuneration efficient distribution and reduces waste from principles and policies and we are satisfied that, in spoilage.
Many aspects of the lifestyle that volatile economic conditions, the current structure many of us take for granted is predicated, provides appropriate incentives for our senior in part, on the availability of a sustainable management to balance growth with returns packaging supply chain.
Packaging has always and achieve best value for shareholders.
been under scrutiny and many of our customers are committing to ambitious targets in the RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS sustainability of their packaging.
As one of their We have demonstrated a disciplined approach to core suppliers, we are supporting them in these capital allocation and will continue to manage endeavours.
It is important that they know they our business in the best interests of shareholders.
have a partner who can drive change and who Returns to shareholders are an established priority will collaborate with them on their journey as for Rexam and the dividend is a core element of they seek sustainable transformation within total shareholder returns.
This year we raised our their supply chains.
This increase reflects the boards confidence in the Groups future and is in line with our dividend policy to have a cover in the range 2.0 to 2.5 times underlying earnings.
