STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group overview continued Chairmans letter Products Maintaining good governance Diamonds & Minerals product group Dear shareholders, Coal Good governance is essential for the long-term success of the Group.
In 2013, The Diamonds & Minerals product group comprises a suite of industry-leading, In 2013 your company was focused on improving the performance of the Coal is abundant, relatively inexpensive, and safe and easy to transport.
We are we have seen a greater level of focus, discipline and accountability throughout demand-led businesses, which include mining, refining and marketing business, strengthening capital allocation processes and reducing our level of a large supplier to the seaborne thermal coal market.
Thermal coal is used for the organisation.
This continues to be underpinned by your boards oversight operations across four sectors.
Rio Tinto Diamonds is one of the worlds leading indebtedness all with a view to ensuring a greater commitment to creating electricity generation in power stations.
We also produce higher-value coking or of a robust corporate governance framework to support our business and diamond producers, active in mining, manufacturing, selling, and marketing real value for shareholders.
metallurgical coal which, when mixed in furnaces with iron ore, produces steel.
Rio Tinto Minerals is a world leader in borates, with mines, I am pleased to report that substantial progress had been made on meeting processing plants, and commercial and research facilities.
Dampier Salt is one Uranium My role as chairman is to lead the board and to ensure it is focused on its these priorities.
We achieved underlying earnings of US$10.2 billion and of the worlds largest producers of seaborne salt.
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium is Uranium is one of the most powerful known natural energy sources, and is oversight of management and the delivery of our strategy.
Sam Walshs role significantly improved cash flow by 22 per cent over 2012.
We exceeded an industry leader in high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks.
The Diamonds & used in the production of clean, stable, base-load electricity.
After uranium as chief executive is to focus on sustained operational excellence and growth our cost reduction targets and set production records.
Our net earnings Minerals group also includes the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea, one of ore is mined, it is milled into uranium oxide the mine product that is sold of the business and to do so with safety top of mind.
Our roles are performance of US$3.7 billion takes account of non-cash exchange rate losses the largest known undeveloped high-grade iron ore resources in the world.
for processing into fuel rods for use in nuclear power stations.
The separation of executive and non-executive and impairments.
accountabilities is essential to good governance: the executives have an Products We are deeply saddened by the deaths of three of our employees at our Strategic advantages operational role, whereas the non-executives have an oversight role, ensuring Diamonds managed sites last year and improving safety at all of our operations during Strong customer relationships and high-quality assets located in close accountability and exercising strong and deliberate challenge through the Diamonds are an important component in both affordable and higher-end the year ahead is of paramount importance.
proximity to growing Asian markets.
board decision-making process to ensure appropriate control mechanisms jewellery.
We are able to service both established and emerging markets Successfully transforming the business by reducing costs, increasing are in place to safely implement our strategy and plans.
Our overall performance gave the board the confidence to raise the 2013 full as we produce the full range of diamonds in terms of size, quality and productivity and improving our position on the cost curve.
year dividend by 15 per cent.
This increased dividend represents an important colour distribution.
Your board devotes much of its time to reviewing, debating and challenging milestone on the road to improved shareholder value.
A large and unique resource base of premium quality thermal and proposals for investment from management, as well as dealing with a wide Titanium dioxide coking coal in Australia, located close to existing infrastructure, which range of other issues including safety and the Groups strategic direction, Stronger business, creating options The minerals ilmenite and rutile, together with titanium dioxide slag, can would be difficult to replicate.
monitoring business performance, optimising capital allocation and expenditure be transformed into a white titanium dioxide pigment or titanium metal.
During 2013 greater discipline and accountability was restored throughout Strong product stewardship strategy including investment in technologies whilst carefully evaluating the wide range of risks facing the business.
The white pigment is a key component in paints, plastics, paper, inks, textiles, the business, particularly in the allocation and management of capital.
to reduce emissions from our products.
Titanium metals key properties of light We simplified and strengthened our systems in this area and improved Leadership weight, chemical inertness and high strength make it ideal for use in medical decision-making capability across the organisation.
Key production locations Key sales destinations Leadership is critical at all levels at board level, at executive level, and applications and in the aerospace industry.
We are committed to effective succession planning Your board regularly evaluates opportunities put forward by the business Australia Japan at both the board and executive level.
My goal is to make sure your board Borates against all competing uses for cash, striving to achieve the right balance Namibia South Korea combines the diverse blend of skills and international experience that is Refined borates are used in hundreds of products and processes.
They are between disciplined investment, strengthening our balance sheet and Europe available to it now and to enhance it further for the future.
Rio Tintos board a vital ingredient of many home and automotive applications, and are returning cash to investors.
should have the best blend of appropriately skilled and experienced people essential nutrients for crops.
They are commonly used in glass and ceramic The reduction in our net debt during 2013 is an indication of our commitment Full operating review on page 32. from our industry, but also outside of it.
applications including fibreglass, television screens, floor and wall tiles, to a stronger balance sheet and provides flexibility in terms of returns and and heat-resistant glass.
2013 saw a number of changes to the executive team, starting with the investment.
We are building more resilience in our business, which gives Iron Ore product group appointment of Sam Walsh as chief executive.
Following Guy Elliotts decision Salt your board greater flexibility to respond to macroeconomic developments Rio Tintos Iron Ore product group is the second-largest producer supplying the to retire at the end of 2013, your board appointed Chris Lynch as chief financial Salt is one of the basic raw materials for the chemicals industry and is as they arise.
global seaborne iron ore trade.
After a decade of rapid expansion in Australia, officer with effect from April 2013.
The board announced the promotion of indispensable to a wide array of automotive, construction and electronic and more recent growth in Canada, we are well positioned to benefit from the Strategy development and disciplined delivery Jean-Sbastien Jacques as chief executive, Copper, following Andrew Hardings products, as well as for water treatment, food and healthcare.
continuing strong demand in China and other Asian markets.
We are driving During the year your board supported Sam Walsh on the implementation of his move to become chief executive, Iron Ore and appointed Greg Lilleyman as Other products include high purity iron, metal powders and zircon.
performance through effective project management and value-adding plan to improve performance, strengthen the balance sheet and deliver results.
Group executive, Technology & Innovation with effect from 1 January 2014, operational efficiencies.
We worked with him on reviewing the companys strategy and reaffirmed our following the retirement of Preston Chiaro from the Executive Committee Strategic advantages commitment to invest in and operate long-life, low-cost, expandable mines at the end of 2013.
Products Portfolio of industry-leading businesses, operating in attractive markets.
The board also took the time to visit our world-class iron ore Iron ore Preston retires as an executive on 1 April 2014.
I would like to thank Demand-led, integrated operations that are responsive to the changing operations in the Pilbara in Western Australia to get a deeper understanding Iron is the key ingredient in the production of steel, one of the most Guy and Preston for their significant contributions to Rio Tinto over their many external environment.
of the strategic and operational issues at play.
fundamental and durable products for modern-day living, with uses from years with the Group and we wish them well in their retirement as executives.
Poised to benefit from mid to late-cycle demand growth as consumption railways to paperclips.
Our iron ore mines are located in Australia and Canada.
Sam, his executive team, and all of our 66,000 employees across the world have increases in emerging markets.
Moving forward, I am very pleased to announce today the appointment of worked hard during a challenging year and made a large contribution to restore two new non-executive directors.
Anne Lauvergeon and Simon Thompson will Strategic advantages Key production locations Key sales destinations the company to a position of strength.
I thank all of our people for their efforts bring a wealth of experience to your board given their combined experience Proximity of the expanded Pilbara operations in Australia to the worlds and commend Sam for this leadership during a tough time.
But there is more North America North America in a number of leading international businesses.
We also announced today largest and fastest-growing customer base.
Australia South East Asia that Vivienne Cox will stand down at the end of the annual general meeting Success in increasing operational efficiency and controlling costs.
Amidst continued market uncertainty, impacts of quantitative easing in London in April, after nine years on the board.
I would like to thank Vivienne South Africa India Vast potential for brownfield developments near existing infrastructure.
and austerity programmes still washing through markets around the world, for her significant contribution to Rio Tinto over this time and wish her well your board has tasked the executive team with ensuring they successfully for the future.
Proven success in implementing large-scale and complex, value-generating Full operating review on page 30. execute our strategy and make sure the gains delivered are sustained.
The major projects on time and budget without significant impact on We are a balanced and diverse board, comprising myself as chairman, two discipline of 2013 must be carried forward into the year ahead and beyond, operational efficiency.
executive directors and eight soon to be nine after the new appointments and Energy product group with a specific focus on delivering our growth projects and producing further Key production locations Key sales destinations Vivienne Coxs retirement independent non-executive directors, all of whom Rio Tintos Energy product group is a leading seaborne supplier of thermal productivity improvements at all of our sites.
are rigorously assessed to ensure they continue to meet strict independence and coking coal to Asian customers and the uranium we produce is used Australia China criteria.
The directors bring with them truly international experience from a As geopolitical and social risk increase, we remain convinced that businesses by electricity providers worldwide.
We have operations, exploration and Canada Japan wide range of professional, business and public office backgrounds.
which form effective relationships and partnerships around the world will development projects in Australia, Namibia, Mozambique and Canada.
South Korea prosper over the longer term.
Rio Tinto has always taken its role as a responsible business very seriously and throughout the year ahead we will continue to build our capabilities in stakeholder engagement and sustainable Full operating review on page 34. development.
We believe earning the trust of our host communities and governments is vital in creating sustainable shareholder value.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Chairmans letter continued Chief executives statement The board committees have always played an important oversight role, freeing relatively strong in developing economies, the underlying structural fragilities Rio Tintos turnaround on track your board to focus on strategic matters.
The board committees, under the remain.
With volatility expected to continue over the short term, we will stand Rio Tinto is a truly great business with renewed vigour and purpose, effective leadership of their respective chairs, carry out important and by the priorities we set for ourselves a year ago: to improve performance, focused on delivering greater shareholder value.
demanding roles on your boards behalf and facilitate the embedding of strengthen the balance sheet and deliver results.
These priorities have already effective governance across the organisation.
You can read more about the proved effective in making us a more robust organisation, and with continuing work that they do on pages 61 to 63. focus, we will grow stronger still.
Dear shareholders, The 2013 board and committee performance is described on page 58.
Improving performance 2013 was a challenging and very rewarding year for Rio Tinto.
I was proud comfortable with the effectiveness of your board and the contribution each We exceeded our targets for reducing operating cash costs and exploration to be appointed chief executive of your company a year ago at a time when member of your board is making.
These results demonstrate the exceptional shareholders had lost some confidence in the business.
work being done across the business to address our cost base.
These efforts Trust and confidence in management had to be rebuilt.
While I was determined Looking ahead will continue in 2014, in order to reach a US$3 billion improvement in operating that Rio Tinto would not repeat the mistakes of the past, I also recognised the I feel very privileged to be the chairman of this wonderful organisation.
Our aim is to sustain exploration and evaluation spend solid foundations of an outstanding company with extremely good people Rio Tinto had to make some significant changes over the last year.
Through our at around 2013 levels in 2014 and beyond.
transformation we are a simpler and stronger company.
Through our improved Our 2013 performance was further bolstered by increased production.
earnings and reduced costs we are financially stronger.
Through our actions we Transforming our business to focus on greater value for shareholders We set new production records in bauxite, thermal coal and iron ore, and are reducing risk and increasing discipline.
Our strategy and priorities are clear.
So, while Rio Tinto was in many ways an outstanding business, we needed to across the Group, our total production grew by nine per cent in 2013 on a I see great opportunities ahead as we build a long-term future for our business.
refocus on meeting the expectations of the owners of our company.
Our focus on productivity will persist in 2014, in The work we do is important, we provide the raw materials used in everyday life our 2013 goal as delivering greater value for our shareholders and during the tandem with our keen eye on costs.
Our efforts to reduce costs and increase and as hundreds of millions of people move from rural to urban areas over the year, I personally met with and listened to hundreds of investors and analysts, performance, resulted in improved underlying earnings of US$10.2 billion, coming decades, there will be increased demand for the metals and minerals as well as our employees, customers and suppliers across the world.
up ten per cent on 2012. we produce.
They all told me, we want to see Rio Tinto return to a position of strength.
Strengthening our balance sheet I look forward to reporting on the further progress of your company in Similarly, I too want Rio Tinto to be a company admired and recognised not The excellent performance achieved in reducing costs, together with volume a years time.
just for superior performance but for embodying our values in all that we do.
growth, is leading to stronger cash flows.
Combined with cash inflows from In February 2013, I set out my plan to improve and build upon the strong divestments and lower capital expenditure, we were more than able to reverse foundations of the company.
This included creating a tightly-run, and more the increase in net debt we saw in the first half of the year.
In 2013, we have done just this and In November, we announced our breakthrough pathway for expanding our forged ahead with a single-minded emphasis on delivering our priorities to Pilbara operations towards 360 million tonnes per annum at a US$3 billion improve performance, strengthen the balance sheet and deliver results in Jan du Plessis lower capital cost than previously planned.
This is a clear example of our every market in which we operate, everywhere around the world.
Chairman disciplined approach to capital allocation.
I am confident we have stronger, Our performance in 2013 reflects the efforts of all of our 66,000 employees 5 March 2014 stricter processes in place for how we allocate capital.
As we move forward to turn this business around.
I am humbled by the enthusiasm, passion and with reinforced systems embedded at the core of our investment approach, talent I have seen, and the willingness of all our people to embrace the change you have my absolute commitment that each and every dollar we are investing required and improve performance.
Against a backdrop of continuing market on your behalf is being rigorously scrutinised.
uncertainty, we have improved earnings and cash flows.
We have reduced Our focus for the year ahead will be to continue to pay down debt and further costs, net debt and capital expenditure.
We have delivered greater value for strengthen the balance sheet.
Our aim is to provide the board with options for you, our shareholders, which is reflected in the 15 per cent increase in our how best to deliver value to you, whether this is through value-accretive growth, 2013 full year dividend.
or returning cash, or a combination of both.
In short, last year, we did what we said we would do.
Our 2013 net earnings reflected impairments on some of In keeping with our strategy, 2013 saw the completion of five major capital our assets and we are absolutely focused on making sure we improve project projects that have already started delivering results: the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold execution and deliver further business improvements.
This, together with mine: the first phase of our Pilbara iron ore expansion: the Argyle underground improving our safety performance, will be our continuing focus in 2014. diamond mine: the Kestrel coal mine extension: and the AP60 aluminium Building a safer business smelter.
We expect to deliver strong returns from these key assets in our portfolio over the coming years.
While we can look back with pride at the many successes we delivered in 2013, we failed to meet our critical goal of no fatalities in our business.
Three of our Ongoing commitment colleagues died working at Rio Tinto managed operations last year.
Thirty seven In 2013 we rose to the challenge and navigated difficult times to emerge as people died at non-managed operations, including 33 at the Grasberg mine in a leaner and much stronger company.
2014 will be about locking in the gains Papua, Indonesia.
With regard to Grasberg, we are achieved last year and continuing to strengthen the business.
continuing to work with our joint venture partner to share our safety capabilities and learnings so we can both improve our safety performance, and this process I would like to close by paying tribute to all of our employees across the world.
Without their efforts we would not have been able to turn around the performance of the business and I am energised by the effort, enthusiasm and passion for All of these deaths weigh heavily on me personally and I, and my management improvement which I have seen first-hand in every part of our organisation.
Over team, feel enormous sorrow for the families and friends of these colleagues.
I the next 12 months and beyond we will remain focused on safety and upholding was also deeply saddened by a further fatality at Grasberg and another at the our values wherever we operate in the world.
Above all, we will continue our Gove refinery this year.
I am determined that we will turn our safety single-minded focus on delivering greater value for you, our shareholders.
We have made significant gains over the course of our safety journey but we have more to do.
Strong safety leadership, improved management of critical risks, and learning from all significant incidents are of paramount importance.
Delivering our strategy Sam Walsh AO We are still operating in a volatile macroeconomic environment.
Despite more Chief executive optimistic signs coming through from OECD economies, and growth remaining 5 March 2014 4 5 4 riotinto.
