Chairmans statement Having achieved record results for the last two years in difficult economies, we are confident of further strong growth ahead.
GOvernAnCe The Board recognises the importance of good governance in promoting appropriate values and corporate behaviour.
The corporate governance report on pages 36 to 41 explains clearly how this is achieved.
We are fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code and consider this report a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
We continue to pay due regard to maintaining both a balanced and diverse Board and I am satisfied that we achieve that.
During the year we commissioned an external review of the work of the Board Chris COle and its committees.
I am pleased to report that the Board was found to operate in an effective and efficient manner.
AnOther yeAr OF reCOrd results Further details of this review are included in the corporate I am delighted to be able to report that strong revenue governance report on page 38.
As we reported last year, growth, ongoing operational efficiency and reduced Hugh Etheridges services as a non-executive director were financing costs have delivered record profits again.
extended to allow overlap with Suzanne Woods first year We saw strong performance in both divisions although as finance director coupled with the mandatory five-yearly growth continues to be dominated by Sunbelt.
With rotation for the 2013 14 audit of our external audit partner.
indications that construction markets are at an early stage We will appoint a replacement for Hugh in 2013 to allow of recovery, our performance is being driven primarily for a period of familiarisation before he leaves Ashtead by the structural change in the US rental market and in June 2014. our increased market share.
dividend Our full-year underlying pre-tax profit was 247m, up It is our policy to have a progressive dividend policy, with 116m, and our revenue was 1,362m, up 227m from last consideration to both profitability and cash generation at year, confirming that we have continued to take advantage a level that is sustainable across the cycle.
Reflecting our of increasing rental penetration and obtain market share excellent and, we believe, sustainable performance this from a broad range of competitors.
year we are recommending a final dividend of 6.0p per share making 7.5p for the year 2012: 3.5p.
Assuming Rental revenue at Sunbelt rose 21% to $1,611m, while the final dividend is approved at the forthcoming Annual average fleet on rent increased by 13% and yield by 7%.
General Meeting, it will be paid on 6 September to This included a first-time contribution from JMR Industries, shareholders on the register on 16 August 2013. a specialist company providing services to the oil and gas industry, acquired in November and a full-year contribution Our peOple from Topp, acquired in April 2012.
A-Plant also performed It gives me great pleasure that the faith our management strongly seeing revenue rise 9% to 206m driven by an and staff demonstrated in Ashtead through the economic increase in average fleet on rent of 11%, offset by a 2% cycle is now being justified fully.
I would like to thank them decline in yield.
as always for their dedication, enthusiasm and commitment to providing the highest quality service to our customers The Group delivered a strong EBITDA margin of 38% and driving forward the sustainable growth of the business.
2012: 34% as we continued to benefit from improved operational efficiency.
This resulted in a 36% increase OutlOOK in EBITDA to 519m and increased operating profit of Having achieved record results for the last two years 290m 2012: 181m.
in difficult economies, we are confident of further strong growth ahead as we continue to capitalise on our increased The successful refinancing of our senior secured notes market share, the ongoing trend to rental and consolidation early in the year resulted in a lower underlying net interest in a highly fragmented market.
With the US market only charge of 44m 2012: 51m which also contributed to the just showing signs of recovery and the UK stabilising, there increase in underlying pre-tax profit.
Underlying earnings are good prospects for Ashtead.
With our strong financial per share grew 83% to 31.6p 2012 17.3p.
Our leverage has position supporting the market dynamics, I am confident steadily decreased since 2010 and our aim is to maintain in our established momentum and managements focus our leverage below two times net debt to EBITDA.
to continue to deliver shareholder value.
With the anticipation of market recovery and the ongoing opportunities from structural market changes, we continue to invest predominantly in organic growth, albeit remaining alert to strategic bolt-on acquisitions.
We have invested in fleet ahead of our original plans and our fleet at cost is now 2.2bn 2012: 1.9bn.
At 30 April 2013 the average age of our fleet stood at 32 months compared to 37 months last Chris COle year.
So our fleet is the largest, youngest and best quality ChAirMAn it has ever been and we are reaping the benefits of this 19 June 2013 strong position in the market.
4 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
