Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 4 Strategic report CHAIRMANS REVIEW This is my first Chairmans review.
Before I with technologies that take years to develop.
joined Rolls-Royce I sensed that it would be an This creates the necessity of a long-term In 2013, Rolls-Royce extraordinary privilege to serve such a great view and for long-term investment, together delivered another year company with such a rich history.
So it has with a commensurate attitude and mindset proved to be.
In the past nine months I have for risk.
of growth in underlying travelled widely and met a broad crossOur strategy must be directed towards revenues, underlying section of colleagues, customers, suppliers creating a sustainable business.
All have been free with their Rolls-Royce that means driving profitable profits and orders.
time and open with their perspectives.
growth whilst achieving a positive economic, I have two dominant initial impressions.
We will The Board is proposing The first is of the pride that people across deliver better power to our customers, use the world have in the activities and innovation to secure a better future, and an increase in the final achievements of the Group.
We have a team build on todays achievements to develop payment to shareholders that really does aspire to be trusted to a better business, ready to meet the deliver excellence in everything it does, yet is challenges ahead.
of 13.4p bringing the full under no illusions about what this will take.
Research and development, and innovation There is pride but no sense of complacency.
They will become The second impression is of opportunity.
more so as we strive to improve the quality Some of our business segments face strong and performance of our power systems and headwinds and there will be some inevitable services.
The Trent XWB, for example, has volatility.
But, overall, Rolls-Royce competes in proved to be the most efficient large civil markets characterised by long-term demand aero engine in the world.
Design and growth and the opportunity to add value.
development of that engine started in 2006.
This is as true of the services we provide as In our Marine business, innovation and the it is of our products.
These opportunities are development of liquefied natural gas LNG increasingly global in nature.
Rolls-Royce has power systems has led to the possibility a great British history but its future has to of a 40percent reduction in a ships CO 2 be as a great global company.
emissions and the virtual elimination of sulphur and oxides of nitrogen emissions In 2013, Rolls-Royce delivered another year compared with conventional, diesel-powered of growth in revenues, profits and order book.
This presents a clear environmental This performance was achieved against a and commercial opportunity.
These background of significant global economic innovations have also taken years to develop.
The 13percent of increase in the payment to shareholders to We are committed to both the short-term 22.0pence reflects the confidence that the performance and to the long-term health Board has in the fundamentals of the of the Group.
It is a matter of both-and, business as well as in its future prospects.
In my experience the most successful, most enduring organisations The increase in the payment to shareholders invest equivalent resource and imagination also recognises the importance that many of in the long-term health of their business our investors place on annual cash returns.
as they do in their short to medium-term Nevertheless a key characteristic of performance.
Rolls-Royce is that it is a long-term business Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 5 Ian Davis Chairman Dwelling on performance, I am totally women and there may be cultural and In the Queens Birthday Honours, Michel supportive of John Rishton and the historical reasons for this.
For a Group Dubarry, Rolls-Royce International President management teams operational focus on like Rolls-Royce, this should be as much France, Head of Europe and Northern the 4 Cs customer, concentration, cost and an opportunity as a problem.
Purposeful Africa, was awarded an OBE.
John describes the progress, and the diversity is an important part of our Years Honours, Hamid Mughal, Director continuing opportunities, of these 4 Cs in long-term planning.
of Manufacturing, received an OBE and my this report.
I am particularly pleased at the fellow Board member, Warren East, a CBE.
Fundamental to a healthy company are progress in improving customer service and Their recognition is well deserved and I strong ethical standards and behaviours, delivery reliability.
Engineering and congratulate each of them.
As John technology companies can have an inbuilt Rishton has repeatedly made clear, the I would also like, in closing, to acknowledge tendency to focus on product rather than Group will not tolerate improper conduct.
Sir Simon Robertson for his inspirational on customer.
Yet it is our customers who pay We are striving to ensure that every single chairmanship and leadership of the Board.
our bills and finance our investments.
It is Rolls-Royce employee knows what is I am sure that, over time, I will forgive him of the highest strategic and commercial expected of them and understands the for being such a hard act to follow.
importance that we deliver on our product standards to be met.
The Board and and service commitments to our customers.
I feel honoured to have the opportunity to management are united in this endeavour.
serve as Chairman of Rolls-Royce.
We have, Over and above the continuing need for In particular, I will focus on ensuring that and will have, challenges.
However, I would investment, I would like to comment on we have the appropriate governance be disappointed if this review does not a couple of themes relating to long-term arrangements and structures in place convey my deep sense of opportunity to health: diversity and good governance.
to reinforce the required conduct and improve both short-term performance and behaviours, wherever we operate.
I have remarked already on the need for to build the long-term health of the Group.
Rolls-Royce to establish itself as an even Over recent years, the Board and 2013 was a good year for Rolls-Royce and I more global Group.
This will require us to management have been greatly assisted would like to thank my colleagues for their become more diverse in our workforce and by the wise counsel of our International hard work and efforts in making this happen.
To achieve our Advisory Board IAB whose membership Ian Davis aspirations we have to attract, retain and is described on page 38.
The IABs primary Chairman develop the best talent everywhere we role is to provide context on political and operate commercial as much as economic developments around the world 12 February 2014 engineering, female as much as male.
and to alert the Group to possible long-term opportunities, threats and risks.
They are We are making real progress.
Our global also available to provide counsel and support apprenticeship programme enjoys worldin specific areas of expertise.
Our record graduate intake to the IAB members for their contributions.
in 2013 includes 32 nationalities from 97 universities around the world.
Additionally I am also indebted to my fellow Board we continue to broaden internationally our directors for their hard work and remarkable network of University Technology Centres commitment to our Group as well as for which are so important to our future.
But their patience and good humour in dealing more needs to be done.
The Board has been augmented in January 2014 by Lee Hsien We can and need to do more to attract and, Yang and Warren East, both of whom bring particularly, retain exceptional women.
a wealth of experience in global technology The engineering sector has not always been oriented industries.
Further details of their a favoured destination for well-qualified careers are included on pages 36 and 37.
I am delighted that they have joined the Group.
