Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 12 chairmans statement Our strategy of expanding our product portfolio, geographic reach and end market exposure has enabled us to deliver another year of record order intake, revenue and profit.
RogeR Lockwood chaiRman Financial Highlights Rotorks network of sales subsidiaries and the 11.7% increase in dividends The 13% growth in revenue this year to process of integration is well underway.
Positive contributions from all 578m benefited from the four acquisitions Flowco, acquired in July, services the water acquisitions during the year made during the year and a currency utilities after-market and has become part of A number of product launches in tailwind.
On an organic constant currency our Rotork UK business.
Renfro, acquired in 2013 with more planned for 2014 basis revenue grew 6% with currency adding August, provides Rotork with the opportunity The global markets that we serve 2% and acquisitions providing the remaining to create a US-based valve adaption business remain active 5%.
Adjusted operating profit increased by similar to our current Valvekits business in the 15% to 151m, or 9% on an organic UK.
All of the acquisitions made positive constant currency basis, delivering an contributions during the year, as did Soldo, operating margin of 26.2%, compared with the Italian switchbox manufacturer acquired 25.8% in 2012.
Each of the divisions reported in November 2012, which delivered a good improved margins compared with the prior first full year of trading within the year.
Earnings per share increased 11% to Instruments division.
114.8 pence per share or, based on adjusted profit, by 14% to 124.9 pence.
With Innovation has always been one of Rotorks operating cash conversion of 100% in the core strengths.
This year saw a number of year, net cash balances increased by 9m to product launches with more planned in each 69m at the year end.
The Rotork Innovation Design & Engineering Centre RIDEC based Growth has been generated this year from in Chennai India has supported these developing both new end markets and new efforts, working with all Rotork divisions and geographies and from a combination of helping accelerate the pace of innovation.
Acquisitions have always been a part of our I would like to acknowledge the high level of growth strategy and this year we acquired commitment and professionalism of our four companies that supplemented our employees and to congratulate them on their organic growth.
contribution in delivering another year of record results.
At the beginning of 2013 we acquired the Schischek group of companies, which Board Composition performed very well in the year, and mid-year After serving on our Board for nine years, we acquired GTA Group, a rack and pinion latterly as the Senior Independent Director, actuator manufacturer.
The products of both Ian King will retire at the June Board meeting.
acquisitions are now being sold through I would like to thank Ian on behalf of the Strategic Report 01-41 13 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 chairmans statement 11.7% dividend increase Board for his excellent contribution to the acquisitions.
Overall, I remain satisfied that Outlook Group over this period.
We are currently the composition of the Board with its broad We continue to invest for growth, recruiting to fill the vacancy that Ians range of experience and skills enables it to increasing our international sales network departure will create and we will announce fulfil its role to full effect.
and expanding our product portfolio this and any consequent changes in positions both organically and by acquisition to in due course.
The Board is compliant with Corporate Governance strengthen our presence in the wider the Corporate Governance Code at present in The Board is committed to high standards flow control market.
that half the Board, excluding myself as of governance, we see this as central to Chairman, are independent non-executives delivering increasing shareholder value over The global markets that we serve remain and following the changes outlined above it the long term.
The Board considers all the active, providing further opportunities for will remain compliant.
In addition the Board aspects of the business necessary to provide growth, although we recognise that we are meets our stated aim that 25% of our good governance and these are set out in the likely to experience weakness within some independent non-executives are women.
I am pleased regions due to economic conditions and a to be able to confirm that Rotork complies headwind from currency.
Nevertheless the Board Performance with all aspects of the 2010 and 2012 Board remains confident of achieving further We have used external consultants to versions of the UK Corporate Governance progress in the coming year.
conduct an independent appraisal of Board Code.
effectiveness for a number of years and did Roger Lockwood so again this year.
The feedback from the Dividend Chairman review was positive and there was a strong The Board recommends a final dividend of sense that the Board has continued to build 30.0p per share which, taken together with 3 March 2014 on the progress made in prior years.
There is the 2013 interim dividend, gives a payment a level of openness and support between of 48.05p per share 2012 dividend: 43.0p, Board members which allows the Board to representing a 11.7% increase in dividends.
function effectively and in a way that all This dividend will be payable on 19 May 2014 members are comfortable with.
The review to shareholders on the register on noted that improvements had been made 11 April 2014. this year in the process of setting strategy and monitoring the performance of new initiatives and acquisitions.
The focus areas for the coming year include succession planning, talent management and continuing References to adjusted profit throughout this document to manage the growth of the Company, are defined as the IFRS profit, whether operating profit whether that is within the existing operations or profit before tax, with 12.1m 2012: 7.4m of or through the making and integration of amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
