Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 13 chAirmAnS STATemenT The Group delivered a robust performance in a challenging economic environment with adverse movements in currency exchange rates and polymer prices.
I am confident that the underlying business improvements will continue to be achieved with RPC well positioned to benefit from an economic recovery going forward.
The Groups strong market positions and leading technological capabilities provide a solid platform to deliver good medium to long-term growth.
In order to sustain the level of return on capital oveRvIeW oF THe YeaR GoveRnanCe employed on a long-term basis, the Group Against an economic environment which Corporate governance continues to evolve and hasembarked on the business optimisation continued to be challenging, I am pleased to emerging practice has remained a regular subject programme, Fitter for the Future.
This report that the Group delivered another robust for discussion at the Board.
We seek to run our programme is focused on optimising the Groups performance in spite of a number of external businesses in a responsible way, recognising mainly european product market combinations factors which adversely affected our profitability that good corporate governance supports the and includes a range of closures, cost efficiency in the year.
Sales were lower at 1,051m 2012: long-term health of the Group.
During the year measures and business transfers.
Under the 1,130m andadjusted operating profit fell by 4% the Board was subject to an independent current scope, the project will cost 30m, of from 93.5m to 89.7m as both were impacted by external board evaluation which confirmed that which 19m was incurred in 2012 13, and is the translation effect of a weakened euro versus the Board operates well and with only minor expected to realise steady state benefits sterling.
Overall profits were also affected by the recommendations for improvement made.
ofatleast 12m per annum by 2015 16. time lag effect in passing through polymer price The Group is able to provide many opportunities Opportunities for further growth exist through variations to customers.
Underlying activity for individuals to make their own contribution to corporate development.
In November 2012, levels were similar to last year with the sales the business.
On behalf of the Board I would like theGroup acquired the Manuplastics mixcontinuing to improve towards higher added to thank all employees for their outstanding business turnover c. 8m p. a. enhancing its value products.
Further measures to optimise efforts, often in challenging circumstances.
They UKmanufacturing and sales base for personal thecost base and business portfolio were taken.
have enabled the Group to deliver another robust care products.
The Board regularly reviews the Adjusted earnings per share was 34.8p 2012: financial performance for its shareholders, and Groups business portfolio and its associated 37.3p.
Cash flow remained well controlled with Ilook forward to their continued contribution in growth prospects both within and outside the Group ending the year with net debt of 171m achieving our strategy for the Group.
DIvIDenD BoaRD sTRaTeGY In line with the progressive dividend policy, the In October 2012 Ron Marsh announced his RPCs strategy is to grow and develop leading Board is recommending a final dividend of 10.6p intention to retire from the Group and on 1 May positions in its chosen product markets and per share making a total for the year of 14.9p.
2013 stepped down as Chief executive, with geographical areas in the rigid plastic packaging PimVervaat, Finance Director, assuming the role Subject to approval at the forthcoming AGM, the industry, by establishing strong long-term of Chief executive from that date.
Ron will retire final dividend will be paid on 6 September 2013 relationships with its customers and by from the Board at the forthcoming AGM on toshareholders on the register on 9 August 2013. developing high quality, innovative products 10July.
The Group achieves and maintains its leading market positions by Ron has been Chief executive of RPC since 1989, continued innovation and investment, leveraging leading the management buy-out in 1991 and its RPCs leading technological capability, flotation in 1993 and so has been responsible for manufacturing and supplying product efficiently shaping and leading the RPC Group for over and through strategic corporate development.
I would like to take this opportunity J R P Pike tothank Ron, on behalf of the Board, Organic growth through innovation, Chairman shareholders and employees of the Group, for concentrating on high added value products, his very significant contribution to the success continues to be a major strategic focus.
impact of the recessionary economic environment however appears to delay I am pleased to welcome Simon Kesterton, investment by customers in new packaging whojoined the Board on 1 April 2013 as Group products which has slowed down growth Finance Director designate and became Group opportunities.
Simon was latterly Chief Strategic Officer, european CFO During the year the Group completed the andDirector of IAC Group, an international, integration of Superfos, successfully withdrew multi-billion dollar, leading tier one supplier its businesses from the european vending cup ofautomotive components and systems.
market and sold its loss making automotive components business.
