Acting Chairmans statement Including acquisitions and the effects of currency translation, group revenue grew by I a m delighted to report another year of strong 10% 7% on an organic, constant currency financial performance, led by our developing basis following selective price increases and the further expansion of our brand portfolios market operations in Latin America, Africa, to offer a wider choice of products at Asia Paci c and South Africa.
Currency movements had anadverse impact of five percentage points on group revenue growth, mainly due to the weakening of the South African rand and Central European currencies against the US dollar.
Beverage volumes totalled 306 million hectolitres, up 7% with lager volumes up 6% and soft drinks volumes up 15%.
Reported earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and exceptional items EBITA grew by 14% 9% on an organic, constant currency basis, re ecting the bene cial impact of the Fosters acquisition.
Reported EBITA margin was 70 basis points ahead of the prior year at 18.6%.
Raw material input costs rose in line with expectations by mid single digits due to higher commodity costs, partially offset by procurement and other savings.
Fixed costs increased due to in ation and investments in new production capacity in some markets, although again these were partially offset by ef ciency savings elsewhere.
Pro t before tax declined 16% to US$4,712 million, principally re ecting the inclusion of signi cant non-cash exceptional gains on transactions in the prior year.
Adjusted earnings were 12% higher than the prior year and adjusted earnings pershare were up 11% to 238.7 US cents.
Capital expenditure for the year was US$1,479 million as we continued to invest inadditional capacity, commissioning new breweries in Zambia, Nigeria and Uganda while extending existing facilities elsewhere.
Free cash ow was US$3,230 million, an increase of US$182 million compared with Dear Shareholder John Manser the prior year.
Net debt fell by US$2,161 million, ending the year at US$15,701 million.
Acting Chairman It is with sadness that, in my current role as The groups gearing ratio as at 31 March 2013 acting Chairman, I am delivering this years was 57.2%.
opening statement on behalf of Graham Mackay, who is currently on leave of absence The board has recommended a final dividend for medical reasons.
Graham has led of 77 US cents per share which will be paid SABMiller with great acuity, dedication and to shareholders on 23 August 2013.
This integrity over the last 16 years, and our brings the total dividend for the year to 101 thoughts are with him and his family at this US cents per share, an increase of 11% over dif cult time.
Results and dividend A past that prepares us for the future I am delighted to report another year In acknowledging Graham Mackays final ofstrong financial performance, led by year in an executive capacity, I offer my own ourdeveloping market operations in perspective on the groups achievements, LatinAmerica, Africa, Asia Paci c and strengths and prospects, in the context of SouthAfrica.
our recent history and the dramatic evolution of the brewing sector during Grahams management career here.
6 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In the USA, following the merger with Miller Castle Lager Brewing Company in 2002, we re ned and growing across Africa adapted our skills to succeed in the worlds Castle Lager, a brand most competitive and sophisticated consumer synonymous with SABMillers market, gaining brands which are now part heritage in South Africa, ofan increasingly successful international posted its second year of premium portfolio.
double digit growth driven by strong trade execution, demonstrating that even a The premiumisation of the beer category brand with over 100 years isatrend we are now leading in many of ofsales behind it can remain ourdeveloping markets, establishing local relevant to a new generation of consumers.
The brand premium beers that trade on national pride is also now establishing and offer affordable luxury to consumers a powerful position as a looking to trade up.
At the lower end of the regional brand across the price ladder, particularly in Africa, we have restof Africa.
set out to compete with informal alcohol through the development of affordable beers made from locally available ingredients.
That SABMiller should emerge from modest Our local approach Westarted with the sorghum-based Eagle beginnings in South Africa to become a This belief, that beer remains in essence Lager in Uganda and subsequently launched leading global consumer products company alocal product, rooted in the heritage and two new cassava beers in Mozambique and is a remarkable achievement.
It is still more culture of particular places or communities, Ghana.
While these products open up new remarkable when one considers the now sets us apart from our major competitors markets for us, they also provide a new considerable obstacles it has overcome as and informs much of our attitude to brand income stream for farmers previously working part of that journey.
In its early days, South management.
Instead of applying a one-sizeat subsistence level and create a new source African Breweries posed little challenge to ts-all approach, we aim to develop full brand of revenue for governments.
the established giants of European and US portfolios in each of our markets, informed by brewing.
The industry was more collaborative a deep appreciation for local consumer Management and organisation than is the case today and the business was tastes across a spectrum of prices and The spirit and attitude formed by the able to learn from other companies, quietly drinking occasions.
And far from inexorably business in those early years was manifest developing the core skills in brewing and becoming more global over time, the rise of inan energy and restlessness that has brand building that form the basis of the the craft beer segment in the USA, Europe sincebecome the basis for a formidable strong operating culture for which SABMiller and Australia would suggest that, if anything, performance management culture.
beer is becoming more local than ever.
goal-oriented with a high degree of personal accountability, the business developed a In 1989, however, the break up of the cadre of exceptional senior managers, many Sovietbloc provided the catalyst for the This belief, that beer remains of whom I am delighted to say remain with consolidation of the brewing industry and the ustoday.
This highly mobile workforce has in essence a local product, creation of a global industry.
Brewing assets repeatedly demonstrated its ability to turn that had long been neglected by indifferent rooted in the heritage and around underperforming businesses, cutting government owners were now suddenly culture of particular places costs and driving top line growth.
South African Breweries, experience is now proving invaluable again which had already participated in government or communities, now sets as we look to grow our operations in Australia privatisations in southern Africa, seized the us apartfrom our major following the acquisition of the Fosters opportunity to break out of the continent business in late 2011. competitors and informs andbegin expanding into Asia, and Central and Eastern Europe.
much of our attitude to brand The business today management.
The result, today, is an attractive spread of Our strategy at the time was to acquire businesses well balanced globally in terms brewing assets that had typically been poorly of sales volumes, revenues and EBITA, run and to apply the world-class operational spanning both developed and developing skills we had learned to improve the In the core mainstream beer segment, economies and advantageously exposed performance, quality and image of their wevebecome expert at taking undiscovered togrowth markets.
We also enjoy valuable beers.
Initial forays were also driven by a local brands and turning them into national partnerships with the Castel group in Africa, desire to acquire a portfolio of international champions.
In Europe, many of our now China Resources Enterprises in China, brands that could compete on the world iconic national brands began life in much less Anadolu Efes in Turkey and the former Soviet stage.
Perversely, it was the process of glamorous circumstances.
In Latin America, Union and The Coca-Cola Company for whom evaluating brands for international expansion following acquisitions in Central America in were the leading bottler in Africa and Central and more often than not rejecting them 2001 and South America in 2005, we have America.
We continue to be a leader in our that reinforced our respect for the local transformed the image of the beer category sector in terms of our brand management, our nature of beer.
in our markets, improving quality and approach to sustainability and our commitment differentiating our products by package, price to market our products responsibly in every and position.
And in China, our joint venture country in which we operate.
has established the Snow brand, originally from Manchuria, as both the countrys first national beer and now the largest beer brand in the world by volume.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 7 Acting Chairmans statement continued Corporate governance We have also taken steps to hold additional Of cer, and over the last year Graham and The corporate governance update on board meetings in countries where the group Alan have worked together to prepare Alan pages57 to 65 of this report provides has operations.
These will enable the board for the Chief Executive role and to effect a adetailed description of the directors to conduct more detailed occasional reviews staged handover of responsibilities to ensure approach to corporate governance, the of country and regional performance and to appropriate continuity in the management boards application of the UK Corporate hold regular pre-board meeting events at ofthe group.
Governance Code and the role and which non-executive directors have the effectiveness of the board.
opportunity to meet more frequently with This served us in good stead, when in April other members of senior management as this year Graham was diagnosed with a brain The annual appraisal of the effectiveness of well as executive committee members.
The board accordingly accelerated our board and its committees, as well as the Alans planned promotion to Chief Executive annual evaluation of each individual directors Succession with immediate effect while I stepped into the contribution and performance for the year, Turning to succession and change, we breach as acting Chairman to allow Graham assumed particular importance this year in announced in April 2012 that Meyer Kahn medical leave of absence to focus on his light of the succession arrangements which would retire as Chairman after the Annual treatment.
As the transition of management we implemented last year, summarised General Meeting in July 2012, and that responsibilities to Alan was already well below.
In my view, the board and its Graham Mackay would be appointed as advanced, he has simply had to pick up the committees continue to operate effectively Executive Chairman for an interim period remaining executive responsibilities a little and to meet in full their obligations to support ofone year.
At this time we also said that sooner than expected, with the full support management, to monitor performance and Graham would hand over executive ofall of our colleagues on the executive tomaintain the boards strategic oversight.
responsibilities to Alan Clark as our new committee and the directors.
Nevertheless, neither I as acting Chairman, Chief Executive after this years AGM in nor the directors collectively, are complacent July2013, when Graham would become Last year we also reported our intention about matters of corporate governance.
Although the UK toseek and appoint a new independent Where we have elected not to apply certain Corporate Governance Code recommends non-executive director, with the expectation provisions of the Code, we have done so that a chief executive should not go on to that in due course he or she would replace because we believe this to be in the best become chairman of the same company, me as the senior independent director.
interests of shareholders as a whole, and theboard determined that these changes Wewere delighted to be able to announce theresults we have delivered to date do not were in the best interests of SABMiller and Guy Elliotts appointment to this role in seem to us to indicate that these decisions itsshareholders.
Guy is highly experienced have adversely impacted the performance strongbacking of our shareholders and withastrong reputation as a seasoned ofthe group.
wasmade after discussions with major non-executive and business leader.
At the same time beenpart of the leadership team of Rio Tinto, Having decided that a year characterised weannounced anumber of other board a global business working across both bychange and transition was not the right andexecutive succession changes, with emerging and developed markets, and has year to undertake an external evaluation of RobPieterse also retiring from the board.
deep experience of working through joint our boards effectiveness, we conducted ventures and partnerships all very pertinent arigorous and extensive internal review of I am glad to say that these changes, and to our business structure as well as an performance this year, ably orchestrated by ourexplanations for them, were welcomed understanding of consumer-facing businesses our Company Secretary.
The results of this bythe overwhelming majority of shareholders.
acquired during his time on the Cadbury performance and effectiveness assessment The explanation for our decision was even board.
He will be an excellent addition to were reviewed in full and approved by the cited by the Association of British Insurers, in ourboard, and his appointment re ects our board.
Matters identi ed as requiring further a report in December 2012 on the adequacy continued commitment to the process of consideration have been addressed, of companies explanations for not applying progressive renewal of the board and the including changing the frequency and the UK Corporate Governance Code under independent directors in terms of age, lengthof board meetings to ensure more the comply or explain principle, as a best gender and balance of skills.
With Guys regular meetings with additional time to practice example.
The board approved appointment effective on 1 July 2013, we will discuss group strategy, senior executive detailed job speci cations setting out the have appointed six new independent nonsuccession planning and the groups talent respective authorities and responsibilities of executive directors over the past five years.
pipeline below the executive committee level.
the Executive Chairman and Chief Operating Source: Factset and Datastream Share price performance as at 23 May 2013 from 1 April 2010 to 23 May 2013 sterling Note: Share prices are rebased to SABMiller: the International SABMiller 76.3% Brewers Index charts the share 35 price progression of an index of the companys closest peers in the global brewing industry 30 Anheuser-Busch InBev, Carlsberg, Heineken and Molson Coors, relative to 1 April 2010.
The index 25 International is weighted relative to the market Brewers Index 51.4% capitalisation of the brewers as at 1 April 2010.
20 FTSE 100 16.6% 15 Apr 2010 Oct 2010 Apr 2011 Oct 2011 Apr 2012 Oct 2012 May 2013 8 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Transforming the beer category in Latin America Since the acquisition of our interests in South America in 2005, we have transformed the image of the beer category in our markets, driving the development of new packs, price points and brand positions.
Poker, which in 2006 was a regional brand in Colombia with a market share of 18%, is now the countrys largest brand with a 42% share of the beer category.
Sadly, we also announced in April 2013 development of our beverage businesses thatCyril Ramaphosa could not continue inSouth Africa, as well as our developing asa director of SABMiller because of his operations in Namibia.
Cyrilhas served SABMiller with distinction Further board changes since his first appointment as a director and We had previously announced that, barring as acting chairman of our predecessor unforeseen circumstances, I was expected company in South Africa in 1997.
His wise toretire at theannual general meeting in counsel, infectious good humour and deep 2014 and that Guy Elliott would replace me understanding will be sorely missed.
The as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent directors are grateful to Cyril for his friendship Director.
In the light of Grahams illness, the and dedication over many years of service.
board is keeping the situation under review On behalf of everyone at SABMiller, we wish pending the progress of his course of him every success in facing the challenges treatment.
Inthe meantime, I will continue ofhis new role.
asacting Chairman, and an appropriate announcement about the future will be made Executive succession also continued apace as soon as any fide nitive decisions have been in the last year with the appointment of Sue taken.
Taking account of my increased time Clark, formerly Corporate Affairs Director, commitments and responsibilities as acting asAlans successor in the role of Managing Chairman, Mark Armour has agreed to the Director of SABMiller Europe in June 2012. boards request that he succeed me as Sue is making excellent progress, providing chairman of the audit committee, a year strong leadership to the operation in a earlier than planned.
challenging time for these economies.
InOctober we appointed Catherine May Many of you have written to Graham asour new Corporate Affairs Director.
With personally to send him your best wishes her extensive international corporate affairs andmessages of encouragement, and I and communications experience, having know he is very grateful to you all for your previously held similar roles at Centrica and support.
He is inexpressibly proud of this Reed Elsevier, she is already making a major company and its people, of what we have contribution, leading the strong corporate achieved together and the shape it is now affairs function built up by Sue and in.
SABMiller has a strong management continuing to develop the critical capabilities teamwith considerable depth of talent which help to grow our business sustainably and a strong board with a number of for the bene t of all stakeholders.
distinguished non-executive directors whohave provided considerable continuity, In January 2013 Norman Adami was stability and experience over many years promoted to the new role of Chairman, ofgrowth.
I am con dent that under Alan SABMiller Beverages South Africa, to Clarks leadership the management team assume overall strategic responsibility for willcontinue to grow our business and SABMillers beverage businesses in South delivervalue to shareholders.
Norman had, for a number of years, youwill continue to give Alan and all of acted both as managing director of The myfellow directors your support.
South African Breweries Pty Ltd and as chairman of our other beverage interests in South Africa.
However, with the continuing strategic importance of our operations John Manser inSouth Africa, we decided to appoint Acting Chairman anewmanaging director to run the beer business to enable Norman to play a more strategic and in uential role in the further SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 9
