4 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairmans statement Sages performance in 2013 has reinforced our confidence in our strategic direction.
We are realising the benets of a settled strategy on which management is delivering.
Last year, in my first report as Chairman, I set out how this is an exciting It was important to deliver on our commitment to shareholders time in the corporate evolution of Sage, with the leadership team focused of achieving a minimum net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1x.
The payment on delivering a step-change in both the level and sustainability of growth.
of a special dividend of almost 200m in the summer of 2013 helped to achieve this objective and resulted in overall returns to shareholders One year on, I am pleased to report that Sages performance in 2013 of approximately 1bn in a period of 18 months.
What is also important has reinforced our confidence in our strategic direction.
We are realising is confidence that management is investing appropriately in the business the benets of a settled strategy on which management is delivering.
to maintain Sages market-leading positions.
The categorisation of It has been a year of tangible progress, with the Group delivering Sages core product portfolio as Invest, Harvest and Sunset products organic revenue growth of 4%, an improvement on the 2% reported means that significant investment is being redirected from legacy in 2012.
There is clear evidence that the strategy is working, with the products to support our most significant growth opportunities.
In effect, key strategic initiatives progressing well.
I am particularly pleased the portfolio is self-funding the investment in growth.
by the progress made on our technology initiatives, with Sage One The disposal of several products identied as non-core was an now available in eight countries and the model scaling well in the UK.
important feature of the year.
The process was intensive and required We are launching cloud versions of our leading ERP solutions in Europe significant management time across the business.
It also meant that and North America and are rolling out the next phase of connected a number of Sage employees left the business.
The successful services, with a particular focus on mobility and integration.
Sage ERP completion of these disposals was important in streamlining the X3 has also performed well, delivering on our target of double-digit portfolio and removing the distraction of non-core activities.
We are concluding the reconstruction of the Board to ensure that it Our strategy is focused on delivering value to our customers, both contains skills pertinent to the business of Sage.
I am delighted that existing and new, which will drive sustainable growth from our core Jonathan Howell has joined as Chair of the Audit Committee: in addition business.
Our installed base gives us great insight into the requirements to his experience as a CFO he brings good risk management knowledge and needs of our customers.
The software industry is changing, relevant to the payments businesses.
Neil Berkett brings particular and customer requirements are changing, particularly around mobility, strengths from his previous executive experience in turning around integration and on-demand functionality.
Yet the basic demand drivers companies with disruptive technology challenges.
Sadly we lost Jo Harlow for our customers remain: peace of mind: software that is appealing, due to conicts of interest after the acquisition of Nokia by Microsoft: reliable and easy to use: access to knowledgeable support: and control we are actively seeking an appropriate replacement.
Finally we welcome of data with efficiency.
Steve Hare as the new Group CFO with major experience in his career Innovation is at the heart of our strategy to accelerate growth, particularly both in quoted and private equity backed companies.
with respect to our technology and subscription pricing initiatives.
During the year, Tamara Ingram, Mark Rolfe and Ian Mason indicated Technology is a catalyst for adding more value to customers.
Integrating their intentions to retire from the Board, having made a significant a connected service such as payments, CRM or business intelligence, contribution to Sage over many years.
Paul Harrison, formerly is a powerful lever for creating a more valuable relationship with the CFO for 13 years, departed Sage for a new executive challenge.
The value is apparent in higher customer satisfaction scores, Paul made a considerable contribution to Sage over this period, lower churn rates, expanding the number of users, higher revenue per not least in recent years in supporting Guy and establishing the active customer and higher customer lifetime revenue.
They leave with our gratitude and good Subscription pricing requires Sage to change the substance of wishes for the future.
engagement with customers and partners, focusing on the value It has been a year of tangible progress strategically, operationally and of the relationship.
Whilst subscription is an emerging opportunity, nancially.
This could not have been achieved without the dedication, 2013 has seen encouraging further proof that the business can drive focus and commitment of all our people and, on behalf of the Board, this change, whether its through successfully migrating existing I would like to thank all employees for their considerable efforts and customers to the next level up accounting software, reactivating I look forward to another year of continued progress in delivering customers who have stopped taking support, or attracting new users on our plans.
to Sage who previously would have found the up-front costs prohibitive.
We remain alert to opportunities to drive growth through the use of innovation and pricing to strengthen the experience we offer customers.
The importance to our customers of being able to embrace technology on their own terms and at their own pace should not Donald Brydon, Chairman be underestimated.
In offering customers choice in how they deploy their software, combined with market-leading customer support, Sage is differentiated in the market.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 5
