STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Another yeAr of progress.
senior delivered Astrong operAting performAnce during2013.
2013 PERFORMANCE cold-formed components, complex fabricated HRof Bunzl plc, became the Chair of the assemblies and thermal insulation heat shields Remuneration Committee when Ian Much Senior delivered another strong operating performance during 2013, with adjusted profit and systems for the aerospace market.
Both leftthe Group in December 2013. businesses have made encouraging starts before tax increasing by 8% to 98.1m, largely Senior has made significant progress in recent as a result of organic revenue growth in large withSenior and I would like to extend a warm years and I would like to extend the Boards welcome to their employees.
commercial aerospace and the inclusion of thanks to Ian, David and Simon for their strong GAMFG Precision GA, a precision-machining SUSTAINABILITY contribution during this time.
business acquired towards the end of 2012.
Employees, customers, suppliers and investors Group cash generation also remained strong, EMPLOYEES want to work with businesses that operate Seniors strong results are a reflection of the with free cash flow of 63.8m being 11% safely, ethically, fairly and in a way that ahead of the prior year.
Accordingly, the Board quality of people across the Group and, on behalf minimises environmental impact.
Accordingly, of the Board, I would like to thank all the Groups is proposing a final dividend of 3.60 pence per Senior places its values and corporate share.
This would bring total dividends, paid and employees for their significant contribution to responsibility programmes at the heart of Seniors success over the past year.
proposed, for 2013 to 5.12 pence per share, an howit runs its businesses and it is, therefore, increase of 10% over 2012 and slightly ahead pleasing to report continued success at OUTLOOK of the increase in adjusted earnings per share, reducing employee injury rates, water usage The Group continues to operate in its five reflecting the Groups encouraging prospects and carbon emissions during 2013. strategic market sectors: three in Aerospace and healthy dividend cover.
Fluid Conveyance Systems, Gas Turbine CHANGES TO THE BOARD These best ever results, achieved against an Engines and Structures and two in Flexonics 2013 saw a number of changes to the Board.
often challenging economic backdrop, reflect Land Vehicle Emission Control and Industrial InSeptember, Derek Harding was appointed as Seniors strong niche market positions, its Process Control, with each strategic market Group Finance Director, succeeding Simon focus on tough-to-make, highly engineered sector offering healthy and deliverable growth Nicholls who had left at the end of April after five products and the continued emphasis on opportunities.
The Groups strategy has proven years with the Group to take up a similar position serving its customers by delivering excellent to be successful over recent years and, whilst at Cobham plc.
Derek, a Chartered Accountant, operational performance where on-time evolving as the Group gets larger and market joined Senior from Wolseley plc, where he delivery, quality and value are all key measures.
conditions change, it continues to provide hadworked for 11 years in a broad range of In this regard, one of the privileges of being the asolid foundation for the Groups future head office and operating company financial Chairman of Senior is being able to undertake growthaspirations.
roles and he brings extensive experience visits to the individual operating companies, andafresh perspective to theGroup.
The year has started satisfactorily and, with the meeting the Groups enthusiastic and large commercial aerospace market remaining dedicated employees and witnessing, As part of Board succession planning, two of strong and some early signs of an economic first-hand, the ever improving standard of the Groups non-executive Directors, David recovery taking place, progress is expected to thefactories and the embedded culture of Best and Ian Much, who would have served for be made across the Groups operations during continuous improvement across the Group.
seven and eight years respectively by the end 2014.
However, volatile foreign exchange of 2013, indicated early in the year their desire ACQUISITIONS movements add more uncertainty to the to step down from the Board around the end As well as growing organically, Senior also reported Group outcome for the year.
In order to ensure a smooth handover, seeks to increase shareholder value through further ahead, a healthy number ofnew two new non-executive Directors, Celia Baxter the acquisition of capabilities adjacent to its aerospace programmes going into production, and Giles Kerr, were recruited and joined the existing portfolio and two UK-based businesses together with further economic recovery and Board at the beginning of September.
Atlas Composites expected market sharegains in both the who will take over as Chair of the Audit Atlas, a developer of structural composite Aerospace and Flexonics Divisions, mean Committee in April 2014 when David Best solutions for the Formula 1 and aerospace theoutlook for Senior remains encouraging.
steps down from the Board, is currently the markets, was acquired for 2.4m in February Director of Finance at Oxford University and CHARLES BERRY and Thermal Engineering Thermal joined was previously Group Finance Director of Chairman the Group at the end of November for 28.3m.
Celia, the Director ofGroup Thermal specialises in manufacturing hotand www.
com Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 1
