Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Chairmans statement Twelve months ago I wrote: In all parts of no further material issues raised.
During the The events of last year are well Serco, when I visit our contracts I meet people fourth quarter of last year, we developed and documented: in July the Secretary who have the same commitment to service, set in train a comprehensive programme of of State for Justice announced that to making a difference through helping those corporate renewal.
At its heart this programme an independent audit of the billing with whom they work, whilst at the same time aims through leadership, training, guidance, delivering against our promises.
I still believe and appropriate performance management arrangements of the Electronic that at the core of Serco is a combination of to change the balance of drivers within our Monitoring contracts Serco a strong ethos of public service with a real business, such that the commitment to do what operates had highlighted potential entrepreneurial drive to succeed and deliver is right and to deal with our customers fairly and overbilling and in September, against commitments, inside and outside the transparently always transcends that sustained company.
The independent reviews that we drive to outperform.
This will be supported by materials were provided to the have performed of our culture and systems the right management structures and controls Serious Fraud Office on this confirmed a high commitment to client service and best-in-class lines of assurance, to ensure matter.
In August, the Ministry with no evidence of a corrupt culture, and key that through early identification of risks and of Justice MoJ and Serco made procedures and controls that were adequate but issues and their swift resolution, we never again could be improved.
However the reviews also compromise on our values and ethics.
I was announcements regarding the demonstrated the need for attitudinal change, very pleased that at the end of January, the referral to the City of London a change I, our Board, and Ed Casey, our Cabinet Office published a positive assessment Police of the misreporting of data Acting Group Chief Executive, are committed of our programme and, as a consequence, on the Prisoner Escort & Custody to implementing.
The reviews showed that Serco can now be considered on an equal basis culturally there was a drive to succeed and to other suppliers for the award of new contracts.
The issues deliver that could lead our people at times to that were identified on these make decisions that prioritised commercial It is hard for those outside the company to two contracts should never objectives over ethical behaviour.
Also, whilst appreciate how disruptive were the events of have happened and we have our systems and controls formed a solid basis last year to the normal conduct of our business.
for a management framework, there was a lot Not only was our pipeline of contracts with the apologised unreservedly for them.
more we could do to ensure that if there are UK Government impacted by the suspension issues, they are identified early, acted upon, of awardability last summer, but the associated May I take this opportunity on and lessons learned.
reputational damage also adversely affected behalf of the Board to make an our ability to win contracts with the private equally fulsome apology to our I recognise that such inappropriate actions sector.
We have made significant management shareholders.
We are doing and decisions undermine the confidence changes at the most senior level, with new people have in us.
Our company relies upon people, sometimes in an acting capacity, everything in our power to make the confidence of our customers and the needing to assimilate their responsibilities sure that such issues cannot confidence of the public, and anything that and determine how to take forward their reoccur anywhere in our business damages that, damages us.
But it is not just parts of the business.
Absolutely correctly, around the world.
Our objective our company: the whole industry relies on management has focused on the development such confidence.
If it is damaged, we lose and implementation of our programme of continues to be the delivery of the opportunity to show the difference corporate renewal, diverting focus from where excellent public services with outsourcing can make, and we lose the ability they would otherwise be concentrating their openness and transparency, to show how the private sector and competition efforts to make our business more efficient, and I believe the actions we have can contribute to excellent, efficient, low-cost extend existing lines and explore new ones.
This is why your Board has The inevitable consequence has been a material taken and are taking will support taken these matters so seriously.
loss of momentum, particularly in the UK, this now more than ever.
which translates itself into lower organic revenue I was very pleased to reach a settlement with growth and profitability than we would otherwise the UK Government prior to the end of the have aimed to achieve in 2014.
In addition, 2014 financial year, in respect of issues arising will be impacted heavily by a major change of on the Electronic Monitoring contract.
The government policy affecting one of our largest separate audits of our other MoJ contracts and contracts, that for the Australian Department of the Cabinet Offices wider review across our Immigration and Border Protection, whilst there other major UK Central Government contracts is also a greater known impact of attrition from also concluded by the end of the year, with lost contracts such as Electronic Monitoring.
Our experience at Forth Valley and other UK hospitals helped us to win the contract at Fiona Stanley hospital in Perth, Western Australia.
02 Strategic Report It is essential that we take the steps now that are I would also repeat my thanks to Chris Hyman We would not have won the Fiona Stanley necessary to put Serco onto a sound basis for for his enormous contribution to Serco over hospital in Perth, Western Australia, if we had future growth, even if to do that means a degree 19 years.
As CEO since 2002, he took Serco not achieved what we have at Forth Valley and of reversal of past growth.
Key to that is strong, from a predominantly UK business with elsewhere in hospitals in the UK.
We would not effective leadership and I am very pleased to be a turnover of 1.3bn to the 5bn international have won Mt Eden prison in New Zealand had able to announce that Rupert Soames OBE has services business it is today.
we not achieved what we have in prisons in the accepted the Boards invitation to take the role UK and Australia.
We would not have won the of Group Chief Executive.
He will start with us on In thinking about the potential of the business Virginia Department of Transportation contract 1 June.
He has an outstanding track record as for the future, Serco has a unique combination without our traffic management experience chief executive of a FTSE 100 company, having of capabilities with international reach.
No other in the UK and Hong Kong.
created very significant value for shareholders company has the breadth across both frontline during his long tenure at Aggreko plc.
I would and middle and back office services.
No One should not lose sight of what the business like to take this opportunity to express my great other company can apply the experience and did achieve in 2013, despite the issues in our appreciation on behalf of the Board of the work track-record that we have in one of our markets relationship with UK Central Government.
We of Ed Casey, in taking the helm in the most in the UK, Europe, the Americas, the Middle were awarded contracts to a value of 3.7bn difficult of circumstances and providing great East, Asia Pacific, or Australia, to support the and achieved organic revenue growth of 6%, leadership to get the company back on track.
winning of new contracts in another geography.
albeit with a somewhat lower operating margin Alastair Lyons CBE Chairman 03 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Chairmans statement responsibility for the ethical and governance Continued oversight of the Group, as well as taking over from the main Board detailed consideration of the companys health and safety, environmental and risk policies and management.
Rachel is a past Deputy Governor of the Bank of England, and has been Permanent Secretary at both the Department of Work and Pensions and the Department for Transport.
She is currently Chairman of the Conduct & Values Committee of HSBC.
Tamara Ingram is currently an executive vice president of WPP and that left Adjusted pre-tax profits at 254m, last year rotated after nine years from being 6% lower than 2012.
Particularly gratifying was a non-executive director of the Sage Group.
the progress achieved in the Americas, where She will join both the Remuneration and in 2012 we had experienced the toughest Corporate Responsibility Committees.
trading conditions, with new contract awards being constrained by the inability to agree a In conclusion I would like to say thank you US Federal Budget.
Despite this uncertainty on behalf of the Board to all those of our continuing during 2013, we won new contracts management and staff who have worked so with the United States Department of Health hard over the last 12 months, both to deliver and Human Services Centers for Medicare our promises on our contracts and to address & Medicaid Services to provide processing the challenges that have faced us.
It is very support for new health benefit exchanges, worth hard maintaining ones energy and commitment potentially US$1.25bn, and with the Virginia working for a company that is in the news for Department of Transportation to manage the worst of reasons: the determined response traffic in the state of Virginia, worth US$355m.
of our people over this period stands testament In Canada, we were successful in the rebid to the strong foundations of Serco and gives of our contract to provide driver examination confidence in our ability to realise our full services in the state of Ontario for a further potential.
This confidence supports the Boards ten years, worth C$500m.
decision to maintain the final dividend payment, resulting in a total dividend for the year of Furthermore, we celebrated Sercos 25 years 10.55p, an increase of 4.5%.
as a listed company, with our staff undertaking phenomenal challenges to raise more than Alastair Lyons CBE 400,000 for charities all around the world.
Chairman I am delighted to welcome three new nonexecutive directors to our Board.
They add to our diversity of thought and experience, as we consider how best to take the business forward.
Mike Clasper has a strong reputation as both executive and non-executive.
Latterly in his executive career he was CEO of BAA, whilst as a non-executive he was Chairman of HMRC and is senior independent director at ITV and Chairman of Coats.
He will join the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Nomination Committees.
Rachel Lomax will join the Audit Committee and will become the Chair of the newly formed Corporate Responsibility Committee.
This committee will have We were awarded the contract at Mt Eden prison in New Zealand because of our achievements at the prisons we run in the UK and Australia.
