04 Chairmans statement We continue to set ourselves high standards in everything we do and the continuous improvement that we see owes much to the hard work k and commitment of our team at Severn Trent.
Andrew Duff, Chairman Our focus on water and waste water services has Strong performance at Severn Trent Water again delivered benets for our customers and good In this third year of our current 2010-2015 returns for our shareholders.
This year Severn Trent businessplan, I am pleased to report further Water customers saw the first positive impact of progress in the operational performance and some of the extra 150 million of investment in customer service delivered by our regulated ourwater and waste water networks, which we business, Severn Trent Water.
Our customers continue to benefit from high quality In addition, we continue to leverage our skills drinking water as well as the lowest average bills for inwater and waste water services in our water and sewerage combined in England and non-regulated business Severn Trent Services.
Customer service standards improved Thisyear we completed the sale of our analytical yearon year and complaint levels have fallen for services and metering operations in order to focus thelast two years.
on growth in the emerging markets for commercial During the early part of the year when we and industrial users in the UK, in the US and our experienced drought in the Midlands, we carefully global water purication products business.
managed our water resources, so that we avoided the need for a hosepipe ban.
Severn Trent Water is the only company targeting significant leakage reductions over this five year regulatory period andin 2012 13, we cut leakage to a 20 year low, beating our target in the process.
Drought over the early part of the year was followed by extended rainfall during the rest of the year and again, our teams performed well to help protect customers from ooding.
Despite the rainfall, weachieved record levels of compliance at wastewater treatment works and a reduction inpollutionincidents.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05 Overview Chairmans statement The success of Severn Trent Water reects the Customers and shareholders commitment of everyone in our business to continuous improvement and our drive towards have benefited from our higher standards of service, efficiency and operational performance.
Im particularly proud that consistent delivery over the last year was our safest ever.
committed to pushing our safety standards even higher so that everybody remains healthy and safe when they are at work.
We also help to create the skills that we, the Good financial performance economy and our region need.
Severn Trent Water currently has more than 80 apprentices in water, In 2012 13, our financial performance was as waste water and customer service roles.
Total group revenue increased by 3.4% to of young people we attracted for our apprenticeship 1,832 million, whilst underlying group profit before programme has been particularly high, showing the tax decreased 3.3% to 266.3 million.
This resulted attractions of our training and the prospect of a in adjusted basic earnings per share of 98.9 pence, longterm career in a vital industry.
Our policy during this current five year period to Building for growth in non-regulated markets March 2015 is to increase our dividend each year Severn Trent Services, our main non-regulated by3% more than the retail price index.
The board business, has sharpened the focus of its activities on therefore proposes a final dividend of 45.51 pence, water purication products and operating services, to be paid on 26 July 2013.
This will give a total having disposed of its analytical services and dividend for the year of 75.85 pence, anincrease metering operations.
Its underlying performance in the year was During the year we were pleased to return a further encouraging.
Despite challenging conditions in its 150 million to shareholders, through the special markets, it has won contracts and seen growth in dividend of 63 pence per share in July 2012 and sales of water purication products in emerging wealso announced the investment of an extra markets.
After a period of consolidation, the 150million in our water and waste water network continuing businesses of Severn Trent Services are for thebenet of our customers.
Thisreects our again making progress.
ability to create value from the business plan approved by our regulator to thebenet of both Shaping the future of our industry customers and shareholders.
The last 12 months have seen much discussion Customers and shareholders have benefited from about the direction of regulation in the water our consistent delivery over recent years.
Severn Trent continues to play a leading start of the current cycle on 1 April 2010, Severn role in shaping the course of regulation and intends Trents total shareholder return including the special to continue to do so.
As a progressive business, we distribution has been 71.71%, well ahead of the have advocated changes which will help the country 25.57% return from the FTSE 100 and the 61.4% make the best use of its water resources, improve achieved by the utilities sector as a whole.
outcomes for customers and provide suitable returns for investors.
Supporting our local economies Were therefore supportive of the proposed direction On other important matters, were very mindful of of travel for regulation and of the Water Bill, as it the economic, environmental and social benets we passes through Parliament.
In particular, were bring to the region in which we operate.
Where we positive about the prospects for water trading and can, we aim to make a positive difference.
the opportunities it brings for greater resilience and In Severn Trent Water, we directly employ over keeping customers costs down.
5,500people and many more through our contract partners and supply chains.
With the UK economy struggling to grow, investment by water companies has a particularly significant role.
Investing in infrastructure is one of the fastest ways to boost economic activity and water companies use private capital, rather than drawing on public funds which could be usefully employed elsewhere.
During the year, we invested 555 million into our network, making asubstantial contribution to jobs and the localeconomy.
06 Overview Chairmans statement The coming year will see the submission of our Summary nalbusiness plans for the next regulatory period In summary, good performance continues 2015-2020, following an extensive period of tounderpin confidence that we can create consultation with customers, stakeholders and valuethrough the remainder of the current regulators.
I would like to recognise the role of the regulatory period.
independent Water Forum, chaired by Dame Yve We have delivered further improvements in Buckland, in providing a healthy challenge around operational performance and customer service our plans as they have come together.
In Severn Trent Services As a responsible company, our aim is to produce wereturned to underlying growth.
We met our agood plan, based on meaningful consultation, financial expectations and generated good whichnds the right balance between making returnsfor our shareholders.
improvements where customers value them the This years results owe a great deal to the most, keeping bills affordable and providing a fair commitment, excellence and hard work of return to our investors.
We continue to set ourselves high Faced with competing pressures to maintain standardsin everything we do and I would like investment and drive up standards, whilst keeping tothank management and staff for putting us bills low, it is essential that our sector has continued inastrong position for future success.
access to future nancing and at a reasonable cost.
Finally, I would like to use this opportunity to At Severn Trent, we believe that a sustainable notemythanks to our Chief Executive, Tony Wray, longterm approach to nancing should be whohas informed the board of his intention to retire takenbythe industry and that regulation must from Severn Trent in Spring 2014. therefore attract and incentivise equity finance.
With a strong executive team in place the timing Excessive reliance on leverage characterises much ofhis decision provides us with the continuity of ofour sector today.
leadership and the necessary time to search for andidentify his successor over the coming months.
