Chairmans review I am proud to be the Chairman of a 1 company witha $28 billion market capitalization that focuses ondeveloping and marketing innovative specialty medicines for patients.
If you look at the track record of Shire over the past 25 years you will see a theme of change as the Company has adapted to anticipate and meet patient needs and maximize growth opportunities.
From acquiring new businesses, to expanding overseas, from developing new treatments, to reorganizing our Company change has always been part of Shire, and 2013 was a standout year in this respect.
But at the core of all this change is an enduring commitment to meet the needs of patients with a range of specialized conditions.
Thishas always been at Shires heart andwe are determined to continue makingthe most of this strength for allourstakeholders.
Changing for the better For us, 2013 was a year of further success.
Our new Chief Executive Dr. Flemming Ornskov led a major reorganization, re-focusing our Company on our core strengths and on where we need to be tocontinue to grow and succeed in the future.
Flemming has a rare combination of science, medical, business and commercial acumen and his impact on Shire has been 2013 highlights We grew significantly, both organicallyand through a numberoftargeted acquisitions We strengthened our enduring focusonspecialty medicines for patients We created a simpler, more streamlinedand effective organization One Shire We brought in new talent and developedexisting talent 1 Correct at February 24, 2014 04 SHIRE PLC WWW.
COM Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report immediate and significant.
We have reset Expanding internationally Id like to thank all Shire employees for Shire to create a simpler, more streamlined We continue to focus on expanding our theirimmense efforts and unwavering and effective organization One Shire international presence.
We have developed commitment to meeting the needs of entirely focused on developing and a robust international strategy through the ourpatients and creating value for our marketing innovative specialty medicines commercialization of our Rare Diseases shareholders during another to meet significant unmet patient needs.
treatments which are now sold in over successfulyear.
Making big changes quickly is inevitably 50 countries in addition to the continued After more than ten years at Shire, at the challenging, but the ones we have made launch of ELVANSE in Europe.
We have Annual General Meeting on April 29, 2014, through 2013 are making our Company succeeded in scaling up steadily while Iwill hand over the Chairmanship to Susan stronger and better positioned to drive building valuable understanding along Kilsby.
Having worked with Susan on the anew era of growth ahead as a result.
theway of how to gain approval and Board for a number of years I believe she is market the same products in many We face the future fit and lean, more the ideal Chairman for the Company going different countries.
We continue to focused and flexible and we remain as forward: she has excellent commercial expand, particularly into Asia.
In 2013, motivated as ever to make the most of a experience and will be a great new leader weannounced the establishment of a world where medical science is getting for the next era of Shires growth.
I have subsidiary office in Japan, the second more sophisticated, treatments are thoroughly enjoyed my time with Shire as largest pharmaceutical market in the becoming more specialized and betterithas developed and grown and I am world.
We also established a presence informed patients are demanding access confident that its track record of success inChina and in South Korea.
to new and better treatments.
Doing the right things Continuing to specialize I am pleased with the composition of Specializing has served us well over the ourBoard.
We have a good multi-national years, particularly so in a pharmaceuticals mix of skills and experience drawn from industry which is not only more competitive different areas including the worlds of but also more geared towards highly pharmaceuticals, science, finance and Matthew Emmens differentiated and effective treatments, and banking.
The atmosphere is open, Chairman often very niche scientific developments.
Going forward, Shire will continue to look Together, we focus on ensuring that Shire for specialist areas where there is high does the right things and does things right unmet medical need.
Identifying and developing assets We welcomed Dominic Blakemore to One of our greatest strengths has been theBoard of Directors on January 1, 2014. our ability to identify assets that address Dominic is a non-executive Director and very specific patient needs, and to develop member of the Audit, Compliance & and bring these assets to market.
He brings a wealth products and product candidates are ofexperience and fresh perspective typically either already approved and totheBoard.
marketed or we assess them as having ahigh probability of being approved.
Making the most of specialty Ourskill is finding those assets to deliver Looking ahead, we see even more growth and knowing how to maximize growthpotential in and around focusing theircommercial potential.
With ever more finely-focused scientific developments Over the years, we have established and highly-targeted therapies for rare ourselves as an active dealmaker.
Our diseases, we aim to find new opportunities most recent acquisition, of ViroPharma, to lead the way in our core space.
Inc. ViroPharma, is an excellent strategic fit and we are confident in our ability to Specialized, high-value, targeted medicine maximize value for shareholders and, of is the future for Shire we will continue to course, for patients.
The acquisition is develop and market innovative treatments expected to enhance Shires revenue and, for distinct patient populations with earnings growth profile going forward.
specialized and often quite rare conditions around the world.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 05
