CHAIRMANS STATEMENT LESLIE VAN fide WALLE CHAIRMAN A YEAR OF DISTINCT HALVES INTRODUCTION HIGHLIGHTS The first half of 2013 was affected by the extended winter weather across e Post-tax ROCE up 20bps to 8.8% Europe, which exacerbated already weak market conditions, resulting in a like for like sales decline of 3.1% for the Group.
However, trading improved significantly as the year progressed and SIG delivered a strong e Underlying PBT up 5.3% to 88.1m performance in H2 with like for like sales up by 2.2%.
For the year as a whole like for like sales decreased marginally, by 0.4%, e Dividend increased by 18.3% but revenues in Sterling were up by 4.4% having benefited from favourable exchange rates and acquisitions.
Having continued to tightly control our e Moving into the next stage of underlying cost base, underlying profit before tax at 88.1m increased by 5.3% compared to prior year 83.7m.
SIGs development With non-underlying charges before tax totalling 86.0m 2012: 40.0m, the Group recorded a total profit before tax of 2.1m 2012: 43.7m.
Statutory e Working more closely together as a group loss after tax was 14.3m 2012: profit of 26.6m.
At 121.2m, following 16.4m of acquisition expenditure, SIG continued to keep net debt well e New Group HR Director appointed within its target range for leverage net debt underlying EBITDA, of 1.0x1.5x.
The Group continued to increase its post-tax Return on Capital Employed ROCE, its key financial metric, by 20bps to 8.8%, and remains focused on its medium-term target of achieving ROCE 300bps greater than its weighted average cost of capital by 2015.
STRATEGY Following his appointment as Chief Executive, Stuart Mitchell conducted a review of the Groups strategy, concluding that, although there are some areas for improvement, the Group is generally heading in the right direction and is in the right products and markets.
One area that does require attention, however, is the way in which SIG works, as historically its businesses have tended to operate independently of each other.
This has meant we have not been fully leveraging the Groups significant scale or presence in the marketplace.
We now need to move onto the next stage of our development and take a more holistic view of the Group.
We recognise that this will require significant cultural change and will take time.
To help make this happen the Group has appointed a new HR Director, Linda Kennedy, who is an expert in change and talent management.
Of course there is a balance to be had, so as well as maximising Group synergies we also need to retain our strong customer focus and local relationships, ensuring that managers retain full accountability of their branches.
Stuart has outlined four strategic initiatives to improve business performance from which SIG is targeting a net annual benefit of c. 30m by 2016.
These are all based around the common theme of working together more closely as a group in the areas of procurement, commercial vehicles, branch network and eCommerce.
SIG plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts Corporate governance p. 50 Board of Directors p. 51 A YEAR OF DISTINCT HALVES BOARD OUTLOOK Stuart Mitchell was appointed as Chief Executive with effect from 1 March 2013 During 2014 we expect construction activity in the UK residential market to Stuart joined SIG on 1 December 2012 as Chief Executive Designate.
remain buoyant, with the non-residential sector continuing to be subdued.
In Mainland Europe construction markets are anticipated to remain variable.
Further information on the Board of Directors can be found on page 51.
The trading outlook, operational efficiency savings and an expected modest I wish to take the opportunity to pass on my thanks to colleagues on the Board net benefit from its strategic initiatives give the Group confidence in who have again made invaluable contributions during the year under review.
achieving good progress this year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board provides strong leadership to the Company and engages well with both management and stakeholders.
SIG is committed to business LESLIE VAN fide WALLE integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all of its activities.
At SIG, Chairman we believe that good governance comes from an effective Board and the 12 March 2014 Board supports the highest standards in corporate governance.
The Board has in place a diversity policy and has set out its aim of achieving at least BOARD GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 25% female representation among the Boards membership by 2015.
CHAIRMAN The Board considers that throughout the year under review the Company has complied with the governance rules and best practice provisions applying Key objectives: the leadership, operation and governance of the Board, to UK listed companies.
Shareholders will also note that the Directors ensuring effectiveness, and setting the agenda for the Board.
Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 79 complies with the new Department for Business, Innovation and Skills regulations.
THE BOARD As Chairman, I take responsibility for ensuring that good corporate governance is operated at SIG in order that we can maintain the highest Key objectives: the overall conduct of the Groups business standards to which we continually aspire.
Details of this and how corporate and setting the Groups strategy.
governance is operating in SIG can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 50 to 59.
AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS EMPLOYEES COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: On behalf of the Board and Shareholders I would like to thank our to ensure high to determine the the nomination of employees for their continued commitment and hard work during the year.
standards of remuneration policy suitable candidates corporate and for the Executive to fill Executive and DIVIDENDS regulatory reporting Directors and other Non-Executive controls, risk Senior Management, vacancies on The Board has proposed a final dividend of 2.4p per ordinary share.
Taken management and renew remuneration the Board.
together with the interim dividend of 1.15p per ordinary share, this provides compliance.
packages, Executive a total dividend of 3.55p per ordinary share for the year.
The final dividend Directors service is expected to be paid on 30 May 2014 to Shareholders on the register at contracts and review close of business on 2 May 2014.
The ex-dividend date is 30 April 2014. remuneration trends Going forward the Board is committed to a progressive dividend policy across the Group.
while maintaining a dividend cover of 2x3x on an underlying basis over the medium-term.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07
