Directors report | Business review | Chairmans Statement 8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT contains considerable detail about This years results exceeded our the Companys response.
The board remains committed to the highest ethical expectations revenue increased by standards, not just at Primark but across 9%, adjusted operating profit was ahead all of the groups businesses.
Corporate responsibility by 10% and adjusted earnings per share Our principal value to society lies in what were up 13% on last year.
we do every day: providing people with access to good quality, affordable food and clothing.
If the rapidly growing global population is to be fed, it will be fed by companies like Associated British Foods, working in developed and emerging economies to encourage reliable and efficient supply.
There is a close alignment between our moral obligation and good business practice.
We have a modern and efficient food supply chain and we are constantly improving our productivity, investing in new assets, In reporting on last years fine European operations and we are reducing waste and making more from performance I concluded my confident of our ability to succeed in this less.
Of course we must do this for each statement with the expectation that new environment.
succeeding generation, so our actions the group would make some further Capital expenditure was lower again this must look to the longer term and must progress this year.
Investment included the completion be sustainable.
We consistently invest in exceeded those expectations with of the new yeast plant in Mexico and the our cost base and our distribution reach.
very good growth: revenue increased South African warehouse and Tanzanian We use technology to improve by 9%, adjusted operating profit was distillery for Illovo, and further expenditure productivity and to assure sources of ahead by 10% and adjusted earnings on our programme to reduce the cost supply but we must also use it to inform per share were up 13% on last year.
base at Allied Bakeries with new bread us of the impact of our actions on the This operating performance resulted plants at three of our UK bakeries.
We label our products in a strong cash flow and a healthy continued to pursue the big retail expansion properly and market them appropriately reduction in the groups net debt.
opportunity in Primark, especially in to customers and we constantly strive Primark had an outstanding year, continental Europe, and we expect to improve food safety.
Our annual report increasing profit by 44% and adding this to increase in the comingyear.
includes examples of the application of a further 800,000 sq ft, or 10%, to its our corporate responsibility philosophy, Cash flow was strong with higher profit already substantial estate.
Grocery margins and much more detail is provided in our and a lower level of capital investment improved with a recovery in both the latest Corporate Responsibility Report more than offsetting a working capital baking and meat businesses of George which has been fully refreshed since first outflow and higher taxes paid.
We are Weston Foods in Australia.
The momentum publication in 2010 and is available for a substantial tax payer, and of the 252m of recent years in AB Agri continued and download from ourwebsite.
of corporation tax paid by the group underlying trading in Ingredients achieved during the year, more than half was paid Diversity some stabilisation.
AB Sugar performed in the UK.
Net debt at the year end had Our businesses around the world are well, delivering a result which, although reduced to 804m.
largely staffed and managed by local below last years high level, was in line teams and our workforce is consequently with our expectations.
Primark has continued to make significant ethnically rich and diverse.
We understand progress with its ethical trade programme.
The decline in AB Sugars profit in 2013 the importance of harnessing and We take this programme extremely was the result of lower European nurturing talent, yet it is clear that women seriously and have built a team of some production and higher beet costs for are not as well represented at senior 40 in-country ethical trading specialists, British Sugar.
In June this year, the levels within our organisation as they of whom eight are located in Bangladesh.
European Council of Ministers confirmed could be.
This is a missed opportunity The tragic events in April caused by the that EU sugar quotas for domestic that we have begun to address.
There is collapse of the Rana Plaza building near production would end in 2017 and the no common solution and this is reflected Dhaka, Bangladesh, were deeply market has already started to react.
in our approach to gender diversity saddening.
Our response to these events Pricing for the 2014 financial year is lower where we have piloted initiatives that can was based on our determination to as a consequence of the greater availability be copied, applied and adapted to local alleviate hardship arising from this of sugar globally and an increase in business conditions.
While gender is a disaster as quickly as possible.
We have worked for a good place to start in tackling diversity, able to achieve this as a result of the number of years to lower the cost base it is important that we work, not only to experience and capability of our and improve the efficiency of our increase diversity in all its forms, but to in-country team.
The operating review Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Chairmans Statement 9 ensure that it becomes part of our executives are properly rewarded for the the group increased during the year to everyday businessactivity.
work that they do and the responsibilities 113,000 and, at a time of continuing theybear.
unemployment in many of the markets Remuneration in which we operate, and despite the Our remuneration policy aims to reward Shareholders will note that the directors continued drive for efficiency within employees for the performance of those remuneration report addresses the new our businesses, we are proud to have parts of the business for which they are reporting regime, albeit that we are not provided employment to 7,000 more accountable and which they can directly yet required to meet these standards people this year.
Management incentives until next year.
are designed to encourage the right Dividends The board decisions being taken in the interests of I am pleased to report that a final dividend The board has had the great benefit of the long-term health of the business.
We of 22.65p is proposed, to be paid on a stable group of independent directors seek to reward competitively for good 10 January 2014 to shareholders on the since 2007.
The Senior Independent performance but comparison with market register on 6 December 2013.
Together Director, Tim Clarke, was appointed data is just one of the factors taken into with the interim dividend of 9.35p paid in 2004 and has therefore served as a account when determining remuneration.
on 5 July 2013, this will make a total of director for nine years.
The UK Corporate Close attention is also paid to the nature 32.0p for the year, an increase of 12%.
Governance Code requires that Tims and degree of autonomy of each role independence is confirmed by the rest Outlook because management appreciate being of the board, if he is to continue as an We expect a further reduction in given the freedom to act which encourages independent director.
This they have profit from AB Sugar next year as EU creativity, fosters a spirit of enterprise done and we are delighted that Tim sugar prices fall and the market rapidly and ensures decisions are taken as close has agreed to continue his distinguished adjusts ahead of regime reform in 2017. to our customers as possible.
It is this service to the group.
Primarks continued expansion together combination of proper pay and job with revenue growth and margin structure which enables us to attract The three other independent directors improvement in Grocery are expected and retain the calibre of management were appointed in 2006 and 2007 and to deliver further increases in profit in that has delivered theseresults.
will complete nine years on the board those businesses.
Such a significant loss Targets for long-term and short-term borrowings and the retirement of more of experience in so short a period is to incentive arrangements are reviewed expensive long-term financing this year be avoided and, accordingly, we have annually by the Remuneration committee, will lead to a reduced interest charge.
decided to make an earlier appointment, having regard to internal and external As a result, and at this early stage, we expanding the board by one when the factors and the relationship between continue to expect adjusted earnings per search that is currently under way has the level of payments made and the share for the coming year to be similar been completed.
It is expected that, in performance of the group over a number to2013.
due course, the board will revert to its of years.
Our executives understand that current size.
Charles Sinclair they are well remunerated and that this Chairman not only reflects the marketplace but also Employees takes into account the performance and I would like to thank all our employees growth of the group, the degree of for the contribution they have made to expertise required to fulfil the role and the groups success in the past year.
The the level of individual experience.
Our average number of people employed by Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10 SUGAR Nothing goes to waste in a sugar factory As one of the worlds leading low-cost producers, AB Sugar has an unwavering focus on continuous improvement and operational excellence.
Best practice in agronomy and sugar production is shared across the group with the lessons learned by our more mature operations passed on to those at an earlier stage of development.
This accelerates efficiency improvement and enables the business to make the most of every stick of cane and root of beet.
At the heart of the business philosophy is the need to eliminate waste and to generate real value from our range of co-products: cane trash is burned as fuel: stones removed during beet cleaning are used in civil engineering: soil is graded, conditioned and sold as topsoil: lime used in the purification process is sold for soil conditioning: residual vegetable matter, once the sugar has been extracted, is used as animal feed: combined heat and power plants export surplus energy, generated through the conversion process, to the grid: hot water and CO2 is used to propagate tomatoes: and betaine is produced which is a valuable animal feed supplement.
Go to page 22 for more information 11 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12 AGRICULTURE Our expertise stretches across the landscape AB Agri operates at the heart of the agricultural industry and its unique breadth and experience enables it to add value and drive profit for businesses along the food, drink and biofuel industry supply chains.
Its activities extend from sophisticated research and the highest technical innovation of products, to the provision of compound animal feed, starter feeds and premixes, and include specialist design and delivery of bespoke agricultural supply chain solutions.
Through its joint venture, Frontier, it is also the UKs leading crop inputs and grain marketing organisation.
Go to page 25 for more information Crop production Feed manufacturing Grain farmers Technical feed ingredients Premixes and starter feeds The UKs largest crop inputs, Sustained investment in R&D Manufacturers of highagronomy advice and grain stimulates the development of new quality bespoke vitamin marketing business, including highly technical and innovative mineral premixes and independent on-farm GPS - products such as micro-ingredients micro-ingredients supplied guided precision arable for animal feeds: including enzymes, with world-class nutrition services.
yeasts, betaine, buffers and binders.
FROM FARM Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Livestock production Supply chain solutions Expert nutrition advice and analytical services Animal feeds Creating value through the Throughout AB Agris operations Leading manufacturers and implementation of traceability the business propositions are marketeers of compound feeds, programmes across supply chains underpinned by the provision of blends, straights and alternative with a range of flexible models that world-leading nutrition expertise feeds selling direct to farmers, enable quantitative measurement, and analytical services from a merchants, blenders, compounders continuous improvement and dedicated team of highly and processors across all species.
TO FORK Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 15 RETAIL Amazing fashion, Amazing prices Primark is a dynamic and exciting retail proposition offering up-to-the-minute fashion at amazing prices.
This unique product offering, together with an extensive store opening programme, has established Primark as the go-to fashion destination in some of the most sought after retail locations across Europe including London, Madrid, Berlin, Dublin and Lisbon.
Primark stores combine energy, excitement and style to create a second-to-none shopping experience.
Take a stroll around one of Primarks flagship stores and see for yourself!
Bright, trend-focused feature walls, mannequins pulling together key looks and LED screens all showcase the latest product campaigns and fashion stories.
The constant flow of bulging carrier bags leaving the stores is a testament to Primarks mass appeal.
The combination of amazing fashion at amazing prices sold in a contemporary and exciting store environment are the key elements that make the Primark proposition unique.
Go to page 27 for more information Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16 GROCERY 00 Everyday products for people everywhere A well-managed food brand is far more than just a label.
It is an indication of quality and a guarantee of consistency that reflects the values of the consumer.
Good brands are built using insight and understanding of customers tastes and cultures to create a bond of trust, often over many years, if not generations.
Associated British Foods, through its global businesses, is the owner of an enviable portfolio of leading food brands that reflect the wonderful tastes of food from a diversity of cultures around theworld.
Go to page 30 for more information Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 00 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 18 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 INGREDIENTS Innovation, technology, experience and worldwide expertise The baking of bread in one form or another has been undertaken across the planet for thousands of years yet we are still searching for ways to improve its taste, texture and shelf life in response to changing lifestyles and a variety of cultural and regional demands.
Our technology extends beyond flour, fats and yeast into the use of dough improvers, conditioners and enzymes, and we provide innovative solutions across the bakery spectrum from major plant bakeries to local artisans.
Although yeast and bakery ingredients were the foundation of our Ingredients division, our businesses now reach into the worlds of brewing, wine making, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals, with expertise in yeast extracts, lipids, esters and speciality proteins.
Go to page 34 for more information
