GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT 5 Chairmans statement investment in organic growth, and maintenance of a Dear Shareholder, progressive dividend.
It also gives us headroom to make In 2013, Smith & Nephew generated good underlying revenue further acquisitions and includes a commitment to return any and trading pro t growth.
It is underpinned by a desire We continued to focus investment on growth opportunities tomaintain a strong balance sheet to ensure solid investment and returned signi cant value to Shareholders through grade credit metrics.
increased dividends and a share buy-back programme.
Following these principles, we spent $226 million on a share Momentum increased throughout the year as we delivered buy-back programme during the year.
This, together with the onour strategy to reshape Smith & Nephew for the future.
2012 dividend increase, resulted in a total distribution to Our revenue was $4,351 million, up 4% on an underlying Shareholders in 2013 of $465 million, two and a half times the basis.
Advanced Wound Management delivered strong level ofthe prior year.
growth, led by Healthpoint Biotherapeutics, our major 2012 The Board is pleased to propose a final dividend for the year of acquisition.
Sports Medicine Joint Repair hadanother 17.0 per share, giving a total dividend for 2013 of27.4, up 5% successful year, and we improved our performance in year-on-year.
Almost 13% of our revenues now come from emerging market Board changes countries, up from just over 8% in 2010.
We were one of I will step down as Chairman of Smith & Nephew at the Annual the first companies in our sector to focus on these markets.
Roberto Quarta joined the We are building sustainable businesses through the strategy Board as Non-executive Director inDecember 2013 and will of establishing direct relationships with customers, aswell as take over as Chairman.
Roberto has impressive business and developing tailored products.
In 2013, we invested further board experience and is chairman of IMI plc, a FTSE 100 listed inour existing teams and made acquisitions in Brazil, engineering business and of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Europe, Indiaand Turkey to strengthen our platform.
Our trading pro t was up 5% on an underlying basis at Our Senior Independent Non-executive Director, Richard $987million.
The trading pro t margin of 22.7% met DeShutter, and Non-executive Director Ajay Piramal, will also ourexpectations as we invested more in the emerging both retire at the Annual General Meeting.
I would like to thank markets and in research & development, and cost of the them for their service.
In particular, Richards contribution USmedical device excise tax $24 million in 2013. inthis most importantrole has been invaluable.
We are fortunate to have as replacement the highly experienced Ethics, compliance & governance BrianLarcombe, who willbecome Senior Independent We give high priority to compliance and ethics, as well as Non-executive Director.
health, safety and the environment.
The Board continues In 2013, we welcomed to the Board Julie Brown as Chief toencourage management in their drive to ensure all of Financial Of cer and Michael Friedman as Non-executive Smith& Nephews programmes are world-class.
Julie has quickly established herself as an effective The Board also places great emphasis on governance and is Executive Director and her in uence is already seen in many mindful of its responsibility to promote the long-term interests areas, including the Capital Allocation Framework.
Michaels of the Company for all our stakeholders.
This is described in expertise in the US healthcare system and experience detail in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual leadinga major research and treatment institution has Report pages 44 85. enhanced the Board.
Creating sustainable value Setting Smith & Nephew apart Smith & Nephew has a long track record of creating value for During 2013, I was reminded of the quality of our people as Shareholders.
For instance, we have paid a dividend every wereviewed our responses to natural disasters, providing year since 1937.
Since 2006, during my tenure as Chairman, resources to aid recovery in the Philippines and in our own itis pleasing to report that we have delivered a compound of ces and communities, under Olivier Bohuons leadership, annual growth rate in adjusted earnings per share of 8% responding to a major ood at theAdvanced Wound against a FTSE 100 average of 6%, along with a dividend Management site in Hull, UK and to a tornado near our facility compound growth rate of 14%.
And the share price is up more in Oklahoma City, US.
The tenacity and compassion sets than 90% in that time.
The Group generated trading cash ow Smith& Nephew apart, as it has throughout our history of of $5.9 billion between 1 January 2006 and 31 December supporting healthcare professionals for more than 150 years.
2013, demonstrating our vitality over the long-term.
It has indeed been a privilege working with the people at In 2013, we set out a Capital Allocation Framework that Smith & Nephew and to serve the interests of customers, willgovern how we prioritise the use of the strong cash ow employees and Shareholders.
The Company has shown we generate.
This framework will guide our continued greatresilience in the recent economic environment, building services for customers and value for Shareholders.
There is anexcellent team in place, both Executive and Non-executive.
I wish the Company well for a promising future.
Yours sincerely, Sir John Buchanan Chairman
