Strategic Report Chairmans Statement As expected, our financial performance in 2013 reflected theongoing impact ofthe loss ofexclusivity for several key brands, with revenue down 6% to$25,711 million.
Good governance explaining our business model and goes Dear shareholder As your Directors review our strategy and onto describe how each element helps One of the key responsibilities carry out their other duties, it is my role deliver our strategic goals.
The Strategic ofa board of directors is to set as Chairman to lead the Board effectively.
Report is introduced in more detail a companys strategy.
As the Tomy mind, good governance is at the on page1.
So that you can easily see CEO outlines in his Review on This year, the Annual Report also includes how we are governed, we have provided arevised Directors Remuneration Report the following pages, and as we acorporate governance overview on page from page 102, which is introduced by the seek to demonstrate throughout 26 of this Annual Report.
We also briefly Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, describe how our governance structure this Annual Report, your Board John Varley.
A separate Audit Committee supports the delivery of our business has chosen a very clear strategic Report is introduced by the Chairman of strategy.
You can find more detail in my theAudit Committee, Rudy Markham.
It is rooted in our fullCorporate Governance Report from heritage as a company focused All the changes we have made are also page 88.
On page 24, we have also intended to reflect our greater than ever providedan overview of the risks that on innovative science to deliver efforts to make this Annual Report fair, mightprevent us from achieving the full great medicines and sets out our balanced and understandable.
ambition to lead in science and Challenging environment Transparent reporting return to growth.
Any balanced review of AstraZeneca Hand in hand with good governance goes needsto reflect the environment in which transparent reporting and this year we have we operate.
The challenging conditions made a number of other changes in the which Itouched on last year continue.
Annual Report intended to promote this.
Theworld pharmaceutical market is still Some have been caused by changes in UK growing and underlying demographic reporting regulations, others by changes to trends remain favourable to long-term the Corporate Governance Code and some industry growth.
However, many of the by ever-evolving reporting best practice.
drivers of demand and supply in the Significant changes include the introduction industry are under pressure.
of a Strategic Report, which starts by 6 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information On the demand side, we face increased Core EPS for 2013 were $5.05, down Outlook competition from generic drugs as some 23% on 2012.
This decline was greater As we look to the future, we expect a of the worlds most successful medicines than the decline in revenue primarily low-to-mid single digit percentage decline come off patent.
In addition, securing due to our investment in our keygrowth in revenue at CER for 2014.
In percentage recognition through reimbursement platforms and strengthened pipeline.
terms, Core EPS for 2014 is expected to approval and reward for innovation Reported EPS for the year was down decline in the teens at CER.
Following the through favourable pricing and sales 55% to $2.04.
The impairment of Bydureon acquisition of BMSs 50% interest in our isbecoming more difficult in the face of in the fourth quarter reduced Reported joint diabetes business, and as the diabetes intense pricing pressures, particularly EPS by $1.10, resulting in a Reported loss businesss pipeline of new products is inEstablished Markets facing rising per share for the quarter of $0.42.
progressively launched, we expect 2017 healthcarecosts.
On the supply side, the revenues will be broadly in line with 2013 A responsible company industry faces an ongoing R&D productivity revenues.
This expectation involves a I firmly believe that our commitment to challenge.
R&D costs have risen significantly number of assumptions, including, among good financial performance needs to be over the past decade, while industry-wide other things, Nexium US generic launch matched by a continued focus on being probability of success of new medicines, in May 2014. aresponsible company, by working with though showing some recent signs of integrity and delivering sustainable business Appreciation improvement, has not kept pace.
I therefore fully support the Before closing, and on behalf of the Loss of exclusivity decision we have made to focus our Board, I want to thank the employees Loss of exclusivity has had, and continues responsible business activities on access ofAstraZeneca whose efforts helped to have, a significant impact on AstraZeneca.
tohealthcare, diversity and reducing our us achieve so much in 2013 as we lay In 2013, loss of exclusivity on brands such environmental impact.
It is where I believe the foundations for leading in science as Arimidex, Atacand, Crestor, Nexium we are able to implement standards that and returning to growth.
In particular, andSeroquel IR in a number of markets will accelerate our business strategy and I want toexpress my appreciation to accounted for a revenue decline of some deliver wider benefits to society.
Pascal andall the members of the SET $2.2 billion.
Over the coming years, this for the leadership they haveshown It is also gratifying to see our current efforts trend will continue as medicines such as and the inspiration they have provided recognised by again being listed in the Dow Crestor, Nexium and Seroquel XR continue to the organisation.
Jones Sustainability World Index in 2013, to lose exclusivity in markets such as the with a record-equalling score, and retaining Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow US and Europe.
our listing on the European Index for the Directors for the contribution they have Of course, loss of exclusivity is a normal sixth year running.
made to our discussions throughout a part of an innovative medicines life-cycle.
We look forward to welcoming Return to shareholders Itcomes at the end of the period when a as many of you as possible to our Annual Consistent with our progressive dividend new medicine is safeguarded from being General Meeting in April.
policy to maintain or grow the dividend copied so that we can generate returns each year, the Board has recommended on the investment we have made, both to a second interim dividend of $1.90.
This reinvest in the business and provide an brings the dividend for the full year to appropriate return to you, our owners.
A $2.80 176.0 pence, SEK 18.33. well-functioning intellectual property system of this type, which rewards innovation, is The Board regularly reviews our distribution Leif Johansson the principal economic safeguard in our policy and overall financial strategy to Chairman industry.
It underpins our business model, continue to strike a balance between the which we explore in more detail in the interests of the business, our financial Business model section from page 10. creditors and our shareholders.
Having regard for business investment, funding the Our performance in 2013 progressive dividend policy and meeting As expected, our financial performance in our debt service obligations, we currently 2013 reflected the ongoing impact of the believe it is appropriate to continue the loss of exclusivity for several key brands, suspension of the share repurchase with revenue down 6% to $25,711 million programme which was announced in 2012: $27,973 million.
We continue to target a profitfell by 22% to $8,390 million 2012: strong, investment grade credit rating.
The decline in revenue was, in part, offset by our key growth platforms: Brilinta, our diabetes franchise, respiratory, Emerging Markets and Japan, which delivered an incremental $1.2 billion of revenue in 2013.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 7
