Chairmans and Chief Executives Review We are pleased with the performance of the business in 2013 despite unpredictable trading conditions.
During 2014, we will continue to invest in our key growth programmes, new product pipeline and R&D.
Results overview John OHiggins John Hughes Trading and macro-economic conditions were unpredictable Chief Executive Chairman throughout the year, but we are pleased with the overall performance of the business.
The trading conditions experienced in the second half of the year were encouraging.
Operating margins remained robust, thanks largely to a stable pricing environment and our ability to manage our discretionary cost base.
Despite challenging markets, we maintained our key growth programmes, including an accelerated R&D budget to position our Materials Analysis businesses for growth in the pharmaceutical and material science sectors, and the continuing international expansion of the Omega Engineering business.
We maintained our strategic focus across the Group, including strengthening our presence in developing high growth regions of the world and launching new products and applications across the portfolio.
Acquisition activity was less than usual with three bolt-on acquisitions completed, including two within the Materials Analysis segment.
Reported sales grew by 2% to 1,197.8 million 2012: 1,177.2million with equal contributions, of just under 1% each, coming from acquisitions and foreign currency exchange movements.
As a result, on a constant currency organic basis like-for-like, sales for 2013 were broadly flat.
On a reported basis, adjusted operating profit declined by 1% to 214.7 million 2012: 216.9 million and like-for-like operating profit decreased by 3%.
Operating margins declined by 0.5 percentage points to 17.9%, principally as a consequence of adverse product mix.
Interest charges were down in the year due to reduced debt levels, with the net result that profit before tax increased by 1% from 204.3 million to 205.6million.
Regionally, sales to Europe grew 2% on a like-for-like basis, Asia Pacific increased 1% while North America declined 3%, mainly due to deferral of orders and a general lack of investments in academic research.
Sales in the rest of the world grew by 4% with good trading activity recorded in South America and Africa.
We exited the year with a strong performance in Asia Pacific and saw tentative signs of improvement in North America with fourth quarter sales up by 2%.
Sales of aftermarket service and consumables grew by 7% on a like-for-like basis, and increased as a percentage of total revenue from 23% to 25%.
More detail on the contribution made by each of the strategic segments can be found in the Operating Review on pages 28 to 35.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Financial position and dividend Eoghan OLionaird joined us on 3 February 2014 and will assume Operating cash flow was solid with 86% of our operating profit Jim Websters responsibilities for the Materials Analysis and Test being converted into cash and this, combined with the post-tax and Measurement segments.
During the second quarter of 2014, proceeds received on the sale of our Fusion UV business, resulted in at a date to be confirmed, JoHallas will join the Executive team net debt being reduced by 150.0 million.
At the end of December as Business Group Director for the In-line Instrumentation and 2013, our net debt stood at 104.1 million, just over 0.4 times the Industrial Controls segments.
Both Eoghan and Jo come to Spectris EBITDA of 236.3million.
with a wealth of worldwide management experience within the engineering sector.
The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 28.0 pence per share which, combined with the interim dividend of 14.75 pence per Following Jeremy Morcoms departure earlier in 2013, we welcomed share, gives a total of 42.75 pence per share for the year, an increase Robin Stopford last September to the Executive team, as Head of of 10%.
The dividend is covered 3.1 times.
This is consistent with Corporate Development.
our policy of making progressive dividend payments based upon We thank Jim, Steve and Jeremy for their valuable contributions to affordability and sustainability.
The dividend will be paid on 25 June Spectris.
2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30May 2014.
Spectris values Our values are central to Spectris, guiding our decision-making Strategy and ensuring that we always comply with the highest standards, We have a clearly defined strategy and made good progress wherever we are in the world.
We want to be a company that our against our objectives during the year.
We continued to invest in people are proud to work for, where they feel valued, motivated and new product development, increasing our R&D spend by 6% to capable of reaching their full potential.
We want our employees to 88.1million 4% like-for-like increase over 2012.
Most of this feel empowered to contribute to the growth of our group and we increase was channelled to our Materials Analysis segment with have created a culture of integrity that thrives on high performance.
a 12% like-for-like increase in R&D spend to address the growth We believe that our values are pivotal to our success and growth and opportunities identified 18 months ago.
We are starting to see the this has been demonstrated by the relentless commitment given by benefits of this initiative with new products launched towards the all our employees across the globe during the year.
end of the year and more are scheduled in 2014.
We also launched new products across our other three segments which strengthen our Summary and outlook market positions.
We are pleased with the performance of the business in 2013 despite unpredictable trading conditions.
During 2014, we will continue to Our regional expansion programme in emerging markets continued invest in our key growth programmes, new product pipeline and as we increased our direct presence in a number of emerging R&D.
In addition, as previously highlighted, a return to sustainable markets including Indonesia, the Middle East and Brazil.
We growth will lead to a gradual reversal of the discretionary cost savings established a legal entity in Russia with a new office in Moscow made in 2013.
Overall, our broad geographic and end-market to support our recently-established direct selling operation in the exposures, strong financial position, and on-going investment in region.
On the back of its highly successful launch in China in 2012, the business provide the Board of Spectris with confidence that the our Omega business expanded its presence in a number of other Company is well positioned for 2014 and beyond.
new territories including Korea, Singapore, Brazil and Mexico.
Wealso opened a new office in Japan in January 2014.
Management and Board After 20 years at Spectris, Jim Webster announced his intention to retire from his role as Business Group Director at the end of the first half of 2014.
Additionally, Steve Blair gave notice of his intention to resign from the Company to join e2v technologies as Chief Executive and left the Board on 25 February 2014.
The numbers stated in this report have been restated to exclude the trading results and impact of the disposal of the Fusion UV business which was disposed of on 31 January 2013.
Unless otherwise stated, figures quoted for operating profit, net interest, profit before tax, tax, earnings per share and operating cash flow are adjusted measures for an explanation of adjusted figures and reconciliation to the statutory reported figures see Note 3 to the Financial Statements.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
