04 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Chairmans statement I am pleased to report further good progress in 2013, achieving record sales and profit.
Bill Whiteley Chairman on 15th January 2014.
On behalf of the Performance and dividend Prospects Board and shareholders, I would like to Sales increased by over 4% to 689.4 million We have a robust and resilient business convey our sincere thanks to Mark for 2012: 661.7 million.
Organic sales growth model built around our direct sales his significant contribution in guiding the was 4%, continuing the trend reported in the approach, delivering solutions to meet Company through a challenging economic first half year.
Sales growth was strongest our customers energy saving, process period and meaningfully improving on the in Asia Pacific, followed by Watson-Marlow efficiency and sustainability challenges, Groups record of strong and consistent and EMEA: sales in the Americas were with a high proportion of sales coming from growth, and we wish him well on his marginally lower.
Overall currency effects customers operating and maintenance retirement back home in his native America.
Steam is universal as an energy source, used in processes in a diverse The Board was delighted to appoint Nick Operating profit increased by 11% to range of industries across the world, and our Anderson as Group Chief Executive in 151.6 million 2012: 136.2 million, with markets therefore reflect general economic January 2014.
Nick joined the Company an outstanding improvement in EMEA.
activity and rates of industrial production.
in September 2011, bringing his broad The operating profit margin rose from experience in the industrial engineering 20.6% to a record 22.0%.
Net finance Our assumption is that markets will continue industry to the Group, with an emphasis costs reduced and pre-tax profit was 12% to exhibit low levels of growth but with on international business operations and higher at 151.1 million 2012: 134.9 million.
modest overall improvement through 2014. sales management.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by We remain focused on our strategic priorities 14% to 138.8p 2012: 122.2p.
to generate our own growth, through Structure of the Annual Report broadening our global presence, capitalising Cash generation was once again very andAccounts on our investment in new products and strong with good cash conversion and we The Board welcomes the move to improve innovation, increasing market share and finished the year with a net cash balance corporate reporting and the 2013 Annual delivering application specific solutions of 16 million, which was after payment Report and Accounts fully embraces the through our teams of highly trained sales of the 100p per share special dividend of new regulatory and disclosure requirements.
The Annual Report and Accounts now leads strengths and growth strategies give the with a Strategic report explaining our market Board confidence that the Group will make The interim dividend was raised by 13% to place, our business model, our strategy and further progress in 2014, although stronger 18.0p per share, which was paid in November our performance in a clear and integrated sterling and currency weakness in a number 2013.
The Board is recommending an way.
The Governance section explains of emerging markets has provided a strong increase in the final dividend of 11% to 41.0p the detailed work of the Board and its headwind in the early months of this year.
per share payable on 30th May 2014 to Committees, and presents a Remuneration shareholders on the register at 2nd May Governance and Board changes policy report for consideration by 2014.
The total ordinary dividend for the year shareholders at the Annual General Meeting is therefore increased by 11% to 59.0p per The Board is ultimately responsible for on 20th May 2014.
We hope that you enjoy share 2012: 53.0p per share.
ensuring that the Group successfully reading this Annual Report and Accounts implements its strategies and achieves its A full review of our financial performance and that it is helpful to your understanding objectives of generating shareholder value commences on page 28. ofour business.
through consistent and sustainable growth The Board recognises the contribution made in earnings and dividends.
The Board and by our many exceptional people around the its Committees operate to the highest world who exemplify the Companys core ethical standards and corporate governance values.
On behalf of the Board, I would like practices, and demonstrates transparency to express our gratitude to all our employees through fair, balanced and understandable worldwide for their hard work and reporting.
Our full governance review commitment throughout the year and for commences on page 56. their individual contributions, which together During 2013, Mark Vernon announced his culminated in the good results achieved intention to retire as Group Chief Executive in 2013.
About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs
