SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Chairmans statement Total dividend The changes made in 2013 will take time to be fully reflected in the 3.54 financial performance of the Company, but it is planned to restore revenue to 10% growth in 2014 which will fund the necessary investment in product development and in the expansion of the sales and marketing activities for the long term growth of the business.
Alex Walker Chairman 2 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 is a year that marks a turning point for the Company.
The impact cancellation and the programme extended beyond this.
In total on the business due to the significant changes in our markets and 29.2 million shares were repurchased for $55.5 million in 2013. accelerating shifts in the structure of the industry we serve has No further buybacks are currently planned.
These trends manifested themselves through intense I am delighted to report the completion of the acquisition of the competition in the data center market, wireless device vendors business of DAX Technologies Corp. DAX for a cash consideration seeing lower profitability combined with a lull in new technology and of $37.0 million.
The acquisition of DAX will enable Spirent to combine service launches.
In addition, under investment in development of measurements and data from its solutions in the lab and in live new test systems in some parts of the business in previous years networks, delivering high value solutions and expertise that help and the lack of expansion of our products into new markets has customers deploy and manage complex new networks and services had a negative impact.
In response, we have undertaken a radical faster and more effectively.
reorganisation of the activities within Spirent with the key strategic objective to create long term value by harnessing Spirents leading In addition, today we are announcing the completion of the acquisition capabilities and talent.
It will take time to be fully reflected in the of a majority stake of 58 per cent of Testing Technologies IST GmbH financial performance of the Company, but it is planned to restore Testing Tech for a cash consideration of Euro 2.0 million.
This revenue to growth in 2014 which will fund the necessary investment acquisition, although small in size, is an important step in the in product development and in the expansion of the sales and progression of Spirents strategy to enter the automotive market.
marketing activities for the long term growth of the business.
We very much welcome the employees of both these companies into Group revenue reduced to $413.5 million 2012 $472.4 million.
resulted in a considerable fall in reported profit before tax to $39.1 million 2012 $108.4 million.
The first half-year saw revenue fall by The final dividend recommended is 2.01 cents per share compared with 19 per cent, but the rate of decline slowed in the second half-year with 1.83 cents per share in 2012.
This brings the total dividend for 2013 to revenues down by 6 per cent and underlying stability in order intake.
The 3.54 cents per share compared with 3.22 cents for 2012.
The increase in order book increased by $21.4 million in 2013 2012 a reduction of $14.5 total dividend per share is 10 per cent.
In sterling terms this represents million.
Operational highlights included the release of next-generation an increase in the distribution to our shareholders of 5 per cent.
products for Ethernet test, the launch of our advanced applications and security test system Avalanche NEXT and the delivery of test solutions Board changes for Chinas regional satellite navigation system, BeiDou.
September 2013 saw a change in senior management with Bill Burns stepping down as Chief Executive Officer and replaced in the role by Return on sales based on adjusted operating profit was 12 per cent for Eric Hutchinson.
Rachel Whiting, who has extensive financial the Group, down from 25 per cent last year, reflecting the impact of the experience and long service with Spirent, was welcomed to the fall in revenues and the investment in the business to drive recovery Board in February 2014 as Chief Financial Officer.
This investment was in the expansion of our operating capabilities: product development expenditure has been Outlook increased by $14.4 million and sales and marketing by $4.9 million.
The disruption and structural changes experienced in our markets in the first half of 2013 stabilised during the second half-year.
Basic earnings per share for the continuing Group decreased in 2013 The reorganisation of the Group in the fourth quarter of 2013 has to 5.10 cents per share 2012 12.11 cents.
Adjusted basic earnings released creativity and energy, which is driving a dynamic change per share was 5.71 cents 2012 13.02 cents : this is before charging in the responsiveness and agility of our businesses.
We continue to exceptional items, acquisition related costs, acquired intangible see opportunities arising through infrastructure investment in the asset amortisation and share-based payment.
wireless networks worldwide and in the development and rollout of virtual and cloud based services.
The Groups free cash flow generation was $43.9 million in 2013, 2012 $84.0 million : this is a cash conversion ratio of 1.3 times In 2014, we anticipate that Spirents revenue will be linked to recovery in reported earnings 2012 1.1 times continuing operations.
The China, growth in the Americas and expected stability in the European Company has no debt and cash balances were $216.2 million at market and we look to achieve high single digit organic growth.
This year the Group intends to make an additional investment of The Board aims to achieve a high return on capital employed in the around $33.0 million in future growth, in particular through a 15 per business.
The operating return on capital employed in the continuing cent increase in product development, extending the sales channel Group in 2013 was 16 per cent, excluding cash balances.
The target to break into new areas, expanding Spirents capabilities in the set for return on investment in acquired businesses is 16 per cent.
core markets that it serves and by entering new markets including Returns are low to negligible on cash balances, which are retained to automotive and enterprise.
Whilst there continue to be near term allow surety of completion for acquisition negotiations.
Whilst the uncertainties, activity levels at the beginning of 2014 are in line with Company continues to expect to invest in acquisitions which are in line our expectations.
The Board remain confident that progress will be with the strategy, it is also committed to returning surplus capital as achieved and that the Group will benefit from the investment to appropriate.
To that end, during 2013 the balance of the proceeds of create long term strategic value.
the divestment of the Systems business, approximately $33 million, was applied to the repurchase of Spirent shares in the market for 3
