The Business Review management & governance financial statements & notes additional information 17 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT i am pleased to announce that the group has continued to perform strongly, both operationally and financially.
the rate of growth has increased across the business with revenue and ebitda growing impressively.
the group has delivered strong cash generation and our balance sheet remains the group is well on its way to achieving the targets set under the 2011 solid.
our position as the consumers champion, offering an unmatched range employee bonus share scheme with the fy12 and fy13 underlying ebitda of products at the best available prices, is now reaching more countries as we targets successfully achieved.
although there are a further two targets to be continue to expand internationally.
met, i am delighted by the progress to date.
we are constantly looking for new ways of improving our business.
we invest the 2011 employee bonus share scheme has the following targets for group heavily in staff training to help them achieve their full potential.
our in-house underlying ebitda before scheme costs : programmes have continued in conjunction with our key partners nike, adidas and puma.
we focus on both shop floor-based and classroom activities.
fy12: fy13: fy14: fy15: they include key elements of professionalism such as product knowledge, 215m 250m 260m 300m communication, leadership and decision making.
the integration of a bespoke ACHIEVED ACHIEVED online training platform, to provide new starters with a thorough induction to the business, is one example of innovative training techniques deployed throughout i have no doubt this scheme will run as successfully as the 2009 employee the group.
bonus share scheme ensuring that our staff remain incentivised.
we are pleased that construction and integration of the phase 2 extension to Super Stretch Internal Targets the shirebrook distribution centre has been completed, and the extension to the board has decided not to propose the super-stretch executive bonus share the sportsdirect.
com store at shirebrook is now underway and completion is scheme super-stretch scheme for mike ashley, the companys executive scheduled for later in 2013. deputy chairman, at the upcoming annual general meeting.
the board will continue to focus on the super-stretch underlying ebitda before schemes our premium lifestyle division is continuing to grow through acquisitions costs targets of 310m for fy14 and 360m for fy15 and these will remain such as the flannels group in July 2012 and republic in february 2013. internal targets going forward.
however the board has decided to review various we continue to nurture this division and are already seeing increases in sales options with regard to remunerating mike ashley in light of the passage of time from earlier acquisitions.
since first considering this scheme.
the boards aim to expand further into europe has been a key strategic driver Pension Scheme for a number of years which has proved extremely successful.
since the start the enrolment of our employees into the governments auto-enrolment pension of fy13, we have organically grown our store portfolio in europe by 19 new scheme took place in may 2013. stores, and entered four new countries.
in conjunction with the acquisitions recently announced in austria and the baltics, we are now active in 19 the scheme is administered by the peoples pension and is available to all european countries.
employees who are deemed eligible under the governments criteria.
the group is committed to meeting the targets of a 1% contribution in 2013, international retail revenue grew 20.1% in the year and we have continued a 2% contribution in 2017 and a 3% contribution in 2018. we also contribute our international growth by opening stores in poland and spain during the first towards a number of workplace pensions in relation to companies which we quarter of fy14.
the introduction of the sportsdirect.
com website platform in 2006 provided the Dividend group with another route to market and means of serving our customers.
we the board has decided not to propose a dividend in respect to fy13.
the have continued to invest in this platform and the benefits are now clearly being board feels that it remains in the best interests of the company and its recognised.
online sales have increased from 11.6% of our total sports retail shareholders to maintain financial and strategic flexibility, including pursuit revenue in fy12 to 15.0% in fy13.
of potential acquisition opportunities and ongoing investment in group our online offering provides an excellent opportunity to expand the range and infrastructure and store portfolio.
the payment of dividends will remain under value of products available to our customers, reinforcing our position as the review for consideration in future years.
consumers champion by delivering exceptional quality at unbeatable value.
Conclusion we have a dedicated web team who run the website, marketing to our finally, on behalf of myself and the board, i would like to thank all of our customers with promotions and campaigns to encourage sales.
promotions employees for their substantial contribution during the year.
such as daily deals have proved successful and we will continue to invest time and resources in further developing our multi-channel offering.
Employee Bonus Share Scheme Keith Hellawell i am delighted to report that the second and final part of the 2009 employee non-executive chairman bonus share scheme will vest to our valued employees in august 2013.
18 July 2013 i hope that all the employees who have contributed towards the groups performance will enjoy their well-earned bonuses.
due to their hard work and dedication, the group continues to perform so strongly.
the financial rewards have already made a huge difference to so many employees.
with over 2,000 colleagues eligible for the second award, it remains a key part of our employee incentivisation and remuneration strategy.
