Chairmans statement Stagecoach Group has delivered a good set of results for the year 2012: 25.4p reflecting the growth in operating profit and the ended 30 April 2013.
We have achieved ten years of growth and earnings enhancing effect of the October 2011 return of cash to sector-leading returns for our shareholders and the Group is in a shareholders.
In line with the Groups strong performance, the Directors have We have a proven formula for sustainable growth across the proposed a final dividend of 6.0p per share.
This gives a total Group: strong operational performance, consistent investment dividend for the year up 10.3% at 8.6p 2012: 7.8p.
The in our bus and rail services, safe, high-quality and value-forproposed final dividend is payable to shareholders on the register money travel, high customer satisfaction and effective at 30 August 2013 and will be paid on 2 October 2013. partnerships.
Our strategy has ensured that we have been able to We have made a good start to the 2013 14 financial year.
make the most of the opportunities for growth and successfully Current trading is in line with our expectations and the Group negotiate the challenging economic landscape in recent years.
remains in a strong financial position.
Stagecoach has the best-performing bus division in the UK, On 1 May 2013, Martin Griffiths became Chief Executive of the which has set the standard for the industry over many years.
Our commercial regional bus operations are the cornerstone of the Group after 13 years as Finance Director.
We have the lowest fares of any major operator, the previously Director of Finance & Company Secretary, joined the highest customer satisfaction of any national operator and Board as Finance Director.
I became Chairman with the sector-leading profit margins, which have enabled us to invest retirement of Sir George Mathewson.
Garry Watts became several hundred million pounds in new buses in the past six Deputy Chairman, as well as continuing as Senior Independent years.
Gregor Alexander, Finance Director at SSE plc, joined the Board in April 2013 as an independent nonIn UK rail, we have continued our record of delivering for passengers and taxpayers across our passenger rail franchises and executive director.
I would also like to take this opportunity to light rail operations.
Our work over the past year under the South thank Sir George Mathewson for his business insight and West Trains-Network Rail Alliance shows we remain at the contribution to the Group over the past seven years.
forefront of new thinking about how to deliver a more efficient, Although there has been a transition of individual management more joined up and more customer-focused railway.
responsibilities, the executive team has been in place for many We are taking a leading role in helping to develop a new UK rail years and there is no change to the Groups business strategy.
I franchising model which we believe can build on the clear am confident the strategic direction and management of the contribution of private train companies to a growing, highbusiness is in good hands, with strong governance arrangements quality and financially successful UK rail network.
Following the and a management team with a record of delivering strong Department for Transport DfT announcement earlier this year returns to our shareholders.
At the same time, I personally regarding its plans, timetable and investment programme for UK remain fully committed to the success of Stagecoach in my role rail franchising, we have held initial discussions around the as Chairman and as a significant shareholder.
delivery of the planned extensions to our South West Trains and Since Stagecoach was founded in 1980, the success of the Group East Midlands Trains franchises.
The Group is also shortlisted for the Thameslink and Docklands Light Railway franchises, which has been built on a strong foundation of devolved local are due to begin operating in 2014. management teams who know their markets and what their customers want.
We are also developing a generation of talented North America is the fastest-growing part of our Group.
Underpinning those teams, we have megabus.
com brand has transformed the inter-city bus market committed frontline employees who enable the journeys of the since it launched in North America in 2006.
2012 13 has seen many customers we serve every day.
further investment in the product to ensure we maintain and grow our share of the competitive but rapidly expanding market.
I believe we can look forward to the next chapter of the Looking ahead, we are closely focused on good cost control and Stagecoach journey with confidence.
The public transport market achieving profitable growth.
We have also successfully integrated has long-term fundamental strengths and there is a political the businesses we acquired last summer into our North America consensus that it is central to the future of our economy, as well division and we believe they have good potential in their as making a key contribution to our communities and the individual sectors.
Stagecoach is well placed to take advantage of In December 2012, Virgin Rail Group reached an agreement to these growth factors and make bus and rail the travel modes of continue operating train services on the West Coast Mainline choice for increasing numbers of people in the UK and in North through to November 2014.
Subsequently, the DfT has America.
announced plans for a further extension to April 2017.
We and Virgin Rail Group want to develop the West Coast business further, maintaining the high quality of service and bringing more improvements to customers.
The Group has achieved good revenue and profit growth in the year to 30 April 2013.
Total operating profit before intangible Sir Brian Souter asset expenses and exceptional items was up 8.1% at 256.3m Chairman 2012: 237.2m.
Earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items were 18.9% higher at 30.2p 26 June 2013 Stagecoach Group plc | page 3
