SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 03 Chairmans Statement In the Annual Report last year I gave a frank assessment of Over the next year we have planned substantial investments what had been a difficult year for our company.
This year in our IT and Logistics infrastructure.
These programmes I am pleased to report solid progress in a number of key will enhance our capacity for future growth as well as areas.
enabling efficiencies within our existing operations.
I also anticipate that in the next 12 months the Group will see The Groups results show continued expansion of the significant developments in the international expansion of business, growing revenues and increased profits.
importantly, we have met market expectations on a consistent basis.
Improvements to internal forecasting and SuperGroup has, in many respects, grown up over the last review processes have enabled clearer and more accurate year.
The new people who have joined us have brought external communications about our performance and new skills and have often been a stimulus for change, but expectations.
it would not have been possible without the commitment and enthusiasm of those who have worked for the Group Our management team has been strengthened significantly.
for many years and, above all, a preparedness to learn and A year ago Susanne Given and Shaun Wills had recently improve throughout the company.
On behalf of the board joined in their respective roles as Chief Operating Officer Id like to thank everyone who works for SuperGroup for and Chief Financial Officer.
These key appointments what has been achieved over the last year.
have brought new skills and disciplines to the executive team which have complemented Julian Dunkerton and James Holder well.
The last 12 months have also seen Peter Bamford key appointments of a Head of UK and Ireland Retail, a Chairman Director of HR, a Director of IT, and a Head of Logistics.
10 July 2013 Most recently Hans Schmitt has been appointed to head up the International and Wholesale division.
The board has changed significantly too.
In addition to Susannes and Shauns appointments, Theo Karpathios resigned from his role as Chief Executive of the International and Wholesale business last August, while Steven Glew and Indira Thambiah stood down from their positions as non-executive directors at the end of January.
I would like to thank all three for their contributions to the development of SuperGroup, most notably Theo for his role as a cofounder and in laying the foundations of our international business.
Minnow Powell and Euan Sutherland joined the board at the end of November and have added new perspectives and brought an improved balance to the board.
The Superdry brand is in good health.
It continues to be in demand in all geographies and our brand tracking research shows it is distinctive and robust.
Julian Dunkertons vision, leadership and commercial skills combined with James Holders design talent have moved our product range forward on many fronts.
22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 04 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 05 Performance Business Review 07 - 16 Financial Review 18 - 22 Risk 23 - 25 Operating Responsibly 26 - 27 22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 06 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8
