Overview Chairmans statement Harnessing the knowledge and expertise of our people across the Group, and aligning with our customers needs, are key to driving future growth Sir Duncan Nichol Non-Executive Chairman I am pleased to report that Synergy has delivered a Results strongset of results for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Synergy has delivered strong full year growth in 2013, with Our planned expansion into the US healthcare market reported revenue of 361.2 million 2012: 312.0 million, hasproved to be well-timed, offsetting a tough economic representing an increase of 15.8%.
Underlying revenue environment in Europe.
We have visibility of an growth after removing the impact of currency movements unprecedented number of business development was 18.5%.
Adjusted operating profit was 56.2 million opportunities, with good growth prospects in all of our 2012: 49.0 million, representing an increase of 14.8%.
regions, particularly Asia & Africa and the Americas.
Underlying operating profit growth was 18.3%.
Adjusted operating margin decreased slightly to 15.6% 2012: We have a clear focus to recruit, train and develop talented, 15.7%, reflecting the initially dilutive effect of SRI Surgical diverse and highly motivated people at every level of the Express Inc. SRI, our US acquisition.
Group, in line with our stated strategy to differentiate ourselves through our people.
During the second half of Consistent with previous years, gains and losses associated the year we have taken steps to strengthen our regional with the acquisition and disposal of businesses were leadership in Europe & the Middle East and in Asia & recognised within non-recurring items and acquisitionAfrica, and we have begun enhancing our team in the related costs.
In addition, we have restructured our Americas, where accelerated growth is anticipated.
Dutchlinen business, closing and consolidating one facility, with further rationalisation expected in the coming The results detailed in this report demonstrate that year.
The combined effects of the acquisitions and the Synergygoes into the next financial year well placed to restructuring costs resulted in non-recurring items and continue to deliver sustainable growth into the future.
6 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements acquisition-related costs of 2.4 million.
After taking independent Non-Executive Director to further strengthen account of amortisation, non-recurring items and the Board and support the Group.
acquisition-related costs, profit before tax increased The Board has always recognised the paramount importance by19.6% to 38.8 million 2012: 32.5 million.
of having a wide range of views reflected at Board level, and the Groups commitment to diversity and the blend of the Shareholder return right skills and experience is shown in thecomposition of Driven by the growth in revenue, adjusted basic earnings theBoard, where women currently comprise 40% of its per share before intangibles, amortisation, non-recurring members.
The Board expects the Group to be in a position items and acquisition-related costs amounted to 66.75p tomaintain this level of representation when renewing Board 2012: 60.32p, an increase of 10.7%.
After taking account membership over the coming years.
of amortisation, non-recurring items and acquisition-related Detailed terms of reference for the Board and its committees costs, basic earnings per share were 54.17p 2012: clearly set out their respective responsibilities.
continues to be a rigorous and transparent procedure for An interim dividend of 7.90p per share 2012: 6.82p was the appointment of new Directors.
The effectiveness of the paid to shareholders on 14 December 2012.
The Board is Board, its committees and Directors, isassessed annually proposing a final dividend of 12.80p, which together with through a formal evaluation process.
Further details of how the interim dividend would give dividends for the year we have applied the principles of theCode in this regard totalling 20.70p 2012: 18.00p representing a 15.0% are set out in the Corporate Governance report and the increase.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting on Directors report.
25July 2013, the dividend will be paid on 5 September 2013 to shareholders on the Register of Members at Corporate responsibility 9August 2013.
The Group operates both ethically and responsibly in allareas of our business.
Our core values of integrity, Business development and acquisitions innovation, accountability and achievement are critical to Synergy continues to invest in strategic opportunities, the relationships we have with all our stakeholders, and andcompleted the acquisition of SRI during the year for underpin how we treat our customers, our suppliers and acash consideration excluding debt of 15.3 million.
the wider communities in which we operate.
Details of the Thepurchase of SRI, a NASDAQ-listed service provider Groups approach to Corporate Social Responsibility are ofsterile gown rental, instrument set rental and instrument disclosed on page 27 of the Business review.
processing services, has provided Synergy with scale, broad market access and infrastructure in an attractive Our people core service market.
Synergys growth and success revolves first and foremost During the year we continued to invest in additional capacity around the quality and commitment of our people and the across the business, completing significant capital projects shared values to which we all subscribe.
On behalf of the to meet increased customer demand in Malaysia, France, Board, I would like to thank our employees in all areas of the US and Costa Rica.
the Group for their hard work and dedication over the pastyear.
Further details of these acquisitions and investments are disclosed in the Regional review, and in note 24 to the I would also like to welcome new arrivals to the Group: financial statements.
Our strategy of growing key industry those who are just starting their careers, those who have sectors through acquisitions is unchanged, and with our moved to Synergy for personal development and those solid financial position we will continue to consider targeted who have joined us through acquisition.
bolt-on acquisitions and to evaluate strategic acquisitions toincrease shareholder value.
Outlook Overall, 2012 13 was a year of significant progress with The Board ourrapid expansion in the US.
The opportunities in this As Chairman of the Board, I am responsible for ensuring its market, together with the recent developments in China, effective management and processes.
I have set out my create exciting opportunities for growth in the coming commitment to excellence in governance in the Corporate years.
Whilst we still have to contend with tough markets, Governance report pages 35 to 39.
The Board takes its particularly in Europe, Synergy has an excellent leadership Corporate Governance responsibilities seriously, and I can team that leaves it well positioned to cope with all confirm that the Board is compliant with the principles of challenges, and turn our development opportunities into the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to leadership sustainable growth.
As we start the new financial year, and effectiveness.
The Board also continues to ensure theBoard is confident about the period ahead.
We will thatthere is clear distinction between the Board and the continue to implement our strategy and continue our Executive leadership of the Company led by the Chief journey of creating a world-class outsourcing business Executive Officer, Dr Richard Steeves.
On 7 June 2012 Robert Lerwill retired as Non-Executive Chairman from the Board.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Robert for the seven years of service he gave Sir Duncan Nichol to Synergy.
The Board plans to review its membership Chairman during the year, taking into account the Groups strategy ofexpanding internationally.
A formal international search 5 June 2013 process is underway to recruit an additional fully Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 7
