Chairmans statement Overview Dividend Strategy The Group experienced another Our strategy remains unchanged, The Board has recommended an challenging year in 2013.
The economic increased final dividend of 3.6p per focusing on delivering growth through environment in Europe continued geographic expansion in emerging share, making a total dividend for the to impact our trading performance, year of 6.0p.
The full year dividend of markets, where mega-trends such leading to a modest decline in as population growth, urbanisation 6.0p represents an increase of 9.1% earnings for the year.
While this is a over the previous year, and a dividend and increasing wealth are driving disappointment after several years of demand for our products across the cover of 3.5 times, on track with the Boards commitment to reduce continuous improvement, the Board region.
In these high-growth regions, believes the overall result demonstrates we are able to leverage the leading dividend cover to three times by 2015. the Groups resilience in the context of technologies, R&D and manufacturing the economic conditions.
The underlying capabilities which we have developed Safety, health and environment The Group is committed to the performance reects the benets of in European markets to give us a strong Synthomers transition over the last competitive advantage.
We have worked continuous improvement of its performance in respect of safety, 5 years into a major player in specialty hard to optimise our business in Europe aqueous polymers.
since the PolymerLatex acquisition health and the environment.
I am pleased that almost all of the metrics and ongoing cost management remains Full year performance a key focus of the Group, particularly that we measure in this area showed good improvement over the prior year.
Underlying Group sales declined in the current economic environment.
5.1% to 1,054.9 million 2012 People 1,111.8 million with Group volumes Given the economic situation in Europe, slightly up, despite a 2.5% decline we are taking some self-help actions in The Group has achieved a great deal in recent years with its transformation in Europe due to the effect of the our European business.
We have set in challenging trading environment.
progress a programme to reduce costs to a focused specialty aqueous polymers business.
None of this could have been by 10 million.
This programme will have Underlying Group operating profit for a cash cost of some 15 million, of which achieved without the hard work and dedication of the Groups employees the year was 104.8 million 2012 5 million will be capital expenditure.
111.2 million, a 5.8% decline on 2012. and I thank all of them for their support and hard work during this period.
This was due principally to operating Despite the weaker trading conditions profit in our European & North American in Europe, our business remains Board composition ENA business being 10% down on the highly cash generative, allowing us to prior year at 89.8 million, where, for the continue to invest in emerging market I am delighted that Brendan Connolly joined the Board as an Independent first time in 6 years we saw our average opportunities.
During the year we cash margins decline.
Encouragingly, commissioned our new 70,000 tonne Non-executive Director on 20 January 2014.
Brendan was, until June 2013, Asia and ROW business ARW profits nitrile latex capacity expansion in Pasir rose by 21% to 23.1 million, as the Gudang, Malaysia and also established a senior executive at Intertek Group PLC and had previously been Chief Executive market conditions we experienced in SBR manufacturing capability on the our nitrile business in 2012 recovered site.
We expanded our Middle East officer of Moody International which was acquired by Intertek in 2011. ahead of our initial expectations.
facilities, and will further expand them during 2014, along with bringing new Prior to Intertek, Brendan spent more than 25 years of his career with Underlying Group profit before tax capacity in Vietnam on stream.
was 90.1 million 2012 94.6 million, Schlumberger in senior international roles over three continents.
a decline of 4.8%, whilst earnings Additionally, we continue to look per share at 20.7p 2012 20.9p for further investment opportunities Outlook was down by 1.0%.
After deducting to expand our footprint in Asia.
special items IFRS profit before tax Whilst European macroeconomic indicators have started to show some was 59.1 million 2012 58.8 million.
Balance sheet Net debt, at 133.6 million, was more positive trends, we still see limited evidence of a sustained improvement 22.2 million lower than the start of the year.
This represents a net in trading conditions in Europe.
We have seen some signs of modest demand borrowing to EBITDA ratio of 1.1, which the Board considers to be improvement in our European Construction & Coatings, Functional a prudent leverage position.
Polymers and Performance Polymers 02 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Our strategy remains unchanged, focusing on delivering growth through geographic expansion in emerging markets... we are able to leverage the leading technologies, R&D and manufacturing capabilities which we have developed in European markets to give us a strong competitive advantage.
Neil Johnson Chairman segments in recent months.
However, we have entered 2014 with unit cash margins across the ENA business slightly below the 2013 average, and weakening of the Euro through the second half of 2013 will create a year-on-year drag.
We expect some further improvement in Asia as the supply demand position in Nitrile tightens and Synthomer continues to benefit from additional capacity and investment.
The Board remains confident that Synthomer is well placed for the future despite the European trading conditions.
Neil Johnson Chairman 27 February 2014 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 03
