Chairmans Statement Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and opportunity to acquire their own personal stake understandable and provides the information in the business through share ownership.
This necessary for shareholders to assess the naturally results in a greater sense of alignment Companys performance, business model and with shareholders.
In addition to reviewing and 2013 has been a great year deepening our shareholding guidelines for strategy.
In line with corporate governance requirements, we have also enhanced our senior management, we were also delighted for Taylor Wimpey.
that the most recent sharesave scheme saw a Audit Committee Report.
12% increase in take up with 1,184 employees Delivering on our commitments participating.
Currently 1,992 employees Kevin Beeston We remain committed to creating value for participate in one or both of our all-employee Chairman shareholders and delivering quality for all of share plans, representing 53% of eligible our stakeholders.
The cultural and process employees.
More details of our share schemes foundations are firm and this positions us can be found on page 63.
2013 performance well to achieve our vision to be the UKs Once again I am very pleased to be able to leading residential developer and to be the Corporate responsibility report to you that we have delivered a homebuilder of choice for our stakeholders.
Our values and strong culture are at the heart significant improvement against all of our of our success.
As a Board, we are determined We continuously review our strategy to make strategic objectives, resulting in a 38% increase that Taylor Wimpey should be known for how sure that it remains appropriate and aligned in Group operating profit to 312.9 million we conduct ourselves as well as for our to the interests of shareholders and other 2012: 226.1 million, while continuing to financial performance and, whilst we do not stakeholders.
Whilst the short term conditions strengthen the underlying quality of the business.
get everything right, these are responsibilities have improved through 2013, our cautious We enter 2014 well placed for the future.
that we will continue to fully embrace and strive and balanced strategy remains relevant to enhance.
For further information on our 2013 reporting and is working.
approach to corporate responsibility, please We value open and honest dialogue and see our 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report work hard to maintain high levels of trust and Our success in the year is undoubtedly which will be available from 21 March at thanks to the commitment and dedication transparency with all of our stakeholders.
co. uk years Annual Report incorporates a number of the 3,972 employees who make up the Taylor Wimpey team.
I would like to take this of improvements we have identified to make Corporate governance our strategy, business model and performance opportunity to thank all our employees for their Although our main objective is of course to efforts, hard work and dedication throughout easier to understand, including better linkages deliver shareholder value, the way in which between these three key factors pages 14 to 2013.
During 2013, Pete Redfern and the we deliver these returns is equally important senior management team conducted a series 15.
In addition, the Board welcomes and has to us.
Good corporate governance and risk adopted and embraced both the UK of 13 strategy update sessions across the management are therefore essential and we country, updating all employees.
Corporate Governance Code and the reporting have a strong track record of taking a changes introduced by the Department of considered approach in these areas.
The The Board firmly believes that employees Business, Innovation and Skills.
These include policies and guidelines we have in place, throughout the Company should have the the Boards confirmation that the Annual 8 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 setting standards concerning ethics, sound Diversity Board diversity We value diversity in every sense.
We believe business practices and wider governance, are regularly reviewed and can be found that establishing an organisational culture with diversity as a core value will better enable on our website.
individuals to reach their full potential and I am satisfied that your Board continues to provide a better service and representation to operate effectively and more information on our customers.
We also acknowledge that we what this means can be found within our must continue to promote diversity in order to Corporate Governance Report on pages create an organisation that attracts, supports 44 to 54.
We are very alert to the need for fair and promotes the broadest range of talent.
and proportionate remuneration arrangements and again have consulted very constructively Therefore, during the year we conducted with our major shareholders and their our first independent diversity study of the representative bodies concerning both 2013 business.
This highlighted the positive culture Male 78% 7 and 2014 policy and practice.
within the organisation of which we are Female 22% 2 justifiably proud.
However it also highlighted As a Board we remain committed to linking a number of areas where there is clearly room reward to the longer term objectives of Taylor Senior Management diversity for improvement.
Diversity and inclusion related Wimpey and, in turn, the longer term interests matters have now been added as a regular of shareholders.
This year, shareholders are, for agenda item for the Group Management Team the first time, invited to vote on both sections and we will focus on further implementing of the Remuneration Report a binding vote the recommendations of the study.
Further on our policy and an advisory vote on its information on our diversity policy can be implementation during 2014 and our proposals found on pages 52 and 78. for 2014.
We set out more details on our policy in our Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 75.
Board changes As previously reported, Baroness Brenda Dean Dividend of Thornton-le-Fylde stepped down from the We are an asset based business and operate Board as an Independent Non Executive Director in a cyclical industry and so fundamentally NED at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM believe that our dividend policy, as a key part following nine years of dedicated service Male 75% 6 of shareholder return, should reflect these two and again, I would like to thank her for her Female 25% 2 factors.
We remain committed to paying a outstanding service.
At that meeting we regular annual maintenance dividend, as we also welcomed Baroness Margaret Ford have for the last two years, of between 1-2% Employee diversity of Cunninghame to the Board as a NED of net asset value.
The 2013 final maintenance and Margaret has already made a very dividend of 0.47 pence 2012: 0.43 pence, valuable contribution.
if approved by shareholders at the Annual On 26 February 2014 we announced that General Meeting AGM, will be paid as a conventional cash dividend on 21 May 2014 Anthony Tony Reading MBE would be standing down from the Board at the to shareholders on the register at close of business on 11 April 2014.
Shareholders are conclusion of the 2014 AGM, again, after nine years of outstanding service.
On behalf of the once again being offered the opportunity to reinvest all of their dividend under the Dividend Board, I would also like to thank Tony for his invaluable contribution to the Board and Re-Investment Plan DRIP.
More information can be found on page 136. especially his chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee, since the merger between George We can be a very cash generative business Wimpey and Taylor Woodrow in 2007, which Male 69% 2,732 and how we best use that cash to achieve the will now be chaired by Margaret Ford.
Female 31% 1,240 optimum balance of reducing risk to protect the business and delivering the best quality of Finally, on behalf of the Board and shareholders returns, largely depends on the cyclical risk I would like to thank our Executive Directors and the land market, as well as the business for their outstanding leadership of the business.
We believe now is the time to I truly believe we have a team of the highest commence cash returns and accordingly a quality with the right experience, drive and special dividend of c. 50 million 1.54 pence perspective that will continue to position per share will be paid in 2014 and 200 million Taylor Wimpey as an excellent business for c. 6.16 pence per share in 2015.
out our policy in full on page 13.
The 2014 special dividend will be paid as a cash dividend on 3 July 2014 to all shareholders on the register at close of business on 6 June 2014.
The DRIP will not be made available in respect of special dividend payments.
Kevin Beeston Chairman Taylor Wimpey plc www.
