8 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Chairmans statement While TelecityGroup made progress in 2013, with successful entry into new We entered markets and the delivery of a solid set of results, your Board intends to take all three new necessary steps to return the Company to upper quartile value creation.
markets in Europe in 2013 John Hughes, CBE Chairman Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 9 While TelecityGroup made progress in 2013, with successful During a search for a new Independent non-executive Director, entry into new markets and the delivery of a solid set of results, we found two outstanding candidates, Claudia Arney and Nancy the performance we delivered was not at the level we aspire to.
Although we had intended to recruit just one As a result your Board is focused on returning to upper quartile independent non-executive, we decided that Claudias and shareholder value creation.
Nancys differing but complementary skills meant that by recruiting both, we could meaningfully strengthen the Board.
On an organic basis we opened new capacity across Europe I am delighted that they both joined and thank them for the during the year.
This was typically associated with existing sites, outstanding contributions that they have each already made where connectivity is high and we have growing demand from to the Group.
We have also worked to ensure that our customer offer remains core to the European In October, we announced that Brian McArthur-Muscroft would digital economy as it evolves, with for example the launch of our be stepping down from the role of Group Finance Director on new Cloud-IX platform.
This connects cloud service providers 31st January 2014.
I would like to thank Brian for his substantial and other customers in a simple, exible, scalable and costcontribution to the success and management of TelecityGroup effective way.
and wish him well for the future.
We entered three new markets in Europe during 2013 through the Following a rigorous search process for a Chief Financial Of cer, acquisitions of SadeceHosting in Istanbul, 3DC in So a and PLIX we have seen an outstanding group of candidates.
These markets promise strong demand growth due discussions with a shortlist of those candidates and will make a to their growing domestic digital economies, demographics and further announcement in due course.
geographic locations, which make them natural national and We have also recently implemented changes at the executive regional internet hubs.
This has simpli ed the management structure The integration of these businesses is progressing well and I with four regional Vice Presidents now taking overall responsibility expect them to make a signi cant contribution to the Group in for trading and growth within their geographies.
This will be both through the growth that they Alexandra Schless has been appointed Vice President Western deliver locally and also new expertise that they have brought to Europe, Niclas Sanfridsson becomes Vice President for the the Group.
In particular, the knowledge that has come with the Nordic region and Maurice Mortell Vice President for Ireland and ownership of the main Polish Internet Exchange, which is part Emerging Markets, while Rob Coupland retains his responsibilities of PLIX, will be valuable in helping the Group build its European leading the UK division.
At the Group level, James Tyler has been appointed Chief I would like to con rm a warm welcome to the Group for all of our Commercial Of cer, with overall responsibility for developing new employees in Turkey, Bulgaria and Poland.
TelecityGroups customer offer and go-to-market strategy.
Our 2012 acquisitions in Helsinki are now fully integrated into Alex, Rob, Niclas, Maurice and James are all experienced and TelecityGroup, with our fifth site in the city, Hansa, being opened long-serving managers at the Group.
I have great con dence in by the UK Business Secretary, the Rt.
Dr. Vince Cable in their ability to drive its success going forward.
We have recently secured our first major new customer in that site in the form of a large cloud platform for a As part of our ongoing commitment to good governance, a full major global player.
This helps to underpin our business case for Board assessment has recently been completed by an external the investment in Helsinki.
This included a review of areas such as structure, processes and performance.
The outcome of this exercise was positive, A full discussion of our performance in 2013 starts on page 28. both con rming existing good practice and informing us of some I am pleased with the continued progress that we have made with enhancements to Board process.
our Corporate and Social Responsibility programme CSR and Our full governance review, including a report from the CSR governance objectives.
We continue to attach a high priority to committee, commences on page 38. being a good corporate citizen and consequently are committed to strengthening and deepening our CSR activities.
Our focus Looking to this year, 2014 promises to be an interesting one for remains on targets around energy ef ciency, reducing our overall TelecityGroup.
We will continue to grow the company, with a environmental impact, enhancing quality standards, customer strong focus on value creation through disciplined capital satisfaction and employee engagement.
allocation, be it in organic growth, M&A or returns to shareholders.
We have made several changes to the Board since our last Finally, I would like to thank our employees, customers, suppliers Annual Report.
In March, Sahar Elhabashi stepped down as an and shareholders for their on-going support, as we continue to independent non-executive Director, due to a focus on her develop Europes leading carrier-neutral data centre business.
I would like to thank her for her contribution and wish her continued success.
Our Board John Hughes, CBE Biographies of all our Board members as well as Committee Chairman reports canbe found in the Governance review.
11 February 2014 See p42-43 for more detail 10 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 12 Our business model 14 Chief Executives review Strategy 20 Strategy 22 Risk management 24 Principal risks and uncertainties Gutleutstrasse, Frankfurt Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 11
