BUSINESS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am delighted to report another successful year for the Company, in which we have seen a further improvement in the quality of our customer base combined with strong growth in the number of services we are providing.
As a result, revenue and profitability have both reached record levels.
RESULTS Pre-tax profits increased to 34.6m 2012: 30.7m on revenue up by 27.6% to 601.5m 2012: 471.5m : earnings per share for the year rose by 14.5% to 38.7p 2012: 33.8p.
The rise in revenue is due to continued strong organic growth in the number of customers using our services, the progressive improvement we are seeing in the quality of our customer base, an industry wide increase in energy prices last autumn, and a significant increase in the amount of energy used by our customers during the year following the swing from a warm winter last year to an exceptionally cold winter this year.
We remain encouraged by the strong growth in the number of services we are providing, which reached 1,602,060 2012: 1,381,023 by the year end a record increase of over 220,000 services during the year and comfortably ahead of the growth achieved during the previous year.
This has been driven by a further rise in the proportion of new customers taking at least four of our core services Gas, Electricity, Home Phone, Mobile and Broadband to over 55% during the course of the year, and means that the average number of services taken by each residential Club member has now reached 3.80 2012: 3.63.
The net investment within our Customer Acquisition operating segment increased to 10.1m 2012: 8.9m reflecting an increase in the proportion of new members taking at least four core services combined with the continuing strong levels of organic growth we are achieving.
Cash generation during the year was in line with management expectations, with our net cash position of 0.8m at the year end being broadly unchanged compared with the previous year.
In line with previous guidance, we are proposing a final dividend of 18p 2012: 17p, bringing the total for the year to 31p 2012: 27p : this represents an increase of 14.8% compared with last year.
We remain committed to our progressive dividend policy, and accordingly expect that dividends will continue to increase broadly in line with earnings growth.
We were delighted to receive a number of further endorsements from Which?
magazine during the year recognising the value we offer and the quality of service provided by our UK based customer service team.
This is a reflection of the significant effort and resources we have put into delivering the best possible service to our customers, consistent with our new focus on becoming the Nations most trusted utility supplier.
The impact of this investment is demonstrated by recent surveys carried out amongst our customers, in which we have consistently achieved a Net Promoter Score of 40: this is substantially better than the level reported by any other utility provider.
ENERGY SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS We continue to enjoy a strong working relationship with npower, who provide the wholesale gas and electricity used by our customers.
As previously reported, the wholesale price we pay under these arrangements will become progressively more competitive as we go through a series of pre-agreed thresholds relating to the size of our customer base.
We anticipate that part of the additional margin this generates will be used to make our retail prices even more competitive.
7 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED OPUS Our share of the profits from Opus Energy Group Ltd Opus, in which we maintain a 20% stake, increased during the year to 3.4m 2012: 2.7m.
This excellent result reflects a continuing strong trading performance, and the successful progress they are making in supplying gas alongside electricity into the small business and corporate sector, for which they are now buying renewable energy from over 500 small UK generators.
Opus revenues increased by 32.8% to just over 358m 2012: 270m and profit before tax increased from 18m to 22.4m.
We remain encouraged by the resilience of their business model and the strength and experience of their management team, and expect to receive a dividend of approximately 3m in July 2013.
Our shareholding in Opus is valued on our balance sheet at 7.2m in line with standard accounting policy, notwithstanding the likelihood that its market value is substantially in excess of this figure: it remains our intention to maintain our stake in this rapidly growing, profitable and highly cash generative business for the foreseeable future.
WORKING CAPITAL Our year end balance sheet shows a net cash position broadly unchanged at 0.8m, notwithstanding an increase of 7.5m in our working capital during the year: this is consistent with the growth in our revenues compared with last year, and was largely unaffected by any impact of the exceptionally cold winter weather on budget plan debtors due to our unique wholesale supply arrangements with npower.
Going forward, the strong growth we are seeing in the number of mobile services we supply, particularly amongst customers requesting a free Smartphone on a 24-month contract, is expected to absorb increasing amounts of working capital over the next two years.
DIVIDEND The final dividend of 18p per share 2012: 17p will be paid on 2 August 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 19 July 2013 and is subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting which will be held on 17 July 2013.
This makes a total dividend payable for the year of 31p 2012: 27p.
We anticipate that further growth in earnings from the current level will be reflected in a corresponding rise in the level of distributions to shareholders, subject to any requirement to fund an increase in the working capital as the business continues to grow.
In line with this policy, we expect our total dividend for the current year will rise broadly in line with earnings growth.
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Over the last few years we have successfully taken a series of steps to improve the quality of our customer base, as a result of which we have seen the overall proportion of Gold Status residential Club members taking at least four of our core services Gas, Electricity, Mobile, Home Phone and Broadband rise progressively over the year to 39.5% 2012: 33.8%.
As the penetration of Gold Status amongst new residential members has been running consistently above 55% since the range of benefits offered to them was strengthened in March 2012, we anticipate that this encouraging upward trend will continue.
This improving quality has led to a continuation of the downward trend in the level of churn within our residential Club over the last few years, which fell to an average of 1.2% per month during the final quarter.
This clearly demonstrates the benefit we are deriving from the significant resources we have invested to attract and retain multi-service Gold Status members.
We have also seen an encouraging reduction in our bad debt charge to 9.0m for the year representing 1.5% of revenue 2012: 2.0%.
To build on this progress, we have recently announced a new focus on building trust in every aspect of our business, with a view to establishing ourselves unequivocally as the Nations most trusted utility supplier: to ensure we deliver what our members both want and expect from us: to provide customer service that is genuinely best in class: to improve the clarity and transparency of the benefits we offer: and to consistently exceed our customers expectations.
8 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS This is an exciting opportunity for us, as utility providers in the UK have generally not historically enjoyed the trust and confidence of their customers.
We believe that if we can successfully create a new type of relationship with them, it will generate material long term benefits for all stakeholders.
We are not helped in this mission by the specific requirement to give each new customer a personal projection for how much their energy will cost in the first year after they switch to us, notwithstanding that the information needed to provide this accurately such as their historical energy consumption, future energy prices, and whether the coming year will be warmer or colder than usual is in most cases simply not available.
We continue to lobby both Ofgem and DECC to remove this obligation, and in the meantime need to explain to customers the significant shortcomings with the figures they are being given.
DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL The number of new Distributors joining the business between April and December last year averaged around 900 per month.
Since then, we have seen a significant increase to around 1,300 per month, taking the total number of registered Distributors at the year end to a record high of almost 39,000 2012: 37,263.
We believe the high level of interest in joining our business is being driven by the combination of increasing pressure on household budgets, growing awareness of our business, and the attractiveness of the secure part-time additional income opportunity we offer.
We continue to enhance our compensation plan and training programme to help new Distributors get started more quickly, and to promote our services more effectively.
Confidence and morale within the distribution channel remains extremely high, as reflected by the increase in both customer gathering and Distributor recruitment activity we have achieved since the New Year.
Our annual sales conference in March was attended by a record number of Distributors, and we are delighted with the further boost this has given to the strong momentum we were already seeing.
PREMISES AND SYSTEMS We anticipate starting work this coming autumn on refurbishing the new headquarters office building which we purchased in February 2012.
Once this 18-month project has been completed, it will provide sufficient office accommodation to support our growing business needs for the foreseeable future.
From a systems perspective, we have the capacity to manage a substantial increase in our current customer numbers, without the need for any material further investment.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code encourages the Chairman to report personally on how the principles in the Code relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied.
As a Board we are responsible to the Companys shareholders for delivering sustainable shareholder value over the long term through effective management and good governance.
A key role of mine, as Executive Chairman, is to provide strong leadership to enable the Board to operate effectively.
We believe that open and rigorous debate around key strategic issues and risks faced by the Company is important in achieving our objectives and the Company is fortunate to have non-executive directors with diverse and extensive business experience who actively contribute to these discussions.
Further detail of the Companys governance processes and compliance with the Code is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement.
OUTLOOK We held our annual sales conference over the weekend of 16 and 17 March, shortly before the year end, with over 6,000 Distributors joining us.
At this event we announced a number of incremental changes to our range of communications services, making them simpler, more competitive and easier to sell: these received a strong positive 9 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED reaction from those present.
In particular, we have seen an encouraging increase in the number of new customers ordering our mobile service, and in the proportion that are choosing a free Smartphone on a 24-month contract.
Our intention is to continue to build upon the momentum which the business has developed over the last few years, to further increase both the quality and quantity of new customers being gathered.
We are maintaining our target to grow service numbers within our residential Club at 20% per annum for the next few years, despite falling slightly short of achieving this level of growth last year.
Achievement of this target will require us to continue simplifying our service proposition to make it easier for our Distributors to sign up new members thus improving the average productivity of new Distributors, combined with effective direct marketing to both existing and former members.
The steadily improving quality of our customer base gives us good visibility over future revenues and margins on the various services we provide.
Notwithstanding the additional investment in customer acquisition costs required to fund this continued rapid growth, we anticipate that earnings growth for the current year should be broadly in line with the growth we have reported in the number of services being taken by our customers for last year.
Within the energy sector as a whole, significant investment is needed over the next decade to renew and extend the distribution network, replace nuclear and coal-fired generating plant that is approaching the end of its useful life, roll out smart meters, and encourage the take up of energy efficiency and renewable energy programmes.
The costs associated with delivering these initiatives are likely to put continued upward pressure on retail energy prices over the medium term, irrespective of any movements in wholesale energy commodity costs.
Ofgem is currently considering responses from interested parties to the latest proposed changes under their Retail Market Review RMR.
Whilst it is impossible to be certain exactly how these will impact our business model, it would be reasonable to expect their stated objectives of simplifying tariffs, improving transparency and creating a more competitive framework to be broadly positive for us as the only independent residential energy supplier thus far to have successfully achieved significant scale.
We continue to engage constructively with Ofgem on the detailed changes being proposed, to ensure consumers can continue receiving an appropriate range of benefits from us commensurate with our fully integrated multi-utility business model.
We also look forward to taking advantage of the opportunities this review should provide to take our unique customer-focussed proposition of consistent value, the convenience of receiving a simple and clear integrated bill each month, and exceptional customer service, to a new and significantly wider consumer audience over the years ahead.
Our distribution channel continues to demonstrate its ability to gather high quality new customers in increasing numbers, and the consistently high proportion of new members joining with Gold Status is particularly encouraging.
Our current market share of around 1.5% of UK households demonstrates the scale of the organic growth opportunity available to us, and the combination of our route to market and unique customer proposition continues to give us a significant competitive advantage.
Our management team remains clearly focussed on delivering further significant organic growth: achievement of this goal would create significant shareholder value due to the substantial operating leverage inherent in our business model.
It only remains for me to thank my boardroom colleagues for their support and all our staff and Distributors for their loyalty and hard work during the past year, and to wish each and every one of them success in the years to come.
Charles Wigoder Executive Chairman 20 May 2013 10 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
