OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 1 Chairmans statement This time last year, I referred to the business going through a transition and said: We will continue in 2012 13 to address long-standing business issues in the UK and elsewhere in order to secure future prosperity as well as ensuring that our financial and human resources are developed and deployed where they are able most effectively to generate future growth and returns.
This is what has been done.
It has been a year of addressing longstanding business issues: bedding in management and governance change: and laying the foundations for sustainable future growth.
In all these areas I believe the Company has responded with energy, skill and application and we have made progress.
Business issues One of the greatest challenges for a business is to face itself honestly.
It is also the mark of a quality business that it can do so, since the capacity to name issues is the essential first step towards addressing them.
The decisions to seek a sale of the US business and to call an end to the UK space race in large stores reflect this.
As with the decision last year to reinvest in our UK business, they reflected a long, hard look at where the business needs to devote its energy and resources to create sustainable value: and a willingness to face up to tough decisions to do this.
Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman Some of these decisions had painful short-term consequences.
The early signs are that the decision to reinvest in the UK is strengthening the business and we believe the steps we have taken in the US and in respect to UK property will similarly underpin a sustainable, profitable future, notwithstanding the accounting It has been a year of addressing long-standing write-downs we have had to take this year as a consequence.
business issues: bedding in management and Bedding in management and governance change governance change: and laying the foundations The year has also seen a generational transition in management.
This is not a surprise when there has been a relatively unchanged for sustainable future growth.
In all these management team in place for a substantial time and we are areas I believe the Company has responded fortunate in Tesco to have a substantial depth of talent to draw on from around the world.
It is striking how many of the executives with energy, skill and application and we have taking on new and enhanced responsibilities bring international as made progress.
well as extensive UK experience to their roles, reflecting the breadth of Tescos business.
A largely new Executive Committee has been developed under Philip Clarkes leadership.
Many talented, and widely experienced, younger executives are getting to grips with new responsibilities with skill and enthusiasm.
Similarly in the UK business, a substantially new leadership team with a wide diversity of experience and skills is in place under a new Managing Director.
com ar2013 to hear more from Sir Richard Broadbent and other members of the leadership team.
2 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Chairmans statement continued The Board also has been reshaped during the year.
We now have We will approach these choices within a framework of rigorous a smaller Board, of ten, with a different balance of Executives and capital discipline.
A company like Tesco will often appear to have Non-executives.
Three Executive Directors Andrew Higginson, multiple short-term opportunities to invest, but sustained returns Tim Mason and Lucy Neville-Rolfe have left the Board since our last depend on a rigorous judgement about both the quantum and Annual Report and we are grateful for all that they have contributed allocation of capital over time.
As we made clear in our Preliminary to Tesco over many years.
The Group Executive Committee rather Results announcement in April, this is a discipline that now informs than the Board is now the focus of operational business oversight, all that we do.
allowing the Board to focus on a more strategic agenda.
Financial results We have also seen Karen Cook and Ken Hydon, two long-serving The financial results for the year reflected the steps being taken Non-executives, retire after nine years on the Board and we extend to ensure that we can deliver sustainable and attractive returns and our thanks to them for their contributions.
Liv Garfield, Chief long-term growth for shareholders.
Hence, while we continued Executive of BT Openreach, joined the Board as a Non-executive to see sales growth, of 1.3%, Group trading profit was down 13.0 % Director on 1 April 2013. on last year and underlying profit before tax down by 14.5 %, reflecting our previously announced investment in the shopping trip Laying the foundations for future growth for customers in the UK, in addition to the impact of regulatory As immediate operational business issues are addressed, our restrictions on opening hours in South Korea and the effects of attention can turn increasingly to the strategic judgements that will deteriorating economic conditions, particularly in Central Europe.
determine Tescos prosperity and value for shareholders over the Statutory profit before tax fell by 51.5 %, due to the impact of a next decade.
Our strategic choices are defined by three parameters: number of significant but one-off charges related to the important the strength of the Tesco brand: the internet and all the associated steps we are taking to reshape the business, including a write-down developments it is driving: and the potential to leverage our skill and of our UK property following an in-depth review of our forward scale internationally.
pipeline, our exit from the US and goodwill impairment of businesses All retailers must decide how to position their businesses relative in Poland, Czech Republic, and Turkey.
to the rapid development of the internet which, together with social Return on capital employed ROCE decreased during the year media, is changing both how consumers choose to shop and what as expected, reflecting the impact of the decline in trading profit they expect from a retailer that aspires to serve them.
This creates as described above.
Prior to the impact of one-off charges, Group both opportunities and challenges which Tesco needs to understand ROCE was 12.7%.
We continued our long record of strong dividend and respond to, both in terms of offering more diverse ways for payouts to shareholders, with the full year dividend maintained customers to shop and by forging more personal, customised at 14.76p.
I would like to extend my thanks, on behalf of the Board, to everyone Internationally, we have the potential to create value for shareholders in Tesco who in an exceptional year has, as always, striven to by leveraging our skill and scale into relatively high-growth economies anticipate and meet the needs of our customers while all the time with less well-developed retail sectors.
The key to unlocking this retaining a sense of perspective, sometimes a sense of humour and value is discipline in how opportunities are approached and flexibility, always a sense of respect for others.
They are a great group of drawing on the lessons of experience, in how they are developed.
people and we are lucky to have them.
At the same time, and driven by many of the same factors, brand and reputation will become ever more critical points of differentiation as the internet continues to broaden access and choice for consumers, and as consumers themselves develop expectations about levels of choice, service and, increasingly, behaviours that match their own values and aspirations.
Against this background, the investment choices we make over Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman the next few years as we develop Tesco as an international multichannel retailer with strong brands and a distinctive identity appreciated by customers, are and will continue to be critical judgements for the Board as it seeks to secure long-term returns for shareholders.
