8 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Overview: Chairmans statement A year of positive change and significant achievement We have built a rm foundation and we believe theGroup has the potential to create significant value in the future.
Dear Shareholder It is a real pleasure to report a year of positive change and significant achievement: a year when we have successfully delivered the first year of our Transformation and signicantly improved our financial performance: a year when we have developed and started to deliver against our strategy for profitable growth: a year when we have successfully strengthened our balance sheet with the completion of our 1.6 billion Capital Renancing Plan and an ongoing range of internal disciplines.
These achievements are significant by any standards and 2012 13 will be a year to remember in the history of this great Company.
But this is just the start: we have built a rm foundation from which we will continue to deliver against our targets and KPIs as our strengthened Management Team, under the leadership of Harriet Green, continue to drive forward our Transformation and implement our strategy for profitable growth.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 9 Itis, however, particularly pleasing to see Transformation and strategy for Our employees evidence of a cultural shift having taken place, profitable growth 1 The pace of change as we drive forward our with the silos of old broken down and our Transformation is made possible by thehard Our Transformation has, out of necessity, people working together as one Group.
work and delivery by our managementand challenging targets and, against a range of employees.
On behalf of the Board, I would measures, we have exceeded our original Building a stronger and more like to thank them for their significant expectations.
Under the leadership of Harriet diverse Board contribution in delivering a sustainable Green and her Management Team, we have futurefor all our stakeholders.
successfully reversed the negative trends of We have strengthened the Board with the the past by improving the performance of addition of three independent Non-Executive the businesses, improved cash ow, almost Directors.
In reviewing the construct of the Engaging with our important halved net debt, taken significant cost out Board we aim to ensure we have high calibre stakeholders of the business and increased the cost out individuals, who possess the range of skills Our many stakeholders are important to our targets for future years.
The considerable and experience that we need to ensure business and we appreciate their tremendous progress made in the first half of the year quality contribution to our decision making.
support and loyalty in recent years.
enabled us to strengthen the balance sheet I am pleased that Emre Berkin joined the with the 1.6 billion Capital Renancing Plan, Board inNovember 2012 and Carl Symon and In addition to our shareholders, I would like including extended maturities of our bank Warren Tucker in October 2013.
We welcome to thank the banks, bondholders and our key facilities.
We made disposals to focus on the breadth of skills and experience that they regulators for their support before, during our core businesses, conducted one of the bring to our deliberations.
and after executing our 1.6 billion Capital 2 most in-depth surveys of travellers to provide Renancing Plan.
We will continue to engage valuable data to support the development of Roger Burnell, who has served the Board with them as we deliver our Transformation our strategy for profitable growth which was well over the years, most recently as and strategy for profitable growth.
We should presented to investors in March 2013 and Senior Independent Director and Chair also recognise our corporate advisors, who started to deliver against that strategy.
of the Remuneration Committee, has have helped the Board steer a steady course decided to retire at the AGM in February during the past few years.
The unication of our brands under one 2014.
He has served on the Board of the common symbol, the Sunny Heart, Company and, prior to the merger in 2007, supported by our new brand values and our MyTravel Groupplc, fora total period of Sustainable future One Airline approach are just two of many just over 10 years.
I would like to thank The Board is delighted with the progress examples of how we are working together, Roger for his contribution to the Board and achieved to date, which is reected in the tearing down the walls across the Segments particularly for chairing the Remuneration ten-fold increase to our share price in the past and leveraging the combined power of Committee during a period of significant year.
Although we recognise there is much the Group.
The significant progress made change and improvement to our executive more to do as we implement our strategy for throughout the year, has helped attract high remuneration arrangements.
Upon Rogers profitable growth, the Board is confident of a calibre talent to many areas of the business retirement, Carl Symon will take on the sustainable future as our management across to support and drive further progress against role of Senior Independent Director and the Group, under the leadership of Harriet our targets.
Warren Tucker will become Chair of the Green and her Executive Team, continue to Remuneration Committee.
3 build on our rm foundations and deliver Corporate culture beyond the targets we have set for 2015.
We strongly believe that diversity adds Through using the Thomas Cook Business A major feature in the Transformation has significant value to the quality of discussion System to further improve the Group, the been the development of Group-wide and decision making and we are pleased with Board believes that the Group hasthe Values, Ways of Working and standards the progress made by both the Board and potential to create significant shareholder combined within a Code of Conduct.
The Board currently value in the future.
The Code was developed by managers and comprises three women and seven men, employees across the Group and sets out in of which six are based in the UK, two in clear language the standards of behaviour Continental Europe, one in Turkey and one Frank Meysman that are required by all of our employees, inthe US.
When looking for additional NonChairman wherever they may work.
The Board fully Executive Directors, we will search in countries 27 November 2013 recognises that an organisations culture is an in which we have significant operations to important part of ensuring that our progress capture relevant local knowledge, as well is sustainable and we have paid particular as a broad range of skills appropriate to our attention to the introduction and roll-out Boardroom.
In my report on governance, of the Code to ensure it is rmly embedded Igive more detail on the progress we have across the Group.
The Board is encouraged made in respect of the effectiveness of bythe significant progress that has been theBoard and the action plan that we have made in each aspect of the Transformation.
inplace to develop this further.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report
