12 ChaiRMaNS STaTEMENT FOR ThE yEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 intrODuctiOn Although it is still early days for the recovery, the outlook for the building materials market continues to improve.
In 2013 the Group finally saw its markets come out of recession as confidence in the Robert walker, Chairman building industry, driven partly by the Governments help-to-Buy scheme, picked up.
however, its worth noting that the uK market for The Group has a building and construction materials strong platform is still, at December 2013, 13% below the peak levels of 2008. from which to Travis Perkins is led by an experienced board and take advantage of executive team that has adopted a measured approach to trading and investment throughout the the opportunities last five years.
It has a strong portfolio of businesses that give it national reach, considerable product for sustainable breadth, a diversified customer base, a market leading supply chain capability and leading positions growth presented in each of its markets.
Managements track record of successfully combining organic and acquisitive growth has led to a consistent outperformance in by the increasing total returns to shareholders.
Overall this means the Group has a strong platform from which to confidence of its take advantage of the opportunities for sustainable growth presented by the increasing confidence of customers.
Managing top management succession is the most important task undertaken by the Board of directors.
working closely with Geoff Cooper, the Board commenced over two years ago to plan for orderly succession: in so doing, the aim was TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 to ensure best in class practice and mitigate any Expansion remains a cornerstone of the Groups 13 investor uncertainty.
strategy so the acquisitions of Solfex and an Since early 2011, the Board has held frequent online heating products distribution company Nominations Committee meetings: examined the were welcome additions to the Groups portfolio of Companys long term strategy to evaluate the need businesses.
In addition a net 43 sites were opened for external or internal succession, and to clarify the during the year increasing the number of trading balance of complementary skills required at the top.
premises to 1,939 by the year-end.
Investors were kept closely informed of the process, DiviDenD and a clear succession process was initiated: The Board remains confident about the Groups In October 2012, Tony Buffin was announced as prospects, and believes that it should continue with the Group's new CFO, following Paul hampden its progressive policy of increasing dividends at a Smith's announcement of his intention to retire faster rate than the rate of increase in earnings to after 17 years achieve its re-stated target dividend cover ratio of In july 2013, Geoff Cooper's retirement was between 2.5x and 3.25x for 2014 and onwards.
announced as CEO in December 2013 and Accordingly, the Board is pleased to recommend john Carter's appointment as CEO from a final dividend for 2013 of 21p per share, giving a 1 january 2014 total dividend for the year of 31p 2012: 25p, an increase of 24% over 2012.
The final dividend will In September 2013, john Carter reorganised his be paid on 30 May 2014 to shareholders on the senior management team and announced the register on 2 May 2014. new group structure The total cash outflow for dividends declared in Finally, in December 2013, the Group's new 2013 will be approximately 75m.
executive team presented to the Capital Markets its plans for leveraging the Group's position as the BOarD OF DirectOrS largest supplier of building materials in the uK.
As a fast moving trading business, operating in Details can be found on the Companys website competitive markets, the Group has benefited and in the evolution of the Groups strategy significantly from having a very settled Board of section of this report on page 31 Directors to guide it through the difficult markets The aim throughout has been to mitigate investor it experienced over the last few years.
The Boards uncertainty around these changes and ensure that directors have all had significant P&l and operating our investors share our confidence in the future experience, mostly either as CFOs or CEOs of prospects of Travis Perkins.
large businesses, so they bring to the Board table a vast array of experience in dealing with most reSultS business situations.
Although the poor weather impacted the start to One of the key factors in the Groups success the year, 2013 has been a successful year for the is Geoff Cooper who has led the Company with Group.
Revenue increased by 6.3% to 5.1bn considerable skill and expertise over the last nine 2012: 4.8bn whilst adjusted profit before tax rose years, the results of which are that Travis Perkins is by 35m or 12.4% to 321m 2012: 286m.
now the largest supplier of building materials in the Adjusted earnings per share rose by 14.3% to uK and during 2013 it joined the FTSE 100 for the 103.6p 2012: 90.6p.
first time in its history.
I would like to place on record As the builders merchanting market starts to my own thanks to Geoff for his leadership and grow, the Groups working capital requirements support and I am sure that shareholders, colleagues increase.
Even so, despite increases in both capital and other stakeholders in the Group will join me in investment and returns to shareholders, the Group wishing him well for the future.
continued its recent trend of reducing debt levels.
At john Carter, who became Chief Executive on 31 December net debt was 348m, some 104m 1 january, is an ideal replacement for Geoff.
he has lower than at the previous year-end 2012: 452m.
extensive knowledge and experience of the building STRATEGIC REPORT ChaiRMaNS STaTEMENT materials industry and is widely respected by his OutlOOK 14 peers.
he has worked in the Travis Perkins group The outlook for 2014 is encouraging.
however, the for over 30 years having started out in the Groups Board will continue to monitor the market carefully Trainee Scheme and is ideally placed to take the for any sign that the recovery may be slowing.
Group into the next phase of its development.
lead indicators suggest that an improvement in last year, the Board announced the impending the level of housing transactions is well underway retirement of Chris Bunker.
he stepped down with mortgage approvals increasing and consumer from the Board in November having served as a confidence improving although still negative.
non-executive director for a little over 9 years.
Philip End-user markets are also showing improving signs jansen, who has been a director of the Company for and our analysis suggests that in 2014 only new just over four years, retired from the Board in May build in the public sector will continue to contract.
Both Chris and Philip After several years of following a policy of have been constant sources of wise counsel to the targeting investment towards those projects with Board and will be missed.
They retire with the thanks very short payback periods and maintaining strong of the Board.
control over costs the Board is now sufficiently Christopher Rogers joined the Board as a confident in the markets prospects to increase non-executive director on 1 September 2013. he investment for the future.
The Board therefore has held senior positions in a number of companies expects capital expenditure to increase to around and so brings a wealth of experience to the Group.
This investment in A key challenge facing the Board in the coming new stores, implants, supply chain and IT along year is to ensure that we have an equally strong and with the network restructuring in the P&h division experienced group of non-executive directors, as will also incur additional operating expenditure.
john Coleman and Andrew Simon complete their The Group will continue to devolve responsibility nine years service, in 2014 and 2015 respectively.
to its divisions, whilst evolving the Groups portfolio model and increasing the focus on returns on capital emplOYeeS employed at divisional, business and branch level.
The success of the Group is founded on the quality This approach should enable the Group to extend its of the people it employs.
The results for 2013 are market leading positions.
testament once again to the many thousands of For the coming year the Board is encouraged by colleagues who work throughout the Group.
I would the many positive lead indicators for construction like to thank them all for their commitment during and trade markets.
however, it is also cognisant that the year to the success of the business.
stimulus measures may be withdrawn and that retail spending remains fragile with customers looking for value when deciding to invest in their homes.
Robert Walker Chairman 25 February 2014 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 15 Kelly harris, showroom sales manager, City Plumbing STRATEGIC REPORT
