Strategic Report Chairmans statement Dame Helen Alexander Chairman Dear Shareholder, it, and used an innovative scenario planning process in assessing the associated risks.
UBM is now more clearly focused as an events-led B2B marketing and communications We are focused on creating long-term service provider, following the sale of the value for shareholders.
As a Board we seek dataservices businesses in April 2013 and shareholder views and, in order to enhance therestructuring of our Marketing our understanding of them, we commissioned Servicesoperations.
an independent investor survey during the latter part of the year.
New regulations in the In 2013 I visited more of our operations financial marketplace mirror our own aims to and tradeshows in North America, China, reduce complexity, to clarify communication, Continental Europe, India and South America, to be transparent and to report in a balanced and encountered very capable, energetic way.
The Board has reviewed the process and experienced teams in all those centres.
by which we produce our Annual Report Many of these people have taken part in and Accounts and is satisfied that, taken as UBMs leadership development programmes, a whole, they provide a fair, balanced and 1 Underlying revenue growth and our staff survey results confirm that understandable assessment of the Groups they are highly engaged in the business, position as at 31 December 2013. as are the people who report to them.
The calibre of these individuals shows that we Following analysis with our advisers and 3.7% are successfully attracting and developing engagement with shareholders, we are talent.
As an advocate of gender diversity recommending a new remuneration in business, Iam also pleased that in 2013 framework which is clearer, simpler and Fully diluted Adjusted EPS the proportion of women in management more closely aligned with performance.
The positions continued to increase.
The initiatives Directors Remuneration Report, on page 44, related to corporate culture and our people are provides more detail on this.
important for our long-term strategy.
53.6p The Nomination Committee has also been Our Board evaluation shows a number of busy during 2013, particularly since David areas where the Board has improved its Levin informed the Board in September of performance.
We keep up-to-date with all his decision to step down as CEO.
areas of the business through regular visits and his appointment as President and Chief presentations from business managers.
The Executive Officer of McGraw-Hill Education Board takes the management of our portfolio in New York, Davids departure from UBM and allocation of resources very seriously, will be effective as of 1 March 2014.
I would and particularly those decisions about which like to take this opportunity to thank David geographies and sectors to invest in, and which for his commitment to UBM and wish him media to focus on.
For example, when the every success in the future.
He has led the Board reviewed our events business in China, remarkable transformation of the Company into we looked at the market and our position in a focused, international events-led marketing Our new remuneration framework is clearer, simpler and more closely aligned with performance.
02 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Were making progress inour vision of becoming the leading events-led B2Bmarketing and communications provider.
communications business, during a time of huge change in the media industry.
He has successfully laid the foundations for UBMs next phase of development.
I am very pleased to confirm that the Board Tim Cobbold will join UBM Tim Cobbold has appointed Tim Cobbold as our new CEO as ChiefExecutive on with effect from 6 May.
Tim joins us from 6May 2014. security printers fide La Rue where he has served as CEO since 2011, and I am looking forward very much to working with him.
I will become Executive Chairman for the few weeks between Davids departure and Tims arrival.
We have successfully recruited John McConnell as a new Non-Executive Director who will assume the role of Audit Committee Chairman on 1 March 2014, taking over from Tim was previously Chief Jonathan Newcomb, who will remain on Chloride operates in Continental Executive at fide La Rue, an theBoard.
Europe, Asia, US, Middle East international business employing and Australia.
4,000 people in more than 150 Karen Thomson will leave the Board After graduating from Imperial countries covering the Africa, Asia, on31March 2014, having served as an College with a degree in Continental Europe, Latin America, independent Non-Executive Director since Mechanical Engineering, Middle East and the USA.
I thank her warmly for her support and Tim qualified as a Chartered His previous roles included UK for her great contribution to the Board, and Accountant with Price engineering group TI Group and also during the process of appointment of a Waterhouse.
Chloride Group plc, where he new CEO.
UBM is a high-quality international business and we are making progress in our vision of becoming the leading events-led B2B marketing and communications provider.
In 2013 we delivered 3.7% underlying revenue growth while continuing fully diluted adjusted EPS increased by 12.8% to 53.6p.
Im excited to be part of UBM and look forward to further progress in 2014.
Dame Helen Alexander Chairman UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 03
