CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A continued focus: Driving operational excellence Kelvin Dushnisky, Chairman of the Board ef!ciency, cost control and drive sustainable returns for Dear Shareholders, our investors.
With this in mind, the Board established 2013 was a challenging year for the gold the following priorities for the year: meeting cost reduction targets established in the Operational Review: industry, in which we experienced an annual strengthening our Board and management team: and driving decline in the gold price for the !first time in focus on operational excellence.
I am pleased to report we thirteen years.
African Barrick Gold was have made solid progress in all of these areas.
ahead of many of its peers in adapting to this Improvements in operational performance situation, having initiated a comprehensive We exceeded the top of our 2013 production guidance range of 600,000 ounces of gold, producing 641,931 ounces, and Operational Review in January, before accomplished this at a cash cost of US$827 per ounce, the signi!cant fall in the gold price.
As a 12% below the bottom of our cost guidance range.
result, we were able to respond quickly and As part of an industry-wide initiative driven by the World decisively to reshape the business and ensure Gold Council, we began reporting our All-in Sustaining Costs ABG is well positioned to thrive in any gold AISC in 2013.
This provides a standardised metric and a more robust measure of the true cost of producing an price environment.
We are pleased to report a 14% year on year When I became Chairman in February 2013, I accepted the decrease in our per ounce AISC.
I am also pleased to note position with great enthusiasm.
I was well aware of the that our AISC declined in each successive quarter of 2013, challenges facing the business, but also of the quality with fourth quarter AISC being US$1,171 per ounce.
In of the asset base and the potential for the Company to addition, we exceeded our cost savings target by delivering improve.
Our Operational Review was central to our US$129 million of savings by the end of 2013, with a activities in 2013 and re-examined every aspect of our further US$56 million of savings due in 2014. business.
Our objectives were to improve operating 2 www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT I fully anticipate that the operational improvement KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2013 measures being implemented by the ABG management team will make a signi!cant contribution to improved performance throughout 2014 and beyond.
Ensure Delivery on the Corporate governance Operational Review In 2013 we welcomed four new independent Directors to the Board.
Peter Tomsett, Graham Clow, Rachel English and Steve Lucas joined as independent Non-Executive Directors, Strengthen the Leadership of the Company with Peter assuming the role of Senior Independent Director.
Peter and Graham are seasoned mining executives with wide-ranging experience in technical and operational mining matters across all aspects of the industry.
Rachel and Steve are experienced !finance executives who both have Drive Focus on held a variety of senior positions in the extractives sector.
Operational Excellence Steve and Rachel have also served as Board members of a number of prominent UK-listed companies, with operations in Africa and around the world.
We are delighted that Peter, Graham, Rachel and Steve have joined us.
Individually and collectively, they bring signi!cant experience and knowledge Therefore, the Board has recommended the payment to our business.
of a !final dividend for 2013 of US2.0 cents per share, representing two thirds of the total dividend payable in Acting Chairman Derek Pannell departed in 2013 to respect of 2013 of US3.0 cents per share.
He helped shape ABG as an independently listed company and, on behalf of the Outlook Board, I would like to thank Derek for his contributions.
In We made signi!cant progress in 2013 in reshaping the August, Greg Hawkins stepped down as the Companys CEO.
As a result, we are well-positioned for success Greg managed the Company through the listing process and even in a lower gold price environment.
As an independently during its formative stages as a public company, for which we listed company, with Barrick as a majority shareholder, we thank him and wish him well in his future endeavours.
More maintain the full support and resources of the worlds recently, David Hodgson has decided to not stand for largest gold mining company, while having a strong mandate re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
We to operate as an independent, nimble and ef!cient African would like to thank David for his contribution to the Company gold producer.
and wish him well for the future.
Looking forward to 2014, we expect to see further Management renewal improvements in our business as we continue to drive During the year, we recalibrated the Companys senior ef!ciencies and streamline our activities.
I am con!dent management team to further drive the business in the that the Company has the team and resources in place to context of our revised strategic priorities.
In August, continue on a path of operational excellence.
following a comprehensive global search, we appointed Bradley Gordon as the Companys CEO.
Brad is a seasoned On behalf of the Board, I sincerely thank all ABG operator, with deep technical and executive experience employees for their hard work and dedication over the across diverse mining environments and a proven track past year.
I would also like to thank our shareholders who record of delivering the full potential from operations under have shown tremendous support and patience as we have his direction.
Immediately after joining the Company, Brad reshaped the Company.
assumed direct responsibility for the operations as COO, in addition to his role as CEO.
In April, former CFO Kevin Jennings departed to pursue other interests and we appointed Andrew Wray to the position of CFO.
Andrew has been an integral member of the senior management team from the Companys Kelvin Dushnisky, inception and led the Operational Review.
His skills and Chairman of the Board experience will continue to add signi!cant value in his new role, which he has assumed seamlessly.
Final dividend for 2013 While our operational performance in 2013 was stronger than the previous year, the decline in the gold price has placed some pressure on ABGs !financial performance.
We continue to believe it is important to reward the ongoing support of our shareholder base, while being mindful of the importance of maintaining our strong balance sheet.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3 Brad Gordon, Chief Executive Of!cer 4 www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT My mandate is to drive operational excellence at ABG.
Together, with the senior leaders of this business, we have a clear vision with focused priorities to take our operational optimisation further and faster.
I will use my knowledge, skills & experience to drive sustainable shareholder returns.
