48 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report Governance Chairmans Governance Statement Ultra is committed to effective corporate governance.
Having the right people, doing the right things and in the right way, is at the core of Ultras compliance framework.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 49 Corporate Governance Report Ultras strategic framework Ultra is committed to effective corporate Having the right people in the right roles governance.
Having the right people, doing extends to Ultras Board, which is the right things and in the right way, is at composed of individuals from a wide range the core of Ultras compliance framework.
of professional and sector experience.
This The Board sets the tone for ethical standards ensures that we have a truly balanced across the Group.
High standards of Board, with the right skills and experience integrity and ethical behaviour are expected to contribute to, and challenge, decisionfrom every employee.
During the year, Mary Waldner responsibility, authority and accountability joined the Board as the Group Finance and an established commitment of Director.
Mary has a broad range of delivering on our promises, promote and experience in a number of sectors and an endorse this behaviour.
excellent track record of achievement.
During the year, the Board has been Last year, I wrote to Ultras major engaged in ensuring the Groups shareholders advising them that, in view of governance framework meets the changes the change of Financial Director and introduced by the September 2012 edition internal auditors in the year, the Board had of the UK Corporate Governance Code the decided to extend Mr Chris Baileys tenure, Code and the Large and Medium-sized as Non-Executive Director, into a tenth Companies and Groups Accounts and year.
He will continue as Chair of the Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Remuneration, Audit and Nominations the Regulations.
The strength of our Committees.
Chris is a highly-experienced, embedded governance framework and our former large plc Finance Director, who underlying processes mean, in the main, brings vital specialist and general only changes in how we report the Boards management expertise to Ultras Board.
He activities within the Annual Report and will provide continuity and risk reduction Accounts, are required.
These changes can of the finance function during this period.
been seen in our Audit Committee Report The Board expects to appoint a replacement on page 60, our Directors Remuneration finance specialist Non-Executive Director to Report on page 63 and the Strategic seek election at the Annual General Report on pages 4 to 47.
Our additional Meeting in the spring of 2015. reporting includes the statement, made by the Directors on pages 58 and 59, that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and providing the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The processes which underpin and support the Directors confidence in making this statement which are explained in this Corporate Governance Report are long-established and fully embedded in Douglas Caster CBE, Chairman Ultras governance framework.
