| 12 aveva Group plc annual report 2013 directors report chairmans statement Philip aiken | Chairman We delivered a record set of results, both in terms of revenue and profit, by continuing to provide worldclass engineering software and solutions to our global customer base.
suMMary oF revIew revIew z overvIew I am delighted to be involved In my first year as Chairman, I am pleased to report another z with such an exciting, worldclass strong performance for AVEVA during 2012 13, reflecting our company which continues to benefit market leading position in engineering design and information from a global platform, exposure to management solutions for the oil & Gas, Power and marine developing markets and worldbeating industries worldwide.
i joined aveva at the beginning of the technology and innovation 2012 13 financial year and I am delighted to be involved with such an exciting, worldclass company which continues to benefit from a global platform, exposure to developing markets and worldbeating technology and innovation.
In enterprise Solutions we set clear z these results are a testament to the hard work of all aveva targets for the year to deliver both employees around the world.
in particular, a notable milestone growth and profitability, and we were was achieved during the year as our enterprise solutions business very pleased to report success on grew more than 30% and moved into profitability for the first time.
both fronts another major achievement for the Group was the launch of aveva everything3d aveva e3d in october 2012, the most significant new product release that AVEVA, or the engineering design industry as a whole, has seen for many years.
From a technology perspective z it has been a most exciting year and our engineering & design systems business also delivered good we continue to build on our leadership growth, and we were able to expand the breadth of our product position.
we have delivered the offering, both organically and through the strategic acquisitions successful commercial launch of of bocad in may 2012 and Global majic in december 2012, further aveva e3D deepening our relationships with our customers, in line with our longterm strategy.
key FInancIaLs The Board is proposing to return z 100 million to shareholders in the form aveva delivered record revenue for the year in 2012 13 of of a special dividend, subject to approval 220.2 million 2012 195.9 million, up 12% on the same at the aGm period a year ago.
this was driven by strong revenue growth and excellent execution in enterprise solutions and further expansion in engineering & design systems.
Adjusted profit before tax grew by 13% to 70.7 million 2012 62.3 million and we achieved an adjusted profit margin of 32% 2012 32%, whilst still maintaining our investment in the business as planned.
Profit before tax for the year was 63.6 million 2012 57.7 million.
Adjusted basic earnings per share amounted to 74.9 pence, an increase of 17% over the prior year 2012 63.8 pence.
Basic earnings per share was 67.0 pence 2012 58.9 pence.
com | directors report annual report 2013 aveva Group plc 13 aveva continues to maintain a strong balance sheet and roLe oF the BoarD remains highly cash generative.
we closed the year with more we have revamped our board agenda to put more emphasis than 190 million of cash 2012 179.0 million and no debt.
This on the Groups key areas of focus such as our technology plan, was after investing 12.5 million on the acquisitions of bocad and strategy and people.
AVEVA has grown significantly in recent Global majic and after paying 14.6 million in dividends.
years and has a great future and i see the role of the board as supporting and reviewing our growth strategy.
the balance operatIons between delivering shortterm performance and investing for future growth is a challenge for any organisation and one where in our core engineering & design systems division, revenue grew I believe the Board has a significant role to play in working with 10% to a record 189.5 million 2012 172.5 million driven and supporting the executive team.
by sustained demand from our engineering, Procurement and construction ePc customers where we continue to expand our footprint within key accounts.
prospects in enterprise solutions we set clear targets for the year to deliver aveva has worldbeating technology and products, strong both growth and profitability, and we were very pleased to report underlying market drivers, a truly international breadth of operations, success on both fronts.
Revenue increased by 31% to 30.7 million longterm customer relationships, as well as a highly dedicated 2012 23.5 million which delivered a contribution of 2.0 million and expert team.
The Group has significant opportunities to 2012 loss of 4.4 million.
continue to deliver strong growth in the future.
technoLogy from a technology perspective it has been a most exciting year and we continue to build on our leadership position.
we have delivered the successful commercial launch of aveva e3d, a major PHiLiP aiKen new platform focused on Plant design for Lean construction, which chairman we believe will create significant efficiencies for our customers 23 may 2013 and raise the competitive benchmark for the plant design industry.
in addition to this, we have released a number of other exciting new products in the schematics and enterprise solutions portfolios.
we also continue to add to our technology capabilities through acquisition, with bocad and Global majic both being acquired during the year.
DIvIDenDs The Board is recommending a final dividend of 19.5 pence 2012 17.0 pence, an increase of 15% over the prior year.
this gives a full year dividend of 24 pence 2012 21.0 pence when combined with the interim dividend of 4.5 pence announced earlier in the year, gives an increase of 14% over last year.
subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 26 July 2013 to shareholders on the register on 21 June 2013. return oF capItaL aveva is committed to generating returns for our shareholders whilst maintaining a strong balance sheet to provide adequate resources for future investment and growth.
in light of the Groups strong performance and strong cash generation over many years, the board is proposing the return of cash to shareholders of approximately 100 million in the form of a special dividend which is expected to be paid in august 2013. the board is also recommending the special dividend is accompanied by a share consolidation to maintain, as far as possible, the comparability of the share price before and after the special dividend.
the special dividend and share consolidation will be subject to shareholder approval at the aGm on 9 July 2013. the exdividend, record and payment dates for the special dividend and the share consolidation factor will be set out in the aGm circular for shareholders.
peopLe aveva continues to have a team of highly skilled and dedicated employees who are the driving force behind the success of the Group and the strong performance in 2012 13. on behalf of the board i would like to thank everyone at the company for their excellent contribution and commitment.
overview business review governAnce finAnciAls
