Vesuvius plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 chairmans Statement A successful first year for Vesuvius plc I am pleased to be able to report on a successful Our strategy, which remains consistent with that first year for Vesuvius plc theCompany.
There set out at the time of the demerger, is to capitalise is no doubt that your Company has benefited on our leading position in molten metal flow from the independent status and greater focus it engineering to create sustainable shareholder has enjoyed since its creation as a result of the value.
We aim to do this by: demerger of Cookson Group in December 2012. reinforcing our technology and innovation This is reflected both in our very solid trading leadership positions performance and in the strategic progress achieved.
enlarging our addressable markets through the increasing penetration of existing and new Since the demerger, the Board has taken value-creating solutions important further steps structurally to transform leveraging our strong positions in developing the business.
In the first quarter of 2013, we markets to capture the growth opportunities completed the restructuring of the Fused Silica that they represent business and in May we completed the disposal of the Precious Metals Processing division.
As improving our cost leadership and our a result, Vesuvius is now a fully focused molten margins, and metal engineering company, principally serving building organically, and where appropriate the global steel and foundry industries.
We enjoy through carefully evaluated acquisitions, global leadership positions in those markets, John McDonough CBE an increasingly comprehensive product and providing technologically advanced products Chairman technical services offering.
and services that are critical to our customers efficiency and therefore their profitability.
Our flexible business model is capable of delivering attractive levels of profit and cash over The benefits of this greater focus and strong the cycle and in the face of changing market competitive positioning can be seen in our conditions.
Firm financial and capital discipline is financial results for 2013.
Against stable but a central strategic priority.
relatively subdued market conditions overall, our profit performance improved over the prior year Further detail on our strategy, and on its with, importantly, our margins benefiting from execution during 2013, is set out within the the internal performance improvement initiatives Strategic Report on pages 10 to 47. that have been implemented.
Cash generation Dividend remained strong, and our balance sheet is robust.
The Board has recommended a final dividend Strategy of 10.25 pence per share for 2013.
This would The Board is responsible for setting the strategic result in a total dividend for the year of 15 pence direction of your Company, and for ensuring per share, an increase on Vesuvius share of that the business model, remuneration and the full year Cookson Group dividend for 2012 all associated key performance indicators are of 5.3%.
The final dividend, if approved at the aligned to its successful delivery.
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 23 May 2014 to shareholders on the register at 25 April 2014. www.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 07 Vesuvius is a cash generative and well-invested The Board is committed to embedding the Board Composition business.
Our dividend policy aims to deliver right culture throughout the Group and the A substantially new Board of Directors was long-term dividend growth, provided that Companys Code of Conduct clearly sets out the appointed in late 2012 as a result of the this is supported by underlying earnings, cash values and behaviour that we expect from all our demerger and strengthened further on 1 March flows, capital expenditure requirements and the people.
Further details are set out on page 39 of 2013 by the appointment of Nelda Connors as a prevailing market outlook.
Having served nine years as Non-executive Directors of Cookson Group plc Capital Discipline Annual General Meeting prior to the demerger, both John Sussens and Jan The Annual General Meeting will be held at Alongside dividends, capital discipline plays a Oosterveld retired from the Board, as planned, 11.00 am on 15 May 2014 at the Lincoln Centre, part in our commitment to delivering superior at the close of the Annual General Meeting on 4 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London.
The Notice of the returns to our shareholders.
I would like to thank them for their Meeting and explanatory notes accompany this the disposal of the Precious Metals Processing considerable contribution to the successful startAnnual Report.
I look forward to the opportunity division for 56.8 million in May 2013, the up of Vesuvius plc.
John Sussens was succeeded to meet as many of our shareholders as possible Company returned some 30 million of those as Senior Independent Director by Jeff Hewitt at that time.
proceeds to shareholders by way of an onand as Chair of the Remuneration Committee market share repurchase programme which Our People by Jane Hinkley.
There have been no further concluded in September, with the balance Our success over the past year has been in changes to the Board since that date.
With our being applied to the reduction of net debt.
large part down to the talent and efforts of our strong diversity and appropriate mix of skills and Consequently, during the year we returned people.
We continue to invest in our people in experience, I am confident that the Board has 70 million to shareholders as a result of the their training, development see pages 39 to operated effectively in its first full year.
payment of dividends and the repurchase of our 43, and in their health and safety on which In September 2013, Henry Knowles was shares.
we continue to place increasing emphasis, as appointed as Company Secretary and General reported on pages 32 and 33.
In December, we further strengthened our Counsel, succeeding Richard Malthouse.
On financial position through the issue of On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank behalf of the Board, I thank Richard for his c. US$100 million of US Private Placement all our people for their significant contribution important contribution to the Company over loan notes with a good mix of maturities out to a very successful first year as a stand-alone many years.
With our balance sheet strength and company.
The composition, responsibilities and operation cash generative characteristics, we remain in a of the Board, and Directors Biographies are set strong position to fund attractive future growth out within the Governance Report on pages 54 opportunities.
John McDonough CBE to 60 and 50 to 51, respectively.
Chairman Reporting Governance The Board has concluded that this Annual 4 March 2014 The Board is responsible for setting Group Report is fair, balanced and understandable, strategy and charging the executive with and that it provides the necessary information the delivery of that strategy, including the for shareholders to assess the Groups strategy, management of resources and associated risks business model and performance, as well as our and controls.
Given the broad international approach to and performance in the important spread of the business, the Board considers that areas of gender diversity, human rights, risk management is a significant priority and environmental impact and specifically our direct consequently places considerable emphasis on carbon emissions.
Further detail on these can this area within its overall governance agenda.
be found within the Strategic Report referred to above.
Throughout 2013 we have operated under a robust governance structure which also complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We continue to evolve our governance arrangements to comply with emerging best practice and we firmly believe that strong corporate governance is central to the delivery of sustainable long-term shareholder value.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 Vesuvius plc 08 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www www.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 09 09 Stra strategic tegIc r report eport STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Review 10 Financial Review 13 Key Performance Indicators 17 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 18 Strategy 20 The Vesuvius Business Model 22 Steel Division 24 Foundry Division 29 Safety 32 Innovation 34 Lean Manufacturing 36 Quality 37 Corporate Responsibility 39 Our Values 40 Human Resources 41 Sustainability 44 The Strategic Report set out on pages 10 to 47 contains a fair review of our businesses, our strategy, our business model and the associated principal risks and uncertainties.
We also deliver a review of our performance during our first full year as an independent company and set out an overview of our markets.
Details of our people, values and approach to Corporate Responsibility are also contained in the report.
This section shows how we are well positioned to grow and to deliver superior returns to shareholders.
Franois Wanecq Chris OShea Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Picture: Magnum Photos www.
