governance governance Board of Directors Introduction from the Chairman To our shareholders and stakeholders We as a Board of Directors are committed to the principles of good governance.
We believe these principles form the foundations for the long-term success of the Company, enabling us to achieve ourstrategy and growth aims for thefuture.
Our Corporate Governance Report is set out Anita Frew David Hummel onpages 41 to47.
This section of the annual 1 4 Non-executive Chairman BA MPhil Chief Executive BSc report sets out how wemanage the Group Anita Frew was appointed to the Board David Hummel assumed responsibility for andcomply with the provisions oftheUK in2000 and became Chairman in 2008.
VICTREXPEEK worldwide in 1992 and has Corporate Governance Code.
It also outlines Sheisalso Chairman of the Nominations more than25 years of experience of the anygovernance initiatives undertaken in the year.
Anita has over 15years global high performance polymer industry.
Keyareas of focus this year include succession experience as a plc director and has been Formerly with Diamond Shamrock, GE planning, strengthening our management team anon-executive director of industrial and Plastics and ICI, David wasappointed to financial companies for over 12 years.
She theBoard in 1993 following thesuccessful and governance structures to resource our business was formerly a non-executive director of MBO of Victrex from ICI.
He hasservedas to drive forward delivery ofour strategy and Northumbrian Water, executive director Chief Executive of Victrex since that time, evaluating the management ofboard meetings atAbbott Mead Vickers plc, Director of overseeing strategic decision making and including the quantum and appropriateness Corporate Development at WPPGroup plc, daytodaymanagement and leadership ofinformation received.
and held various investment andmarketing ofthebusiness.
roles at Scottish Provident and Royal Bank The updated Corporate Governance Code ofScotland in her early career.
ofSeptember2012 the Code brought some additionalreporting and compliance requirements.
In addition to Victrex, Anita currently serves on theboard of three FTSE 100 companies.
She is These include enhanced consideration of matters seniorindependent director of Aberdeen Asset such as board diversity and extra reporting Management plc and a non-executive director requirements forAudit Committees.
We have ofIMIplc and Lloyds Banking Group plc.
given these matters our fullest attention at Board and the appropriate Committee meetings.
We remain cognisant of the strong relationship between ethics and governance and the role the Board plays in demonstrating ethical leadership.
Inthe current year, we have launched our Victrex Global Code of Conduct.
This formalises on a global basis, the ethics that are fundamental to the way we already conduct our business.
We believe that thisdemonstrates our commitment to operating ethically, demonstrating integrity and acting responsibly for both our shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Further information on ethics and social responsibility is contained in our Steve Barrow Tim Cooper Sustainability Report on pages 23 to 36.
4 4 Finance Director BSc FCA Executive Director BA Hons As part of our annual Board evaluation, we assessed Steve Barrow was appointed as Group Tim Cooper was appointed to the Board in how we work as a Board, our skills, ourdiversity and Finance Director in October 2011, from his October 2012, and continues in the position how we operate.
The process we undertook and previous positionas Finance Director for the of Managing Director of VPS, a position he VPS business unit.
Steve joined Victrex from has held since joining Victrex in January 2010. planned actions arecovered onpage 44.
KPMG in 1995 to leadand develop the finance Tim has over 30 years of international Finally, I am pleased to report that except in one function for the Group.
Steve has been a key business management and commercial limited respect, we have complied in full with member of the Group Senior Management experience, having held senior leadership theprovisions of the Code.
Our Statement of team for many years, developing an in-depth positions inanumber of industries.
Prior to knowledge of the business and playing an joining Victrex, Timwas with Umeco Plc, Compliance is set out on page 41. active role in strategy and organisational initially as managing director of Aerovac development.
Steve is Chairmanofthe Systems Ltd, later as group managing director CurrencyCommittee.
of Umeco Composites Process Materials.
He was also managing director of Tellermate Plc and of Avery Berkel Ltd. Tims international Anita Frew career was developed through a number Chairman ofroles held with GEC, BP and Land Rover.
9 December 2013 38 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Patrick fide Smedt Giles Kerr Pamela Kirby 1, 2, 3 1, 2, 3 1,2, 3 Non-executive Director BSc MSc Non-executive Director BA FCA Non-executive Director BSc PhD Patrick fide Smedt was appointed in 2008 Giles Kerr was appointed in 2006.
Giles Pamela Kirby was appointed in 2011.
Pamela and is Chairman of the Remuneration isChairman of the Audit Committee and has detailed knowledge of the international Committee.
His career includes over 20 years Senior Independent Director.
Giles has a pharmaceutical industry, and was formerly with Microsoft Corporation, culminating in strong financial background and commercial CEO of Quintiles Transnational Corporation his appointment as Chairman of Microsoft experience within the pharmaceutical industry.
based in North Carolina, USA.
Pamela has Europe, Middle East and Africa in 2003.
He has formerly held the position of finance also held a number of other senior positions Patrick has previously worked with early stage director at Amersham plc and was previously in the international pharmaceutical industry, ventures in addition to large, established a partner at Arthur Andersen.
including AstraZeneca plc, where she was a multi-nationals.
Hehas an in-depth regional director and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Giles is the finance director of Oxford knowledge of international markets, Ltd. where she wastheir director of strategic University and non-executive director of Elan technology and diverse industry sectors.
She Corporation plc, BTG plc and Senior plc.
was previously non-executive chairman of Patrick is senior independent director Oxford Immunotec Limited and non-executive ofMorgan Sindall plc and Anite plc, and director of Novo Nordisk A S. non-executive director of Easynet Global Services Ltd. Pamela is chairman of Scynexis Inc, a non-executive director of Smith and Nephew He is an investor in several European plc and DCC plc and senior independent technologycompanies.
Lawrence Pentz Suzana Koncarevic Key to committees 1 Nominations Committee Non-executive Director BS ChE General Counsel andCompany 1, 2, 3, 4 4 2 Audit Committee MBA Secretary BBus LLB MBA 3 Remuneration Committee Lawrence Pentz was appointed in 2008 and Suzana Koncarevic was appointed to the 4 Risk Management Committee is Chairman of the Risk Committee.
He has position of General Counsel and Company over 30years service within multi-national Secretary in April 2012.
Suzana has a corporations inavariety of operational and corporate and commercial law background, general management positions.
He has having previously held the position of extensive experience in developing strategy general counsel and company secretary at for and successfully leading international Speedy Hire plc.
She has also held the growth businesses.
Lawrence has been position of senior legal adviser at United instrumental in theacquisition and Utilities Group plc.
Suzanas career also integration of multiple catalyst and chemical includes previous experience as a corporate companies for Johnson Matthey plc, and was lawyer at both Herbert Smith in London and formerly the executive director responsible for DLA Phillips Fox in Sydney, Australia.
Lawrence is an executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc, responsible for their process technologies and fine chemicals divisions.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 39 Executive Management Executive Management A strong management team is in place to support our future growth.
Picture above: Victrexs Executive Management Team left to right MartinCourt, Kenny Gilmour, John Devine, Carolyn MacNab, SuzanaKoncarevic, Tim Cooper, David Hummel, Steve Barrow Martin Court BSc Eng, PhD John Devine BSc PhD Our executive Invibio Managing Director Emerging Business Director team oversees the Martin joined Victrex in February 2013 John joined the Company in 1999. fromCytec Industries Inc, where he was the Hehasheld a number of internal senior implementation of the Vice President of the in process separation roles including Marketing and Technology strategy set by the Board.
business unit based in New Jersey.
Prior to Director at Invibio.
He is a named inventor this, he held the position of Vice President on a number of patented inventions, is It comprises the Chief of R&D in Brussels.
He has also held a afrequent contributor to papers at key Executive, Group Finance number of senior research and development biomaterials and industry conferences, management roles both at ICI and UCB.
andhas authored numerous peer reviewed Director and Managing Martin is an INSEAD alumni, holds a articles.
John has previously held roles in Director of VPS, who are doctorate in the field of surface chemistry research and development with Invibio and fracture mechanics and a BSc Eng andin product development with Victrex.
executive Directors, our degree in mineral technology from Imperial He holds a doctorate in the field of organic General Counsel and College of Science and Technology.
polymer synthesis and structure property relationships from the University of Company Secretary St. Andrews and a degree inchemistry their biographies are fromthe University of Glasgow.
on pages 38 and 39 and Kenny Gilmour BEng Carolyn MacNab BA Hons, MSc, FCIPD the following executives: Operations Director Group Human Resources Director Kenny joined Victrex in 2010 from Hempel Carolyn was appointed Group HR Director Paints where he was Supply Chain Director for of Victrex in February 2013.
Prior to joining the Middle East region, based in Dubai.
Prior Victrex, Carolyn held the position of Global tothis he was Manufacturing and Supply Chain HR Director at The LateRooms Group, part Director for the European Operations of Arch of Tui Travel Plc.
Over her career Carolyn has Chemicals.
Kenny has also worked with ICI, held both commercial and HR leadership AstraZeneca and Avecia and his experience positions in a variety of industries and includes leadership roles in engineering, project organisations such as GUS plc and SSL plc management, operations and supply chain.
Carolyn holds a Kenny was also Managing Director of a private degree in Business Studies and an MSc in equity backed SME operating in the UK life Strategic Human Resource Management.
He holds a BEng in Mechanical Engineering from Heriot-Watt University.
40 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
