Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A DIVERSE BUSINESS ABLE TO CAPTURE GLOBAL OPPORTUNITIES We are proposing a final dividend payment to shareholders of 33.2p per share, making 42.0p per share for the full year, an increase of 11% in line with our commitment to a double-digit dividend increase in 2013.
This is the 30th consecutive year of dividend growth for the Group and the 8th consecutive year of double-digit growth.
I took over as Chairman on 1 January 2014, succeeding Lord Smith of Kelvin, who had been in the role for 11 years.
Robert was an outstanding Chairman of Weir and I wish to record the Boards appreciation for his deft and wise leadership, as well as my personal thanks for his advice and friendship during my time as Deputy Chairman.
It is worth briefly reflecting on the development of the Group during Lord Smiths tenure into a highly-focussed, high margin engineering group operating in the structural growth markets of minerals, oil and gas, and power.
This has delivered a ten-year total shareholder return of almost 1,000% one of the best performances in the FTSE 100 an index which Weir joined during Lord Smiths time as Chairman.
Despite challenging trading conditions, Weirs diverse end market and It was fitting that on his last day as Chairman he was appointed by the Queen as a Knight of the Thistle, geographical exposure underpinned the highest honour in Scotland.
Revenues were down 4% at 2.4bn, with pre-tax Strength from our diversity In preparing for assuming my responsibilities as profits from continuing operations, Chairman, I have visited many of our operations around before exceptional items and intangibles the world.
Doing this has allowed me to see our strategy amortisation, of 418m, a 5% decrease and business model in action and appreciate how well positioned this Group is to address current and on 2012. future challenges.
One source of strength is our diversity.
By serving the end markets of mining, oil and gas and power, we are exposed to different capital expenditure cycles, operating environments and geographies.
These opportunities are captured by a business model which provides resilience a point reinforced by our solid 2013 performance which was ahead of our end markets.
Changing market dynamics in minerals meant a significant reduction in capital expenditure by mining companies.
Our business was quick to respond: further extending into adjacent markets: selling an increasing suite of products: and capturing the aftermarket opportunities from a growing installed base.
6 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements We benefitted from the Groups industry leading service The safety of our employees and partners is of the utmost network which creates a platform to get closer to our importance to us as a Board and we were all affected by customers and offers an expanded range of products.
the loss of a Weir colleague in a fatality towards the end This route to market was also a source of real competitive of the year.
As a Group, we continue to improve our safety advantage for our Oil & Gas division, both in our largest culture.
Over the course of 2013, the development of the market of North America and in growing international Weir Environmental, Health and Safety System continued, opportunities, where it has leveraged Group resources with key initiatives including the launch of the Weir to best effect.
It contains a number of Group-wide tools to establish consistent standards Overall, this agility allowed us to outperform our key in areas of risk.
Significant resources will continue to be end markets in an environment of reduced spending invested in the people, policies and processes to help on original equipment.
us realise our safety ambitions.
This performance was supported by significant progress The Group has also taken steps to assess our in delivering our strategy.
In each division, we expanded our environmental impacts.
We have introduced a robust, range of products, strengthened partnerships with major Group-wide system to calculate our performance on customers and increased our best cost sourcing capability.
carbon emissions and water usage, which will enable This helped deliver greater value to our customers while us to measure and target energy reduction initiatives operational efficiencies and procurement savings assisted more effectively.
We also made good progress in expanding in adjacent markets, with the acquisition We are also updating our Code of Conduct in order to of Mathena expanding our pressure control offering continue to provide relevant guidance to ensure we in Oil & Gas.
all operate to the highest ethical standards.
Compliance with the Code will continue to be regularly monitored.
In Minerals, the division extended into the circa 1bn comminution segment of the mill processing market As part of the Boards programme of regular visits where materials are crushed, ground and screened across the Group, we spent time in Yorkshire at the providing the next leg of growth even in a capital Weir Minerals plant in Todmorden and the Weir Power constrained world.
These visits are valuable to all members of the Board, adding to our understanding We also continued to develop our engineering and of the operations of the Group and recognising the human resources to support the effective execution contribution our people make to its continuing success.
of our strategy and the achievement of our ambitious I was particularly pleased to see the Todmorden facility growth plans.
As our business has increased in scale win its second Queens Award for outstanding and complexity, it has become even more important achievement in international trade.
to attract and retain the right people to help take advantage of future opportunities.
That is why we I was delighted to welcome Mary Jo Jacobi to the remain committed to helping our employees achieve Board at the beginning of 2014.
Mary Jo has extensive their full potential.
experience in private enterprise and public life in both the US and the UK.
I would like to thank her and all Our Chief Executive, Keith Cochrane, provides a my fellow Board members for their support and look detailed review of the strategy in action from page 10. forward to continuing to work with them in the future.
Our wider commitments On a personal level, I have been struck by the pride Weir is a global business conscious of its obligations and common purpose shared by all Weir colleagues.
We are committed It gives enormous strength to this business and helps to sustainability in the widest possible sense, which explain Weirs record of success over the past 143 years.
means ensuring the business continues to grow in I would like to thank all colleagues for their hard work a way that benefits communities, at the same time as and continued commitment.
managing the environmental impacts associated with an engineering group.
It also gives me great optimism for the future.
2013 has demonstrated that Weir is a Group which is well In 2013, we made a significant economic contribution placed to respond to further challenges in our end through our supply chain and direct support of markets and take advantage of future opportunities.
As a Group operating in dynamic markets, we need to be able to react swiftly to changing That agility, allied to a clear, well executed strategy and conditions.
While this necessitated restructuring in some robust business model, has proved resilient in the past.
businesses, we also invested in growth opportunities and I am confident, as we look forward, it will continue to overall added more than 800 employees, the majority of deliver sustainable and growing returns to shareholders which were as a result of acquisitions.
Our supply chain in the future.
spending was over 1.3bn, and supports businesses in 50 countries.
And this year the Group directly invested almost half a million pounds in charitable activities in the communities where we operate.
Charles Berry Chairman 26 February 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 7
