Directors report and business review Chairmans statement Chairmans statement We continue to focus on creating shareholder value, by growing our Travel business, both in the UK and internationally, and strengthening our core categories across the High Street business.
As your new Chairman, I am pleased to report another year of good performance across the Group.
We did not anticipate any improvement in trading conditions in the year and planned accordingly.
As a result, the Group has once again demonstrated its resilience and ability to deliver in a difficult economic environment.
Creating value for shareholders remains central toour strategy and we continue to grow our Travel business, bothin the UK and internationally, whilst strengthening our core categories across the High Street business.
Henry Staunton Performance Chairman The Group remains highly cash generative with a strong balance sheet as we remain focused on profitability and cash generation across both businesses.
Total revenue for the Group was down five per cent at 1.19bn, with like-for-like sales down five per cent 1 and strong free cash flow of 95m.
Group profit before tax was six per cent ahead of last year at 108m.
This performance has led the Board to recommend a final dividend of 21.3p.
During the year we have returned 50m of cash to shareholders via a share buyback.
On 10 October 2013, the Company also announced its intention to instigate a further share buyback programme of up to 50m.
The Travel business has delivered another good performance with further profit growth.
Despite the economic climate we have continued to grow, demonstrating the strength of the divisions business model.
We continue to invest in the business and have made further good progress in both our established and developing channels.
We identified further opportunities for growth in the UK, opening 30 new units during the year.
In our international markets performance continues to be good, with the WHSmith brand and offer well received by both customers and landlords.
We have made further good progress in a number of international regions, including Australia, India, South-East Asia and the Middle East.
We now have 94 units open in international locations, across four channels, with 141 units won in total.
1 Net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure, pension deficit funding and net interest received.
See Group cash flow statement on page 47 and Note 22 onpage 67.
WH Smith PLC 4 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements High Street has delivered another resilient performance with There have been a number of changes to the Board in the year.
We continue to use our retail space to Walker Boyd, non-executive Chairman, retired from the Board on strengthen our core categories whilst focusing on optimising 31 August 2013.
Walker has served as Chairman since 2010 and margins, controlling costs and delivering the retail basics.
on behalf of the Board I would like to thank him for his valued Wesaw further improvement in gross margin during the year contribution.
I would also like to thank Mike Ellis, who stepped andsuccessful cost control continues with 18m of savings down as a non-executive director on 23 January 2013 after nearly delivered from right across the business.
Cash generation in the eight years valuable service.
Annemarie Durbin, who joined the division continues to be strong.
During the year we invested Board on 3 December 2012, brings 20 years of international further in the High Street estate and we opened four new stores.
retailand commercial banking experience with her.
Suzanne Baxter also joined the Board in the year, on 4 February 2013.
Sustainability Good corporate responsibility CR remains a key focus for the The Group remains highly cash generative business.
In the year, we have made further progress cutting our with a strong balance sheet as we remain carbon emissions, through more efficient in-store lighting and sharing delivery routes with other retailers to reduce the number focused on profitability and cash of vehicles on the road.
We continue to focus our community generation across both businesses.
programmes on promoting literacy and this year we have been able to provide new books to thousands of schoolchildren across Suzanne is a Chartered Accountant and brings extensive the UK.
We were pleased to be awarded the Platinum ranking in commercial and finance expertise.
Suzanne has replaced Mike the Business in the Community CR Index in recognition of our CR Ellis as Chair of the Audit Committee.
My colleagues and I are performance: the sixth year we have held this ranking.
very pleased to be working with both Annemarie and Suzanne.
People Finally, my sincere thanks go to all our staff across the Group: Following nine very successful years as CEO, Kate Swann inthese challenging conditions we rely more than ever on their stepped down in June, and as part of our succession planning, continued commitment and without the ongoing hard work, Kate was replaced by Stephen Clarke, former Managing Director dedication and support of our management teams, staff and of the High Street business.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to suppliers, we could not have achieved these results.
thank Kate for her outstanding contribution to the Group and her Whilst we believe that the Group is well-positioned for the year dedication and leadership which has seen WHSmith grow from ahead, we expect the economic environment to remain uncertain strength to strength and deliver exceptional shareholder value.
and we therefore remain extremely focused on implementing our Iam delighted that Stephen is Kates successor.
been instrumental in the development and execution of our successful strategy and has the qualities and experience to lead Henry Staunton the Company and to continue to deliver excellent shareholder Chairman returns over the years to come.
10 October 2013 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 5
