William Hill PLC 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chairmans sTaTemenT signifiCanT sTraTegiC Progress Through digiTal groWTh and inTernaTional exPansion.
Excluding acquisitions completed during the two-year period and adjusting for the change to Machine Games Duty MGD in Retail, Group net revenue grew 3% 52 1 week basis: 5%.
Group Operating profit grew 1% to 335.0m 52 week basis 3%, despite the lack of a major international football tournament.
Online has again delivered outstanding sports betting growth both in the UK and in key international territories, with Sportsbook amounts wagered up 30% 52 week basis 33%.
we need to ensuRe thAt we hAve the Right blend Basic adjusted earnings per share ofskills, expeRience And knowledge within increased by 6% to 28.8p 2012: 27.2p, williAm hill in oRdeR to mAximise the oppoRtunities adjusted to reflect the rights issue foR the success of the compAny.
Basic earnings per share rose 1% to 25.2p.
The Groups balance sheet remains healthy.
Net debt In 2014 we are celebrating the 80th Positive performance in 2013 for covenant purposes stood at 796m anniversary of William Hill.
Our focused The Group made significant progress on at 31 December 2013, equivalent to 2.0 transformation of the Group over the last our strategy to grow by developing a wider times EBITDA.
A feature of the Group is its five years means William Hill is today one product offering, encouraging greater strong cash generation, which over four of the worlds leading multi-channel betting multi-channel usage and expanding years created sufficient headroom to fund and gaming businesses, with revenues internationally.
This continues to diversify the Sportingbet acquisition predominantly diversified through the rapid growth of our revenue streams: for perspective on through existing debt facilities.
We also Online and through careful expansion the transformation, Online and William saw strong shareholder support for the into selected international markets.
Hill Australia accounted for 36% of net 373m net of expenses rights issue to This accelerated in the last 12 months as 1 revenue and 48% of Operating profit take control ofthe Online business.
we established a second home market in2013, versus 20% and 29% respectively in Australia through the acquisition of in 2009. International markets accounted Dividend Sportingbet andtomwaterhouse.
com and for 15% ofnet revenue, up from 9% took full control of the Online business.
The Board has approved a final dividend in 2009. of 7.9p per share 2012: 7.2p per share 2 Group net revenue increased by 16% after rights issue adjustment, giving a 52week basis 18% to 1,486.5m.
This represents 12% growth, reflecting the results delivered in the 2013 financial year and the Boards confidence in WilliamHills future.
William Hill PLC 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 48% 15% Digital diversification International diversification Online and William Hill Australia We continue to diversify through careful accounted for 36% of Group expansion into selected international net revenue and48% of markets.
These represented 15% of 1 Operating profit in 2013.
08-11 More on Chief Executives overview Acquisitions In April, we completed the acquisition We are one of the most respected names of Playtechs 29% stake in the William in the gambling industry and we continue As part of the Groups strategy to increase Hill Online joint venture, as part of which to work closely with governments, the proportion of its revenues coming we were pleased to be supported by regulators and our peers to facilitate from online and mobile, and to expand shareholders in funding the acquisition responsible gambling by our customers internationally, we completed a number through a 373m rights issue net of and to encourage the application of high ofacquisitions in 2013. expenses.
This was the first opportunity to operating standards across our industry.
In March, we established Australia as take full ownership of this strongly growing There is also an ongoing debate regarding business and it gave the Group increased William Hills second home territory by the clustering of Retail betting shops acquiring Sportingbet plcs Australian strategic and operational flexibility.
We now and our approach to this, including have the freedom to use the expertise businesses.
We also acquired its Spanish the industrys Code for Responsible operation in September.
In total, we paid of our Online colleagues elsewhere in Gambling, is addressed in the Corporate the Group, whether lending their digital 459.4m.
We subsequently acquired Responsibility section on page 40. tomwaterhouse.
com, a smaller Australian expertise to the development of William Hill Australia or working closely with Retail online betting business, in August for In December 2014, the UK Government A$35m 20.5m plus an earnout of up management on opportunities to exploit is expected to introduce a Point our multi-channel offering to customers.
of Consumption tax, following the We have also been able to increase our implementation of a new regulatory regime The Australian online betting market is capital investment in the Online business, in June 2014.
This is expected to change very attractive, growing at c20% per which was 60% higher in 2013, following the make-up of the UK online gambling annum over the last five years and the removal of the previous 20m market significantly given the likely impact projected to grow at a faster rate than contractual cap.
This has enabled us to on industry operating profit margins.
the UK online market over the coming invest, for instance, in developing mobile While it will lead to significant additional years.
Sportingbet was one of the leading offerings forItaly and Spain.
net cost for the Group, we do believe online corporate bookmakers and there is potential for a small number of tomwaterhouse.
com has been one of the large-scale operators, such as William Regulations fastest growing corporate bookmakers Hill, to increase market share through this since it was established in 2010.
The regulation of gambling remains dislocation period.
a source of political debate in many Sportingbet will benefit as we apply the countries, particularly as governments digital capabilities we have developed Outlook seek to amend their regulations to take through our Online business and expand account of the growth of online and Our priorities in the coming year, therefore, into a more mass market customer mobile gambling, and to improve ways continue to be growing our UK online base while tomwaterhouse.
com will ofaddressing problem gambling.
market share by capitalising on the be supported by William Hill Australias structural shift to mobile, both in sports technology platform, operational scale betting and in gaming, and to enhance the and product portfolio in its next phase digitalisation of William Hill Australia to take of development.
advantage of the growth opportunities in online betting in that market.
Gareth Davis Chairman 1 Operating profit loss is defined as pre-exceptional profit loss before interest and tax, before theamortisation of specifically identified intangibleassets recognised on acquisitions.
2 Net revenue is a gaming term that is equivalent to the Revenue defined in the statutory accounts on page 91.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
