Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Chairmans review delivering value in the short term and for the long term Sir Ian Gibson Chairman Our strategic objectives See page 12 for further information How our KPIs link to strategy See page 14 for further information See our report visit: morrisons.
co. uk corporate ar2013 Operational highlights As anticipated, market conditions during the year have been challenging Underlying profit with ongoing commodity inflation m before tax 901 continuing to put further pressure on household budgets and an already Underlying earnings p fragile consumer confidence.
3 Against this difficult backdrop, Morrisons has worked hard to deliver a unique combination of value, freshness and quality to its customers.
Although our overall performance has not been as Final proposed p good as we would have wished, an increase in underlying earnings dividend per share 8.31 per share and a significant increase in the dividend demonstrate both the resilience of our business model in a tough economic environment and the Boards confidence in the future.
Profit share pool m At the start of the year, we outlined a range of strategic initiatives: for colleagues 46 the essential building blocks needed to support the development of our business.
These initiatives will enable us to deliver, over time, profitable sales growth, make Morrisons more efficient and secure Raised for Save new growth opportunities to deliver enhanced long term value m to shareholders.
I am delighted to report that we have made the Children charity 2.1 real progress in all these areas, particularly in the accelerated development of our convenience store programme and our decision to launch Morrisons online food offer in 2014.
Results Profit before tax of 879m was 7% below prior year.
The underlying We will continue to implement a wide range of measures to address operating margin of 5.2% fell by 30bps compared to last year.
the sales performance of the business, and progress our strategic Adjusting for the impact of a higher proportion of fuel sales in initiatives in order to provide a platform for successful long term the mix this year, the reduction was 20bps.
Our expectations are that the challenging consumer and market environment we saw in 2012 will persist through Net finance costs were 70m, an increase of 44m over the the coming year.
prior period, of which 17m related to IAS 19 pension interest.
The balance was primarily a result of a planned increase in net debt arising from an additional investment in capital expenditure and an acceleration of the equity retirement programme.
6 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Underlying profit is calculated after removing property disposals, At the year end the Group had committed but undrawn facilities multi-channel and convenience development costs and IAS 19 of 675m and a strong investment grade from Moodys.
Underlying operating profit of 950m fell by 24m 2% when compared to the prior year, with underlying In March 2012 we introduced Return on Capital Employed ROCE profit before tax of 901m down by 4%.
as a key performance measure, emphasising our focus on capital discipline which was reflected in our decision to reduce planned Underlying basic earnings per share EPS increased by 7% to capital expenditure during the year by 200m.
ROCE fell slightly 27.3p 2011 12: 25.6p with a reduction in the rate of corporation during the year to 9.6%, a consequence of like-for-like performance tax and the positive impact of the Groups equity retirement headwinds.
We will continue to focus on delivering improvements programme more than offsetting a reduction in underlying in this key measure over the coming years, although the immediate earnings.
Statutory basic earnings per share of 26.7p were priority is on driving our sales performance.
in line with the previous year.
Industry recognition In accordance with our policy of increasing the dividend in line with Morrisons is committed to providing its customers with great underlying earnings growth, subject to a minimum increase of 10% service and shop keeping, and to making it a great place to work in each of the three years to 2013 14, the Board is recommending for our colleagues.
This has again been recognised with a number a final dividend of 8.31p per share.
This brings the total dividend of prestigious industry awards.
These include Grocer of the Year: for the year to 11.80p, an increase of 10% on 2011 12.
The Employer of the Year, for the third year in a row: Best Service at dividend is covered 2.3 times by underlying earnings.
the Grocer Gold awards: six Grocer Own Label Food and Drink awards and Retail Week Employer of the Year for the second Cash flow from operations of 1,432m was 168m 13% higher successive year.
than in the previous year, primarily as a result of improved working capital management.
Community and the environment Our customers expect us to trade responsibly.
We are committed As anticipated, capital expenditure and investments rose slightly to working with the communities in which we operate, maintaining to 1,016m, an increase of 115m 13% over prior year.
This ethical standards and managing resources carefully.
capital investment reflected a planned acceleration in our new store opening programme, continuing investments in Evolve, Food matters to us: where it comes from and how its produced.
our industry leading IT systems development programme, Over the past year we have increased our support for British dairy and continuing expansion of our vertical integration capacity.
farmers and invested further in research into the long term viability It also included new investments to support our multi-channel of British farming.
We continue to support the Governments expansion, through the addition of new Kiddicare stores and in Public Health Responsibility Deal and have committed to join an online shopping capability.
We will continue to accelerate a consistent national scheme of front of pack labelling.
these essential investments in future growth and expect capital expenditure in 2013 14 to be 1.1bn, which includes 150m Our Lets Grow programme, which aims to support the next for multi-channel development.
generation of food growers, is currently in its fifth year and we have donated 18m of gardening equipment to schools.
A further 579m was invested in our equity retirement programme of which 65m related to the purchase of shares held in treasury.
We have made good progress towards our long term energy By the end of the financial year, a total of 947m had been invested reduction targets.
Our colleagues and customers always go the and 312m shares had been cancelled in the period since we extra mile to support our selected charity.
For the third consecutive commenced the programme in 2011.
We have now met our year we have worked with Save the Children and this year raised objective of returning 1bn to shareholders, in addition to normal over 2.1m.
dividend payments, over the two years to March 2013.
The programme has had a positive impact of 4.2% on our reported Our colleagues underlying earnings per share in the year, and will have a further These awards could not have been achieved without the dedication, positive impact in the year ahead.
hard work and passion of all our 129,000 colleagues throughout the business who every day seek to make Morrisons Different and Net debt rose as expected to 2,181m 2011 12: 1,471m, Better Than Ever for the c11 million customers on average who reflecting these investments and increased tax payments.
This visit our stores each week.
I am delighted that their efforts have brings our gearing to 42% which remains a conservative level enabled them to share a profit share pool of 46m this year.
We believe in creating long term partnerships with our colleagues In line with its stated principles, the Group continues to maintain by giving them the time, qualifications and support they need to a strong balance sheet position.
This is securely financed by a develop their skills.
We have maintained our position as the largest number of long dated bonds and revolving credit facilities at provider of apprenticeships in the UK with over 11,000 apprentices competitive rates.
During the period we strengthened our financial graduating during the year.
We have supported this by provision position by increasing the funds available to the Group and of over 750,000 training days, the introduction of a number of extending the maturity profile of our borrowings.
We increased specialised development courses and the creation of Morrisons the revolving credit facilities we have with our banks, which are Centre of Excellence.
available until 2016, by a further 150m to 1,350m.
In July 2012 we issued a 400m sterling bond to institutional investors On behalf of the Board, I want to express our thanks to every one repayable in 2026, and in November 2012 we agreed a 200m of our colleagues for their dedication, professionalism and service term loan with our bankers, repayable in 2014. throughout the year.
