Chairmans statement In summary t Headline earnings per share of 181.8pence, 8.0% ahead of last year.
t Increased total ordinary dividend to66pence 2011 12: 60 pence.
t Special dividend of 348 million paid and further 300 million proposed.
t Further strengthening of the Board withtwo Non Executive Directors appointed in the year.
This included action to improve the Results and strategy competitiveness of our building materials I am delighted to report another good business in France and lowering its cost to We remain very positive year for Wolseley with like-for-like revenue serve, which we are confident will deliver growth of 2.9 per cent and a strong aboutour ability to grow improved returns in the long term.
You can performance in trading profit, up nearly read about these actions in the Chief the business, capitalising 11 per cent.
The trading margin of 5.6 per Executives review.
cent was 0.3 per cent ahead of last year on the significant Finally, we have delivered another year 2011 12: 5.3 per cent.
of strong cash ow, which is enabling opportunities to Our US business is generating excellent us to invest in the business and reward growth and we continue to outperform outperform our markets shareholders.
During the year we have the market in our principal businesses.
also made a number of value-creating over the long term, while The gains from ongoing efficiencies have in-llacquisitions, which are making a been reinvested to drive future growth.
at the same time We have delivered a further improvement improving returns.
in the trading margin to 7.3per cent in the Progress on strategy USA which has taken us above the historic peak margin achieved in 2007.
In Canada, Our strategy is unchanged and our core whilst residential markets have cooled in focus remains on delivering shareholder the past 12 months, we have still delivered value from the significant opportunity in profit growth in the year.
The structural growth opportunity in our geographical The fundamentals of our businesses in markets is large and whilst organic growth Europe are broadly solid: however in some remains the priority, we will continue to regions economic conditions have become supplement this with in-ll acquisitions.
increasingly challenging through the year.
At the same time we also continue to At the start of the year we announced a drive cost efficiency, which underpins our series of measures to improve operational expectation of further improvement in the efficiency with a particular focus on operating margin over the medium term.
lowering operating costs to make our businesses more competitive for the Wolseley plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Executing our strategy has been an With the confidence we have in our Committee Chairman and Senior important theme in 2012 13.
I am future performance and our current Independent Director have now been particularly proud of the work undertaken investment requirements, we remain assumed by Alan Murray.
We are fortunate by Ian Meakins, our Chief Executive, committed to returning surplus cash ow to have a Non Executive Director of the and his team on evolving our business to shareholders above and beyond that calibre of Alan Murray to succeed Andrew.
models to drive benets of scale and to required to fund organic growth and in-ll address customer needs.
Early in the year we took Leadership and people great strides this year in sharpening our the decision to drive greater efficiency Looking to the future, as well as an customer segmentation and continuing to into the balance sheet through a return of experienced and diverse Board, we place invest in a full multi-channel approach while capital and associated share consolidation a great deal of emphasis on the quality moving to a more systematically managed of 122 pence per share or 348 million, and diversity of our leadership teams branch network.
In particular this year we by way of a special dividend paid on across the Group.
We have worked continue to develop our e-business offering 31 December 2012. hard to put in place effective succession both to our traditional trade segments but We are proposing a further special and development programmes and also expanding our business into reaching dividend to shareholders of the excellent results we continue to consumers online.
Overall we remain 300 million, which is expected to be achieve are a testament to this effort.
very positive about our ability to grow the paid in December.
The special dividend Talent management continues to be business, capitalising on the significant and share consolidation will be subject a key area of focus for both the Board opportunities to outperform our markets to shareholder approval at the AGM on and myself, given my strong belief that over the long term, while at the same time 26 November 2013. the stability and effectiveness of our as improving returns.
management teams across the Group Our balance sheet remains very strong and isakey ingredient of our success.
the Group will continue to target net debt Commitment to corporate in the range of 1x to 2x EBITDA, consistent Our strong results this year are of course a responsibility with investment grade credit metrics.
reection of the quality of our people across Corporate responsibility underpins the the world from the senior management to sustainability of our business and, as The Board our teams in the business units.
On behalf such, is an integral part of achieving our of the Board, I would like to thank all of my As Chairman, I seek to ensure that the overall strategy.
The Board believes that Wolseley colleagues for their continued Board is as effective as possible and the integration of corporate responsibility contribution and commitment to our I believe strongly that this is the case.
across the Group and the inclusion of customers and our values.
Over the past two years I, alongside broader social and environmental issues my colleagues on the Nominations In the longer term, we remain very into our decision-making processes will Committee, have sought to ensure that positive about the opportunities to grow help Wolseley to achieve our business the right balance of skills, experience, the business and we are well positioned goals, act as a building block for growth capabilities, independence, diversity to capitalise on the significant structural in shareholder value and benefit the and knowledge of the Company are growth potential in our markets.
communities in which we operate.
As such, reected on the Board.
During the year the Board remains fully committed to this we have further strengthened the Board important aspect of how we operate.
and on 1 January 2013 Pilar Lpez and We are now in our fourth year of measuring Alan Murray joined the Company as Non our progress and our drive for continuous Executive Directors.
Pilar is Chief Financial improvement is set out in the Corporate officer of Telefnica Europe.
Alan was Responsibility section of this report on Chief Executive of Hanson plc between pages 48 to 63.
Both Directors have joined Chairman the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Shareholder returns Committees of the Board.
Our commitment to creating shareholder In July we announced that Andrew Duff, value remains strong.
In line with our Wolseleys Senior Independent Director, progressive dividend policy, this year the would be stepping down at the 2013 Board is proposing a final dividend of Annual General Meeting after nine years 44pence per share 2011 12: 40 pence of service with the Company.
I would pershare for payment on 2 December like to thank Andrew for his outstanding 2013 to shareholders on the register on contribution to Wolseley and wish him 11 October 2013.
This brings the total the very best for the future.
Andrews ordinary dividend for the year to 66 pence responsibilities as Remuneration per share 2011 12: 60 pence pershare, which is a year-on-year increase of 10per cent.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9 Listening to our customers I want great service every time I deal with you Having the best people is key to is now at the highest level since the giving our customers exceptional survey started in 2005, despite a service every day.
The UK is challenging trading environment.
continuing to work hard to boost This score ranks in the top quartile employee engagement levels.
This is of the Employee Engagement Index achieved through measuring staff Benchmark according to Harris engagement on a regular basis and Interactive, one of the worlds largest making improvements to working market research rms who carry environments and training to ensure out the surveys for the UK business.
our front line staff are engaged and Their engagement benchmark deliver the best possible service to is compiled from more than 100 customers.
In 2013, Wolseley UKs organisations surveyed.
average employee engagement score Wolseley plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview I want a broad range of expertise that is always available Facilities Maintenance FM centres staffed with highly-trained isa large and attractive segment experts who have knowledge of the for our US business and has major categories to suit the needs tremendous opportunities for of FM customers including: heating, growth.
The addressable FM market ventilation and air conditioning is estimated at about 13 billion and is HVAC : lighting: electrical: pipes, fragmented.
Our strategy is to target valves and ttings PVF : and purchasing and facility managers plumbing.
Customers are also able to in a variety of sectors with a unique order online, see up-to-date product blend of call centre support and availability and use web tools to e-business solutions with a broad automate frequent purchases and SKU range.
The business operates review their account information.
a unique business model using call Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11
