How we behave and howwere rewarded Report by Philip Lader left Directors report Chairman of the Company and chairman of the Nomination and Dear share owner Governance Committee nother record year for WPP, we are pleased to performance improvement remains long.
The Board joins me in commending all youhave charged us, as directors, with the longthe people across the globe who helped our termstewardship of this remarkable company.
A Company achieve new levels of revenue, That is why, at this time of noteworthy profitability, headline margins, and earnings per achievement, major changes in our Board share, our leadership in all net new business league wereundertaken.
tables, and the very top international creative awards.
We instituted a mandatory retirement policy We trust this enthusiasm about 2013s results is fornon-executive directors, recruited and appointed shared by our share owners.
The years 55% rise in a large slate of extraordinary new non-executive WPPs share price, 20% dividend increase, and lift directors, significantly changed the composition ofour dividend pay-out ratio to 42% evidence that ofBoard committees, initiated transitions in their much is going well with your Company.
leadership, and will announce my successor as Your Board, meeting after meeting, re-visits and chairman in the coming months.
tests the Groups strategic objectives: Two highly respected colleagues, consequently, greater penetration of the worlds faster-growing will leave your Board at our Annual General geographic markets: Meeting.
Esther Dyson, the eminent authority on increase in revenues from new media: allmatters digital and successful investor in infant continued rapid growth in data investment web-based businesses, has been a WPP director since management and the application of technology: and 1999: Orit Gadiesh, the Chair of Bain & Company horizontality in the provision of our operating and strategic advisor to CEOs in diverse fields companies services.
They have devoted We are convinced, while nudging and countless hours and miles on your behalf, had championing managements real-time tactical tangible influence on decisions large and small, adjustments, that this aggregate strategy remains andpersonally will be very much missed.
bestfor WPPs responsible growth and profitability.
For an organisation as complex and dispersed Yet as noted elsewhere in this report client asWPP, institutional memory is critically important.
confidence in external conditions is not fully That is why an unusually large number of new restored, the competitive landscape is changing directors was appointed at this time and committee significantly, geopolitical events are unsettling, rosters have swelled.
In the next few years, noneof our leadership is getting younger, and newcomers familiarity with our businesses and managements continually revised agenda for people can progress as veterans cycle off the Board.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 121 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report During these new colleagues probable tenure, senior from Enterprise Solutions to Plastics to management transitions and dramatic technological, Transportation, and leader of GEs Corporate as well as industry, changes may occur: and the AuditStaff enable Charlene to share GEs relevant longer these directors service on the Board, the disciplines and practices with WPPs management.
better informed their judgements likely will be.
The breadth of her roles at this distinguished Those of us who have long been privileged to serve company has developed in her an extraordinarily this Company believe that our share owners will find keen eye for business risks and opportunities.
in these new non-executive directors, individually and John Hood: From his student days as a Rhodes as a group, the experience, wisdom, disciplines, Scholar to his current chairmanship of the Rhodes independence, and vision necessary to challenge and Trust including the leadership of Oxford and support management, seize opportunities, make tough Auckland Universities, John has demonstrated rare choices, honour commitments to our people and the combined capacities for thought and action.
And he clients and places WPP serves, and act in your best contributes to our boardroom seasoned commercial interests.
Their credentials illustrate the direct judgement earned from executive and board roles in relevance of their backgrounds to the Groups core his native New Zealand, as URENCOs and Study competencies and strategic objectives, suggesting the Group Ltds Chairman and a BG Group director, potential contributions we veterans anticipate from and president of a major US-based foundation.
their service: Daniela Riccardi: Client perspective is extremely Roger Agnelli: Latin Americas and Africas helpful to a client-services company like ours.
That strategic importance to WPP makes the appointment iswhy Daniela a long-time WPP client as a Procter of Roger to our Board invaluable, given his in-depth, & Gamble executive, including her leadership of its region-wide perspective and relationships as one of China, Eastern Europe and Russian businesses, Brazils most respected business leaders.
His candid, before becoming CEO of the Diesel fashion business independent judgement, moreover, is based on a and now of Baccarat, the luxury goods company decade as CEO of VALE, a diverse prior career in speaks with particular authority as a new director.
banking, and his extensive experience as a director This Paris-based Italians prominence across the ofnumerous international companies.
FMCG retail-and-fashion world also enhances Jacques Aigrain: Jacques brings to our Board not WPPs real-time interaction with these important only the intellectual force illustrated by his Sorbonne sectors.
Economics PhD, but also keen finance and Nicole Seligman: After work as a journalist in regulatory, as well as institutional and private equity, Asia, a clerkship with the US Supreme Court, and insights from his chairmanship of LCH.
Clearnet widely recognized advocacy in complex media and Group, role as Swiss Res CEO, two decades with other litigation as a partner in a major American law JPMorgan Chase, and advisory work for Warburg firm, Nicole has served as General Counsel of Sony Pincus.
While European, his work on boards from Corporation and President of Sony Corporation of the Middle East to Texas, as well as in Europe, are America.
From Tokyo to New York, she has the basis for his particular audit, acquisition, and participated in many of the past decades compliance competencies.
entertainment, communications and technology Charlene Begley: Several decades of senior changes that impact WPPs businesses.
executive leadership at the General Electric Company Hugo Shong: WPPs growth in China has been, including as its Chief Information Officer, head of and will continue to be, instrumental to our its Sourcing Council, CEO of its Home & Business Companys performance.
Few individuals in that Solutions Appliances, Lighting & Intelligent country have had more WPP-relevant responsibility Platforms, as well as CEO of GE divisions ranging and experience than our Board colleague Ruigang Li 122 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report and his new fellow countryman director Hugo dozen group heads and functional leaders, reporting Shong.
Over Hugos nearly 25 years with to him, who run all WPP businesses day-to-day, with International Data Group IDG and as president far more authority than occasional observers suggest.
ofIDG Asia China, he launched more than 40 Clients certainly value Martins friendship and magazines and newspapers, established a pioneering insights: but on business matters, they look $3.8 billion Chinese technology venture fund, and principally to the resourceful people more directly serves on the boards of major Chinese healthcare responsible for WPPs services.
We, nonetheless, are prepared for emergencies Sally Susman: In addition to Public Affairs Public and again as I expressed last year Ultimately Policy constituting a significant line of WPP business, confronting the succession elephant will be part developments in this arena affect our Group science, part art...
There is no more important profoundly.
Sally, in this field, is both a consumer responsibility of your Board: and we earnestly ofservices and a veteran professional.
After several endeavor to remain prepared for this inevitable senior corporate affairs posts at American Express [CEO] transition.
That time, however, is not now.
inLondon and the US and service with the US I hope that the careful selection of our new Department of Commerce, she was Este Lauders non-executive directors and of my successor as Executive Vice President of Global Communications chairman will strengthen share owners confidence and is now Pfizers Executive Vice President for that, whenever that time comes, your interests, Policy External Affairs and Communications.
aswell as clients and WPPs peoples, will be very Notwithstanding their contributions related well served.
tobrands, geographic and product markets, The Mexican artist featured in this years report, understanding of consumers, clients, new technologies Diego Rivera, is famous for his stylised figures, and regulatory issues, this expanded Board will have engaged in everyday life, making their respective no greater responsibility than ensuring the continued contributions to momentous achievements.
Although emphasis on management development.
corporate annual reports necessarily focus on Throughout this past year, your Board continued individual leaders and quantified results, perhaps our succession-planning program, with review of Riveras illustrations can remind us that WPPs some 100 individuals, including all the business performance is, essentially, the work of 175,000 leaders named in this report, other senior talent, and dedicated people: individuals going to work every day, rising stars.
We insist on the confidentiality of this serving clients, their families, and our share owners, process lest horizontality between our operating and thereby building an ever-greater company.
companies be impaired or, as the future requirements of positions change, individuals be misguided.
My last years letter, referring to that Annual Philip Lader Report artists elephants, summarised the issue of 16 April 2014 WPP CEO succession: [Theres] no elephant in thisroom.
Our new non-executive directors and veterans alike are unanimous in the view that and here I repeat my last years comment Martin Sorrell is the best chief executive officer in this industry and the person who can best serve the interests of share owners in this role at this time.
Notwithstanding Martins client-helpful, high media profile, it is some WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 123
