06 Introduction Chairmans Statement In 2013, Atkins celebrates 75 years of design, engineering and project management consultancy.
We have learned from the past to create the present and to inspire the future.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Introduction 07 Full biographies of our Board of Directors can be found on pages 58-59 www.
com investor-relations Performance As we celebrate our anniversary year, Dividend I am pleased to report that the Group I would like to thank our people, past The Board is recommending a final delivered another year of good results and present, for making Atkins what it dividend of 22.0p per ordinary share in in worldwide markets which continue to is today.
In particular, I would like to look respect of the year ended 31 March 2013, be challenging.
The increasing diversity, back at last summers hugely successful making the total dividend for the year breadth and depth of our geographic London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic 32.0p 2012: 30.5p, an increase of and sector reach continue to provide Games.
The Games were the culmination 4.9%.
If approved at the Companys the Group with resilience and we are of seven years work from Atkins annual general meeting, the dividend beginning to see growth opportunities colleagues.
I commend them for playing will be paid on 23 August 2013 to return in the UK and internationally.
It is their part in delivering a Games to be ordinary shareholders on the register our combination of technical excellence proud of and for inspiring the next on 19 July 2013.
Further details regarding and outstanding regional and segmental generation of engineers as the world dividend payments can be found in capabilities that enable us to continue looked on in appreciation of the design Investor Information page 164. to deliver these results.
and engineering work that was necessary to stage this event.
I look forward to the Outlook We have also made good progress next chapter in our history as we continue The Group has maintained its resilience to towards achieving our strategic priorities.
to influence, design, engineer and manage challenging markets worldwide through We have continued the work to optimise projects that are creating the future.
the breadth and depth of its geographic our portfolio and during the year we and sector reach.
This is reflected in the reached agreement to sell our UK Board of directors results we have reported for the year highways services business which will As chairman of the Board, I am responsible ended 31 March 2013.
While we will enable us to focus on higher growth, for ensuring its effective management continue to face challenges in some of higher margin activities.
I have set out my our markets and sectors due to ongoing commitment to excellence in governance uncertain economic conditions and People in the Corporate Governance Report increased competition, we have made Over the past 75 years our success has pages 64 to 75.
An important aspect of good progress towards our strategic been due to the expertise, quality, hard this governance is an annual review of the priorities and expect this positive work and dedication of our people.
During the year momentum to continue in the year ahead.
We have a technical heritage dating we carried out an external, independent back to 1938 with deep rooted values review that, while recognising the progress Allan Cook CBE that drive every aspect of our business: we have made, also identified a number Chairman outstanding people: placing our clients of opportunities for the Board to increase 12 June 2013 at the centre of everything we do: its effectiveness.
We have created working together: being innovative a detailed action plan which will be and delivering winning performance.
implemented throughout the coming year.
Last year, Dr Raj Rajagopal took over as chairman of the Remuneration Committee when Sir Peter Williams retired from the Board.
I would like to thank him for his first full year in his new role.
Pages 58-59 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Introduction
