Chairmans statement Well placed in a growing market I am delighted to report on a year of second half of the year and we will continue significant progress in our business during to work with our OEM partners in this space the 12 months ended 31 December 2013. to support the field trials of the technology Continuing the theme from my 2013 Interim during 2014.
Sales into the graphics market Report, we have continued to deliver continue to be dominated by our older excellent financial results, whilst investing generation of products: this will be heavily for the future.
All of our investments addressed by the launch of a new during the period in additional staff, facilities, generation product during 2014 which is and assets have been self-funded.
intended to re-start growth in this market.
Due to the substantial rise in our market Our excellent profit performance has capitalisation we were pleased to be been achieved as a result of extremely admitted to the FTSE 250 in June 2013. high asset and people utilisation.
In order to We have grown our revenue in each of bring utilisation back to standard levels and our markets such that we achieved record create the opportunity for further growth we revenue in the year, growing 55% over 2012 are investing 30 million in manufacturing and more than trebling revenue over the last assets at the Huntingdon facility to generate four years.
Adjusted profit before tax has an additional 75% manufacturing capacity more than doubled over 2012, which was for the Xaar 1001 2 product, which is itself a 74% increase over 2011.
Adjusted scheduled to be in place by mid-2014.
The diluted earnings per share has also more dramatic, but virtually trouble free, increase than doubled to 43.2p in 2013 2012: 20.1p, in output during 2013 could not have been this being the fourth year in a row of achieved without the dedication and talent Phil Lawler substantial earnings growth.
We continue of the Xaar Operations team.
Chairman to generate cash despite the investments 18 March 2014 During this rapid growth phase we have referred to above and ended 2013 with continued to hire talent globally.
Whilst net cash cash and cash equivalents the majority of hires have been from the UK, and treasury deposits of 53.5 million the specialised nature of our business and and no debt resulting in a very strong our desire to employ only the best means balance sheet.
that we have attracted people from around the world and have built a truly multi-national Sales into the industrial sector continue team of approximately 800 staff.
Our to account for a high proportion of our Huntingdon manufacturing site has revenues, driven primarily by the continued increased staff by 57% during 2013. conversion of the global ceramic tile market Additionally, we have increased research and success of Platform 3 P3 products.
and development R&D staff by 64% and Other applications in the sector, including this has required us to take a third building decorative laminates and additive on the Cambridge Science Park.
manufacturing, continue to make good early stage progress, albeit generating I reserved comment on our new thin film modest revenues to date.
The packaging piezo technology Platform 4 deliberately market continues to be a key focus area until after mentioning the significant for the Company, and during the year we additional investment we are making in achieved strong growth in the primary label R&D.
We anticipate that our bulk piezo application.
It was also pleasing to see the technology has a strong future, but we first public demonstrations of direct-toknow that there is plenty of opportunity shape printing technology during the for a new supplementary technology 6 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements We have grown our revenue in each of our markets such that we achieved record revenue in the year.
Progress has to appoint a Chief Technical Officer CTO The annual report and accounts have been made during 2013 culminating and I am delighted to announce that been re-designed for 2013 to provide a in a successful internal technology Edmund Creutzmann will join the Board more focused and useful document to demonstration in December 2013.
Edmund brings readers of the accounts, giving a good remain on track with our plan to deliver over 30 years of digital printing R&D understanding of both the opportunities the first thin film product commercially expertise to the Company following an and risks faced by the Group.
Our plans are ambitious and extensive career at Siemens AG and Oc line with recommendations from the therefore come with risks.
However, as a Printing Systems GmbH.
Reporting to the Combined Code and best practice.
The global leader in this very large but highly CTO the R&D function has been split into Group continues to comply with the UK segmented market, we believe this is two departments, with R&D 1 focusing on Corporate Governance Code 2010.
Board unquestionably the right decision.
bulk piezo technology products Platform meetings are supported by detailed papers 1, 2, 3 and R&D 2 focusing on thin film and timely minutes.
Attendance by all Xaars consistent approach is one of technology products Platform 4.
Ramon members remains excellent and I take delivery and we have deliberately chosen Borrell, previously R&D Director, will this opportunity to thank them for their to be relatively low profile.
However, it was become Director of R&D 2, and a new continuing commitment, professionalism pleasing during one week in November hire, Brian James, will head up R&D 1. and, above all this year, results.
The Board 2013 to receive the following awards: As a consequence Ramon Borrell will step continues to take dedicated days to down from the Board effective 1 April 2014, consider and review the Groups strategy.
Main Stock Market Company of the Year allowing him to concentrate all his efforts Detailed market and competitive analysis Shares Magazine Tech Growth Business of the Year on the critical task of successfully bringing is undertaken in advance and the future UK Tech Awards Platform 4 to market.
We welcome Edmund direction and capabilities of the Group are UK Manufacturing Site of the Year to the Board and thank Ramon for all his debated in detail.
The Board, its Executives, National Microelectronics Institute contributions as R&D Director.
We look Chairman and Non-Executives are all forward to his success on the thin film evaluated annually against specific and Additionally, in March 2014 Xaar plc won programme.
A second planned change relevant performance criteria.
Company of the Year for 2013 at the to the Board anticipated for 2014 is the PLC Awards.
Whilst 2013 has been an excellent year recruitment of an additional experienced of progress for the Company, and the These awards are a testament to the Non-Executive Director to bring next period is expected to be more modest increased standing the Group has achieved, organisational development experience in terms of growth, we believe we are still due entirely to the high quality and to the Board as well as improving the very much at the start of the analogue dedication of its management and staff.
balance of Executive to Non-Executive to digital print transformation and as Board membership.
Xaars continuing financial performance such we continue to see significant and increased net cash in 2013 has enabled After 12 years of dedication and focus opportunities ahead.
the Board to recommend a final dividend of to Xaar, Ian Dinwoodie, CEO, has informed 5.5 pence.
This, together with the 2.5 pence the Board of his intention to retire during interim dividend paid on 4 October 2013, 2015.
Ian has overseen the significant equals 8 pence for the year, a doubling development of the Company, with an of the total dividend paid for 2012. adjusted diluted earnings per share of 1.6 pence when he took over as CEO There were no changes to Board in 2003, growing to a record 43.2 pence membership during 2013: however, in 2013.
An extensive search will now due to the significant growth of the be undertaken for Ians successor.
Company there will be changes during 2014.
Due to the significantly enlarged scale of the R&D function, the Board has decided www.
