1 top-flight experience in change management and a strong business CHaIrMaNS tobusiness client focus honed in an international environment.
Two non-executive Directors retired r E vIE W fromthe Board during the year: Hubertus Krossa, following the decision to divest the 2013 was a challenging year for Balfour Beatty, Groups Mainland European rail operations: and Mike Donovan having served eight with a disappointing 37% decline in earnings years on the Board, includingas chair of the Business Practices Committee.
We per share as the result thank both fortheir valued contributions.
At the end of the year, we also said Operational issues within the UK Construction goodbye to Robert van Cleave, CEO business have been actively addressed.
ofConstruction Services US and to MikePeasland, previous CEO of our UK construction business.
Iwould like to Profitable order book growth in the recovering wishboth all the best for their retirements and thank them for all their efforts within US and UK infrastructure markets is the overriding thebusiness.
priority for 2014. employees and safety Our employees have worked tirelessly throughout the year to meet our clients expectations.
The Board thanks them fortheir personal commitment.
Despite overall measures of accident and injury Secondly, the profitable Australian levels continuing to improve, five professional services business had employees of subcontractors lost tocope with the need to significantly theirlives during the year whilst on duty.
downsize its operations, given the rapid This is a matter of huge regret to everyone collapse in local resources and mining involved: every incident has been related investment.
Operating costs, exhaustively investigated to determine including headcount, have been whether changes to our processes aggressively reduced.
Every effort has or procedures can reduce future risk.
been made to retain essential capabilities to benefit when sector reinvestment The way we work p38 progressively occurs, albeit this will ongoing priorities inevitably take some time.
Despite short term earnings declines, The majority of the Parsons Brinckerhoff theBoard is proposing to hold the final Revenue from continuing operations worldwide business, the US construction dividend of 8.5 pence per share 2012: including joint ventures and associates business and Support Services all 8.5pence, resulting in an unchanged increased by 2% in the year to performed broadly in line with expectations.
Underlying pre-tax profits The Infrastructure Investments division of 187 million were down 32%, most of It is right that recent challenges allied had an excellent year, successfully which occurred in the first half of the year.
torecovery potential in our two largest recycling capital in line with its long term The full-year underlying EPS declined markets will impact on our operational strategy, and generating 82 million by37%.
Theyear-end orderbook was focus in 2014.
The main priority is to profits on the sale of mature PFI assets broadly flatat 13.4billion.
recommence profitable order book growth inthe process: this outcome was ahead in recovering US and UK infrastructure Most parts of the Group delivered ofexpectation and 45 million above markets, where the Groups largest acceptable operating results in still highly Directors valuation.
Expansion into competitive infrastructure markets: newand emerging markets will be limited Chief Executives Report p4 however the year presented two particular for the immediate future.
In April, it was announced Year-end net debt was 66million, albeit Groups balance sheet remains strong, thatthe UK construction business would the operating cash outflow of 162 million with sources of funding now well deliver substantially lower profits.
This during the year was disappointing, diversified, improving underlying arose from a combination of order book not helped by first half issues within cash generation is also a key priority.
and margin contraction in both the Major Construction Services UK.
Discretionary investment beyond Projects and the Regional business: but the ongoing recycling of PPP capital Board was not helped by a major consolidation proceeds will bedeliberately prioritised There were a number of Board changes and reorganisation project being to ensure that this is achieved.
during the year, it was announced in implemented at the beginning of January 2013 that Ian Tyler would step theyear, with an erosion of operating down asChief Executive at the end of managements focus as a result.
Since March 2013, and that Andrew McNaughton that time, major changes have been would be appointed to succeed him.
madeto improve operational delivery andalso ongoing profitable work winning Belinda Richards and Bill Thomas joined capability, including a number of new the Board as non-executive Directors divisional management appointments.
steve Marshall witheffect from 1 September 2013.
Second half profitability hasimproved Chairman Incombination, they bring to the Board materially as a result.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
