Chairmans statement Ian Durant, Chairman This was another year of signi cant DELIVERING performance for Capco.
Our focus on London and our strong financial position VALUE WITH will enable us to build on the momentum and continue to deliver market-leading total RESPONSIBILITY returns for our shareholders from both our landmark estates.
Total shareholder return Total return Dividend pence 350 300 23% 1.
5p 250 200 150 100 50 0 10 May 2010 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 Capco FTSE 350 Real Estate Index 6 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements I am pleased to report that 2013 was a year of excellent THE BOARD AND ITS ACTIVITIES performance for Capco.
This is our fourth set of annual Capcos Board operates openly and transparently, results following our establishment as an independent allowing dialogue and debate between the Executive company, a period in which the business has grown in and Non-executive Directors.
The eff ective operation value and capability with a strong focus on its two of the Board was endorsed by an external Board estates in central London, Covent Garden and Earls evaluation undertaken during the year, which is Court Properties.
In 2013, signi cant milestones were described on page 55.
I would like to thank the achieved across the business as Capco continued to Non-executive Directors for their continued execute its strategy to generate market-leading total commitment during 2013. returns for shareholders.
During the year, the Board considered the Groups At Covent Garden, ERV increased by 11 per cent to strategy and con rmed that the focus on central 58.0 million and we have welcomed a number of London retail and residential property, with the luxury brands to the estate, including Dior Beauty, exibility to consider non-core opportunities, Burberry Beauty Box and Miller Harris.
2013, Westminster Council resolved to grant planning 2013 saw the application of a revised UK Corporate consent for a redevelopment of Kings Court and Governance code as well as new remuneration Carriage Hall which will cover over 90,000 square feet, reporting regulations.
Our Audit Committee Report our first major development at Covent Garden.
on page 57 and Directors Remuneration report on The Earls Court Masterplan has achieved outline page 62 re ect these new disclosure requirements.
planning consent and a detailed planning application More details on the Boards activities may be read in in respect of Earls Court Village to progress the design the Corporate Governance Report on page 52. of the scheme has been submitted.
As the development is implemented, the local community will bene t COMMUNITY through commitments made under the Section 106 Our corporate strategy is complemented by continued agreement.
Discussions with Transport for London investment and participation in the communities TfL regarding a proposed joint venture to enable where our estates are based.
Many of our staff the development of EC1 & EC2 in line with the Earls participated in our Corporate Responsibility CR Court Masterplan are progressing well.
At Lillie Square, programme during the year, contributing over our joint venture is preparing to launch the first phase 515 hours to supporting projects.
In 2013 the CR of a residential scheme that will provide over 800 programme included fund raising events for The Sir new homes.
Simon Milton Foundation and the Covent Garden charity Mousetrap Theatre Projects, engagement with Following recent investment to enhance the Olympia schools in both Earls Court and Covent Garden and the venue, the exhibitions business has been re-launched sponsorship and organisation of a Community Fun Day as Olympia London.
In December 2013 the Company became a constituent of the JSE 40 index in South Africa which comprises MOVING FORWARD the largest companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock London continues to thrive as a global city and the Exchange.
Capco remains a member of the FTSE 250 value of this remains attractive to investors.
begin 2014, macroeconomic conditions appear to be improving, but we must not be complacent and we will RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS continue to focus on the delivery of Capcos strategy.
In 2013, Capco delivered strong performance with I am con dent that this clear strategy, with its focus a total return of 23 per cent, of which the main on London, and Capcos strong financial position will component was the increase in EPRA adjusted, diluted enable the Company to capitalise on the momentum NAV per share from 203 pence to 249 pence.
The of 2013 and continue to deliver attractive returns for valuation of the Groups property assets increased by shareholders, whilst embarking on exciting place- 19.9 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Total shareholder making initiatives at both of our landmark estates.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend of 1.0 pence per share, bringing the total dividend paid and payable for 2013 to 1.5 pence per share.
I would like to thank the Executive Directors and all Capcos staff for their hard work and commitment during 2013 which has generated the Groups I. C. Durant performance.
