0 02 2 INTRODUCTION COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Chairmans statement Delivering results, developing innovative products, and capitalising on our unique proposition 2013 has been a seminal year for On the basis of these results, the Board has of Robert Davies and Neville Richardson recommended a final dividend of 6.0 pence and the Board will be looking to make further Countrywide: the housing market net per share, giving a total 2013 dividend of appointments in the first half of 2014 to fill the recovery is underway, increasing 8.0 pence net per share.
Subject to approval vacancies this created.
Following the disposal business activity across the Group: at the AGM, to be held on 30 April 2014, by Apollo-Affiliated Fund of part of their the successful IPO in March and the dividend will be paid on 7 May 2014 to respective shareholdings in the Company, their subsequent debt repayment: and shareholders on the register at 28 March 2014. aggregate shareholdings were reduced and to 50.4million has been invested in reflect the reduced size of their shareholding, strategic acquisitions, strengthening Capital structure Sanjay Patel, the director of the Company our services and geographical After an absence of six years, Countrywide was appointed by them stepped down with footprint.
I am therefore delighted re-listed on the London Stock Exchange raising immediate effect in August 2013.
In addition, to report a positive set of results 220 million in new share capital.
At the same CEO Grenville Turner has indicated his desire time we secured a new 100 million banking to step down as CEO during the course of 2014. for 2013.
Total income increased by facility with a syndicate of six banks.
These A search for his successor, both from within 11% to 584.8 million and EBITDA funds were used to redeem the 250 million of and outside the Company, has therefore been increased by37% to 86.6 million, 10% fixed interest debt in May.
Given his extensive and unparalleled which is reflected in adjusted sold at IPO by directors or our three sponsors, experience in the sector, the Board has asked earningsper share of 24.4 pence.
who retained their interests in the shares post him to take over as non-executive Chairman floatation.
Subsequently, Apollo and Alchemy and Grenville has agreed to do so once a new divested their holdings in full.
Oaktree sold CEO is in place.
I will then become Deputy 9.3% of their 36.9% holding and remain as the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
largest single investor with a 27.6% holding, The decision to appoint Grenville as Chairman with management holding 4.3%, and the has been discussed with a number of the remaining 68.1% of shares being freely traded Companys major shareholders, as was the and held largely by an encouragingly broad Boards desire to maintain the continuity and range of long term institutional investors.
success of the senior management team that has overseen Countrywides successful return Net debt excluding finance leases at the year to the public markets.
The Board is continuing end was 37.7 million 2012: 203.2 million to make progress in appointing two new and the Group had a further 25.0 million independent directors to return to full code in undrawn facilities.
compliance and further announcements will In February 2014 we increased our banking be made in due course.
facilities by 50 million and at the same time Markets reduced the margin we pay.
The additional funds will be used to invest in further strategic As we noted in our January 2014 Trading opportunities when appropriate.
Update, the recovery of the housing market is still at an early stage.
The key to a lasting Board update recovery is assisting first time buyers and the general housing market outside of As the Company moved towards IPO, Robert London and the South East.
We remain Davies, Sandra Turner and Neville Richardson supportive of the Governments policies were appointed as the initial independent to achieve this and are wary of London non-executive directors.
Cathy Turner centric market commentators views that and I were appointed shortly after the IPO the whole UK housing market is overheated.
to complement the Board composition and As we comment elsewhere in this report, to achieve Code compliance.
Unforeseen Help to Buy seems to be addressing the circumstances led to the early resignations
