REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GROUP OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Stronger market conditions, coupled with the extensive improvements in our operational performance, have led to a signi cant improvement in the financial results and the outlook for the Group.
As a result we have made rapid progress towards our strategic objectives of enhancing pro tability, reducing indebtedness to achieve a more appropriate capital structure and improving return on capital.
Pro t before tax and exceptional items increased by 73.7% to 192.3m 2012: 110.7m and operating margin improved to 9.7% 2012: 8.2%.
Net debt has been reduced to 25.9m 2012: 167.7m at the year end and the business has re nanced ahead of schedule.
At the same time, we are creating a platform for future growth by agreeing the purchase of a further 1 billion of high margin land during the year.
Our improved sales rates meant that we nished the financial year with a much enhanced forward sales position.
Another year AN IMPROVING MARKET The fundamental drivers of the new homes market in the UK are consumer con dence and the availability of mortgage finance, of substantial particularly at higher loan to values.
Con dence in the UK housing market has started to grow, particularly during our final quarter, against the backdrop of a more stable economic outlook.
progress Signi cant progress has been made on the availability of finance for customers and the mortgage providers capacity to lend has This has been a year of signifi cantly improved fi financial slowly improved.
This has been accelerated by a series of Government mortgage initiatives performance for the Group and we continue to lead FirstBuy, NewBuy and Help to Buy.
the industry in levels of quality and customer service.
The NewBuy mortgage indemnity scheme launched in March 2012 and coupled with the FirstBuy equity share scheme that launched in summer 2011 made 90-95% mortgages for Dividend new build properties more widely available at more competitive rates.
Whilst we made good use of both of the schemes, we saw a step 2.5 pence change in demand for new homes with the per share 2012: nil launch of the Help to Buy Equity Loan scheme in April 2013.
TACKLING THE SHORTAGE OF HOMES Whilst there are signs that the market for new homes is improving and build rates are starting 1 Source: Department of Communities and Local Government, Welsh Assembly and Scottish Government.
to respond, the shortage of homes of every 2 Source: Department of Communities and Local Government, 2012 completed dwellings.
tenure cannot be fully resolved in the short- 06 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 term.
It is conservatively estimated that as delighted that so many have bought shares DIVIDEND a nation to satisfy demand from household in the Company and are bene tting from The Board recognises the importance of both 1 formation we should build around 260,000 its success.
capital growth and dividend income to our homes per annum but we are building existing and potential shareholders.
The social and economic We are committed to investing in our workforce proposing to recommence dividend payments consequences of this housing shortage both to underpin quality and also to address the with a final dividend of 2.5 pence per share, are considerable.
longer term skills issues that the industry faces which is covered around six times by adjusted as it increases output.
The training we offer basic earnings per share.
The Board will adopt We support the attempts of the Government across a range of disciplines via our Barratt a progressive dividend policy as pro tability to accelerate the supply of new homes by Academy and our graduate programme are grows, with the aim, for the year ending 30 providing the ability to buy and also by now widely regarded as industry leading.
June 2016, of achieving a target dividend cover addressing the longer term supply issues We have launched a series of new initiatives of around three times.
of land availability and planning.
including the recruitment of around 600 apprentices, graduates and paid interns THE FUTURE Our land buying has accelerated and last year over the next three years.
We will also support Our strategy continues to deliver a signi cantly we agreed to acquire land for 18,536 homes 100 people through a unique Housebuilding improved business performance.
Since 2009 we have Foundation Degree Programme delivered in housing market, we would expect to achieve our agreed to invest 2.6 billion in new land which partnership with Shef eld Hallam University.
objectives for the business earlier than previously is being brought through planning and into anticipated.
Whilst maintaining our disciplined production at the earliest opportunity.
The THE BOARD approach, we will use the outstanding capability land that we have secured is transforming the We have recruited Nina Bibby to the Board of the organisation to deliver signi cantly business.
It will boost production and continue as a Non-Executive Director and she brings improved performance by continuing to secure to drive our margin growth.
with her extensive consumer marketing the right land opportunities and delivering the experience from a range of sectors including highest quality homes for our customers.
We have already increased our completion financial services.
volumes by over 20% in the past two years and expect to deliver around 45,000 new Bob Davies retired from the Board after nearly Bob Lawson homes over the next three years.
Rod MacEachrane has decided to CHAIRMAN retire from the Board at the 2013 Annual General PURSUING QUALITY Meeting after nearly eight years on the Board.
For the last five years, the Group has focused Their wise counsel and contributions on improving every aspect of its operational will be missed.
performance and during the year I have seen at first-hand the result of the changes we have made.
We have developed a compelling business model which has at its core targeted land buying, effective planning, outstanding design and construction excellence, all backed by an industry leading customer experience.
The quality of our operations is improving year after year at every point of our process.
Design, build quality and customer service are all areas where our performance continues to be strong.
I was particularly pleased to see the results of the NHBC Pride in the Job Awards where our site managers secured more awards for quality workmanship than has ever been achieved by any housebuilder.
We have now led the industry for nine consecutive years.
We remain a 5 Star builder and we are the only national housebuilder to achieve that recognition for four consecutive years.
EMPLOYEES All our employees have played their part in delivering signi cant operational improvements.
The Board is grateful for their efforts and is Our development in Barnack, a couple of miles outside Stamford, built with materials adopting local character.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07
