105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:06 Page 4 Chairmans Statement Prime property continued to outperform secondary stock and the best performing regions were, again, London and the South East.
However, as the year progressed yields in those sectors compressed further.
The Managers bid on a number of properties during the year, and, while not completing any purchases, their disciplined approach signalled their unwillingness to pay the aggressive levels being bid, both in the regions and for more secondary properties.
As previously reported, the Company completed the development of student accommodation at Burma Road, Winchester in August.
There were no other developments or acquisitions during the year but asset management activity has continued to be an important area of focus for the Company.
There were several significant initiatives undertaken during the Chris Russell Chairman year which have enhanced the quality of the income stream and improved capital values.
Detailed information regarding the activities undertaken during the year is contained within the Managers Review.
Review of the Year Shareholders will recall a commitment made by the It is pleasing to report that the Company continued Company in July 2012 to purchase four ofce blocks to perform strongly in 2013.
Its net asset value in Aberdeen.
The Company completed the purchase NAV total return for the year was 13.0 per cent, of Blocks 1 and 2 in March 2014 for a cost of 65.0 comparing favourably with a total return of 10.9 per million.
Blocks 3 and 4 are expected to be cent from the benchmark Investment Property purchased later in April for a cost of around 30.4 Databank IPD Quarterly Universe.
The valuations of Blocks 1 and 2 will be total return from the property portfolio was 13.7 per reected in the NAV per share as at 31 March 2014 cent, also comparing favourably with the IPD total and the valuations of Blocks 3 and 4 will be return.
The portfolio continues to be in the top recognised in the NAV per share at the first quarter quartile of the IPD Quarterly Universe over one year end following their purchase.
The ofce blocks are and top decile over three and five years.
all being purchased as pre-let on terms of between 15 and 20 years and will generate income of 6.9 The share price total return during the year was 22.7 million per annum, equivalent to a net initial yield of per cent and the share price at the year-end was 6.8 per cent.
This is a significant transaction for the 120.5p.
This represented a premium of 14.4 per Company, providing it with exposure to one of the cent to the NAV per share of 105.3p.
The most buoyant ofce markets in the UK and an Companys shares traded at a strong premium increase in the level of dividend cover.
throughout the year, reecting the attractive dividend The following table provides an analysis of the yield, a well covenanted income stream and the movement in the NAV per share for the year: potential for capital gains from a portfolio of wellmanaged prime commercial property.
Pence The strengthening of investor appetite for UK NAV per share as at 31 December 2012 98.8 commercial property as reported at the interim stage Realised loss on sale of properties 0.1 continued for the full year.
Improving economic data, Unrealised increase in valuation of direct a lessening of fears of a breakup of the Eurozone property portfolio 9.0 and a continuing environment of low interest rates all Movement in interest rate swaps 0.3 helped contribute to an increase in demand for the Net revenue 3.3 asset class.
Overseas investors continued to provide Dividends paid 6.0 the largest source of demand, but with an increasing NAV per share as at 31 December 2013 105.3 demand from UK institutions as the year progressed.
4 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:06 Page 5 Dividends Since the year end, the cash balance has decreased to 122 million following a small acquisition and the Twelve monthly interim dividends, each of 0.5p per purchase of the first two ofce blocks in Aberdeen.
share, were paid during the year maintaining the The cash balance is expected to decrease further to annual dividend of 6.0p per share and providing a around 91 million following the completion of the dividend yield of 5.0 per cent based on the year-end remainder of the Aberdeen transaction.
Barring unforeseen circumstances, the Board intends that dividends in 2014 will continue to be paid monthly at the same rate.
Maturity of Secured Bonds and Bank Loan, and Continuation Vote The Companys level of dividend cover for the year Given the Companys 230 million bonds and 30 excluding property gains losses was 56.0 per cent million bank loan are both due to mature in June compared to 72.5 per cent in 2012.
The reduction 2015, the Board has been considering various in dividend cover has been due primarily to property options in relation to renancing this debt, either on sales over the past two years, the proceeds of which or before its maturity.
The Board believes that the were largely committed although un-invested as at current low interest rate environment and quality of 31 December 2013.
This cash included that the Companys portfolio make it well placed to earmarked for the acquisition of the ofce blocks in renance on attractive terms.
The income stream from this property, the As shareholders may be aware, the Company is student accommodation at Winchester and a required by its Articles of Incorporation to propose number of successful lease events undertaken in an ordinary resolution for the continuation of the recent months will be of significant benefit to the Company at its Annual General Meeting in 2015. level of dividend cover in future years.
In addition, The timing of the continuation vote was set at launch the Company continues to look for further attractive in 2005 so as to coincide with the maturity of the investment opportunities to deploy its modest 230 million bonds.
In the event of the bonds and remaining cash balance and, as long as there are no bank loan being renanced in advance of their significant adverse changes to the outlook for maturity date, the Board will bring the continuation interest rates, the Board believes that the Company vote forward.
can benefit from the current low interest rate environment as the maturity date for its bonds and one bank loan approaches.
Real Estate Investment Trusts REIT Regime The Board has continued to keep under review the Borrowings and Cash Balances recent changes to the REIT regime, and in particular At the year end the Companys borrowings were how these changes might impact the Company.
The represented by its 230 million secured bonds which Board remains satisfied that for the time being it mature in June 2015 and which have been assigned continues to be in the Companys interests to an Aaa rating by Moodys Investor Services, and a maintain the current group structure but this could 50 million secured bank loan which is repayable in change, particularly in light of any structural changes 2017.
Since the year-end, as part of the funding of which may take place as a result of renancing the the purchase of ofce blocks in Aberdeen, the debt.
Company has drawn down a 30 million committed bank facility which was taken out in 2012 and which Alternative Investment Fund Managers will mature in June 2015.
Directive Had the Company been fully invested at This Directive is European legislation which creates 31 December 2013, the level of gearing would have an EU-wide framework for regulating an alternative been 26.0 per cent.
However, since July 2012, when investment fund manager AIFM.
The Companys the Company made its commitment to purchase the activities fall within the remit of these new regulations ofce blocks in Aberdeen, it has held a higher level and it has until July 2014 to comply.
The Board is in of cash in order to fund part of the purchase cost.
an advanced stage of its planning.
It has reviewed The total amount of cash held at the year-end was the impact of the Directive on the Companys 160.9 million, resulting in gearing, net of cash, of operations and is considering two options: either to 13.1 per cent.
appoint a subsidiary of F&C Asset Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5 105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:06 Page 6 C Ch hai airrman mans s State Stateme men ntt c con onti tin nu ue ed d F&C as the Companys AIFM: or for the Company disappointments the year ahead should be another itself to act as the AIFM.
If the Board appoints a successful one for the asset class.
The Managers subsidiary of F&C as the AIFM then it will also be expect London and the South East to continue to required to appoint a depository.
There would be no outperform other regions in 2014, but with a additional fee payable to F&C should it be appointed broadening of investor demand towards some UK as the AIFM and the Board does not expect other regions and properties containing secondary costs relating to compliance with the Directive to be characteristics.
The imminent completion of the acquisition in Aberdeen is a significant transaction for the Company.
The Managers continue to seek attractive Issue of New Ordinary Shares investment opportunities and in particular to add During the year, the Company issued 14 million value through pro-actively managing the existing Ordinary Shares for a net consideration of 14.1 portfolio where there are many opportunities to million.
All new shares were issued at a premium to enhance revenue and capital returns for the most recently announced NAV.
seek new share issuance authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Board Composition Owing to other commitments, Jonathan Hooley Chris Russell retired as a Director on 31 December 2013.
On Chairman behalf of the Board I would like to thank Jonathan 11 April 2014 for his significant contribution to the Company since his appointment in 2009.
As previously announced, Trudi Clark was appointed as an independent non-executive Director on 4 February 2014.
Trudi is a former Chief Executive officer of Schroders C. I.
Limited and is a nonexecutive director of a number of unlisted funds and companies in Guernsey.
She brings accounting, property and banking experience to the Board.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.30pm on Wednesday 21 May 2014 at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting are requested to complete and return the Form of Proxy which is enclosed with the Annual Report so as to ensure that their votes are represented.
Outlook The economic environment in the UK has improved over the past year and this should help to support the momentum in the commercial property market.
While there are concerns about developments in the Eurozone and emerging markets as well as uncertainty as to when interest rates will start to increase, in the absence of any major economic 6 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
