CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Strong levels of growth Board and governance It gives me great pleasure to Ahead of the IPO, Foxtons appointed an experienced new Board which I am proud to lead as Chairman.
introduce the Groups inaugural We have already established appropriate Corporate statement to Shareholders.
Governance standards and these are discussed fully in the Corporate Governance section on pages 20 to 47.
2013 was a notable year in Dividend return to Shareholders Foxtons development with The Groups dividend policy is to pay between 35% to its successful flotation in 40% of profit after tax with the potential for special dividends to return excess cash to Shareholders.
This success was 2013 a final dividend for the year of 1.70p per share the result of a sound strategy plus a special dividend of 3.74p per share will, subject which has achieved strong to Shareholders approval at the AGM on 21 May 2014, be paid on 30 May 2014, to Shareholders on growth in revenues and the register at 2 May 2014.
The final dividend is profitability over a period of an apportioned payment from the point of IPO to year end.
Growth has been Summary achieved despite somewhat Our strategy is designed to deliver profitable growth lacklustre macroeconomic through targeted organic expansion.
Although our growth is not reliant on any significant improvement conditions and a continuing in the property market, the Group is clearly well shortage of property sales positioned to take advantage of any further growth within the property sales market.
The Group has transactions throughout the UK, performed well: it has a dynamic and dedicated team and in London in particular.
of people all determined to build further on our success.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank them on behalf of the whole Board and with them Overview look forward, with some confidence, to the future.
Total revenue and Adjusted EBITDA in 2013 were 16.0% and 29.6% ahead of 2012 respectively.
Basic earnings per share grew by 52.5%.
It is a testament to the quality of the management team that these results were achieved concurrently with a very successful IPO process.
The strength of the Groups balance sheet improved with the 55 million primary proceeds of the IPO being used to repay fully all outstanding debt.
Garry Watts Cash generation continues to be strong which, I am Chairman delighted to say, allows the Board to recommend the payment of the first dividend as a listed company.
New branches opening Central to our growth strategy is the organic expansion of the Foxtons estate agency brand throughout London.
Since the start of 2010 we have opened 20 new branches in London, with seven in the last year.
We now operate from 44 branches and we plan to continue to expand with the addition of between five and 10 new branches each year.
I am pleased to note that all of the new branches opened in 2013 are performing in line with our expectations.
2 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013
