Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07 Chairmans statement Delivering shareholder returns Robin Broadhurst Chairman In the year our business has produced outperformance in UK asset values means The first year of our strong growth in asset values, substantially that the groups consolidated loan to value second century has seen increased profit and generated cash to LTV is now 48% 2012: 55%.
We have taken forward 2011 we have reduced our net debt by a total strong increases in asset opportunities in the private rented sector of 611m whilst increasing our NNNAV by and our first build-to-rent scheme at 152m 23%.
London Road, Barking is already under construction.
We have also been creating Dividends As I wrote in my new, and reinforcing existing, strategic The directors have recommended a final statement last year, alliances with high quality partners.
dividend of 1.46p per ordinary share 2012: 1.37p to be paid on 7 February 2014 These arrangements enhance our returns.
Grainger continues to be to shareholders on the register at close of business on 20 December 2013.
The total Results uniquely placed to take a Triple net asset value NNNAV rose 38p dividend for the year will therefore be leading role in what is a 2.04p per ordinary share 2012:1.92p, an 24% to 195p per share 2012: 157p.
Gross net asset value rose 19p 9% to 242p increase of 6.25%, following the interim dynamic and changing dividend of 0.58p per ordinary share per share 2012: 223p.
The composition of our profit reflects 2012: 0.55p.
The dividend is covered residential sector.
our evolution into a lower geared business.
Recurring profit has increased to 37.0m Board changes 2012: 34.6m, with reduced interest cost more than outweighing reduced As announced during the year, there have been two changes since 30 September operating profit on a less capital intensive asset base.
Henry Pitman retired from the board at our Annual General Meeting on gains and positive movement on interest rate derivatives, our pre-tax profit rose 6 February 2013 and I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his contribution significantly to 64.3m after a year-onyear favourable movement of 39.1m on to the group during his six-year tenure.
Simon Davies was appointed to the board derivatives 2012: loss of 1.7m.
In line with our stated strategy, we on 20 November 2012 and we are already benefiting from his wealth of experience, continued to reduce net debt which fell in the period by 235m from 1,194m to 959m.
including that gained during his 17 years at This reduction combined with our continued 08 Grainger plc Strategic report September German election result, whilst a Our strategy and our business reflect the Chairmans statement coalition is yet to be confirmed, is a sign of changing dynamics of the residential market continued stability in the Eurozones largest economy and the current point in the market cycle.
which bodes well for the future of assets We will use our core skills trading, managing, Threadneedle Investments which included which we own either directly or indirectly investing, developing and fund management in Germany.
and our agility to take advantage of the the roles of chief executive and chairman.
The Government support for the owner opportunities presented by these changes.
occupied market has been very evident in In the past year we have managed the Fair, balanced and understandable The board has concluded that the 2013 2013.
The Help to Buy scheme has enabled composition of profit between trading, more buyers to access mortgage finance rents and fees and attained another key Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary and this will continue as the scheme is objective of reducing net debt and LTV.
Local housing market price The deleveraging resulted in a higher level information for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model performance will however continue to of property sales in 2013 compared to 2012. experience variations driven by housing Adjusting for the effect of profit from sales and strategy.
supply and demand, which in turn is driven from tenanted property, the proportion of by the strength of the local economy.
net rents and gross fees compared to rents, Review of business development andprospects A review of the performance and The Government has also been fees and trading profits from vacant sales increasing its support of the private rented in 2013 is 54% 2012: 59%.
We intend to development of the business during the year, the position of the group at the year sector, introducing two major financial increase our income from net rents and fees incentive schemes to help stimulate growth over the coming years, taking advantage end and its future prospects, is set out in the sections of the Annual Report from and investment in the sector.
These are of the groups in-depth expertise and the 1bn build-to-rent fund and 10bn of operating platforms.
Details of the groups KPIs are Government Housing Guarantees to support Having achieved a net debt position of growth in the rental sector.
In addition, it has 959m and loan to value of 48% we are provided on pages 20 and 21.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties also established a specialist Private Rented within a range of gearing of 45%50% Sector PRS Taskforce to support growth which we feel is appropriate in the medium facing the group and how these are mitigated can be found on pages 30 to 33. in the sector, comprising experts from the term.
We believe that LTV, rather than private sector with residential experience absolute debt levels, will be a more relevant Additional information on environmental matters, on employees, tenants and including the secondment of a senior measure through which we can manage manager from Grainger.
We will continue the capital structure.
Whilst mindful of partners and on social and community matters is set out on pages 42 to 53. to engage closely with the Government maintaining appropriate leverage, we are and Taskforce and are confident that we now in a position, with headroom of 292m Outlook will benefit from these financial incentive and on-going cash generation, to take schemes in due course.
advantage of opportunities that are aligned The last few years have shown our ability to outperform when market conditions We have positioned the business both with the strategy outlined above so long to take advantage of the positive changes as they generate acceptable returns for our are challenging.
Our results for 2013 show us continuing to outperform in in the owner occupied market through our shareholders.
In this context we are pleased reversionary portfolio and the private rented to confirm that we will pursue a progressive strengthening markets.
The major housing market indices sector through our market rental portfolio dividend policy.
including both assets on our balance Our centenary year has been another Nationwide and Halifax show that national UK house prices have strengthened sheet and in funds and joint ventures.
My thanks go to Whilst taking this positive stance we have our highly skilled, enthusiastic and committed on average over the twelve months to 30 September 2013 by 5.6%.
also further protected the group from the staff whose efforts have allowed us to reach effect of any future cooling of the markets this position.
Transaction volumes have also increased, with the Council of Mortgage Lenders by reducing leverage.
We see 2014 as being a year of continuing strength in our markets and we CML reporting gross mortgage lending at an estimated 16.2bn in September 2013, Strategy and financial position anticipate another year of outperformance.
Grainger is a specialist residential company.
The UK economy is showing more general signs Our objective is to be a leader in the residential market, delivering sustainable of growth with GDP showing an increase of 0.8% in Q3 2013, up by 1.5% from Q3 long-term returns to our investors and our Robin Broadhurst partners from a combination of sales, rents 2012.
The issues around the Euro, whilst Chairman not yet fully resolved, have abated and the and fee income.
