Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Michael Harper Chairman BBA Aviation made good progress in 2013, continuing to demonstrate its key strengths.
The Group delivered further marketoutperformance and an improvement in key operating metrics, as well as continuing to effectively execute the Groups growth strategy.
Results In 2013 the Group delivered a good financial performance with 2% revenue growth to Go to pages 1819 $2,218.6 million, a 4% increase in underlying operating profit to $200.1 million and a 9% Key performance increase in basic adjusted earnings per share to 30.5 cents.
In line with the cash generative Indicators nature of the business we saw continued good cash conversion of 101% and a 21% increase For further detail about in free cash flow, supporting the Groups on-going creation of investment capacity.
on invested capital increased by 20 basis points to 10.0% despite investment in the year in key expansion projects which are expected to generate superior returns over the longer term.
We continued to make further strategic progress with $150 million of investments supporting the continued expansion of the Flight Support network and the growing portfolio of Aftermarket licences and authorisations.
Organisational change At the beginning of 2013 we consolidated operational management into two divisions: Flight Support and Aftermarket Services.
We have been pleased by the Groups successful transition to this new structure, which has been effective at encouraging cross-business opportunities through sharing best practice, standardising processes and practices and optimising management and support structures.
We continue to see good potential for accessing further improvement in 2014 and beyond.
In February 2014 we announced the sale of APPH to Hroux-Devtek Inc for $128 million.
Go to page 48 APPH was the only part of BBA Aviation that focused on product design and development, APPH with significant manufacturing activities and a higher fixed cost base than the rest of the For further detail about Group.
The disposal enhances the Groups strategic focus, as well as delivering good value the disposal of APPH.
Further to the disposal of APPH, we intend to return the net cash proceeds to shareholders by way of a $125 million share repurchase programme.
Dividend The Board is proposing a final dividend of 11.00 cents per share 2012: 10.45 cents per share, taking the full year dividend to 15.40 cents per share 2012: 14.65 cents per share.
This is a 5% increase and reflects the Boards progressive dividend policy and continuing confidence in the Groups medium-term growth prospects.
indb 6 12 03 2014 12:10 Strategic Report Corporate governance and the Board Chairmans Statement The Board is firmly committed to maintaining high standards in all matters of corporate governance and believes that good corporate governance is a major contributor to the Go to pages 5968 Corporate Governance delivery of strong Group operating and financial performance.
Statement For further detail about how we During the course of 2013 there were a number of changes to the Board.
Hansel Tookes and have applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Mark Harper stepped down as non-executive directors to focus on their increasing personal Code and the Boards approach to succession planning.
In August we welcomed Wayne Edmunds as a non-executive director and in December we welcomed Sir Nigel Rudd as Deputy Chairman, with the intention that he will succeed me as Chairman following my retirement from the Board in May 2014.
In March 2014 we announced that Mark Hoad, Group Finance Director would be standing down from the Board on 30 June after nine years with the Group.
Mark has played an important role in the successful transformation of BBA Aviation into a focused aviation services and aftermarket business and in its continuing strategic and operational progress.
We thank him for his significant contribution to the Group over the last nine years and wish him every success for the future.
Employees Our performance in the year reflects the expertise, hard work and commitment of our Go to pages 5055 people.
They are central to BBA Aviations on-going success and we are focused on ensuring Corporate Social that they are valued and empowered in a safe and sustainable environment.
We continued Responsibility to see good progress against our environmental metrics however, disappointingly, following For more information about how six years of improvement our performance against our key safety metrics plateaued in 2013 our people put our values into action with pride, performing and our focus is now shifting to behavioural based safety to help engage team members services for customers safely, responsibly and with integrity.
in safety best practices, culture and behaviours that will in turn help us deliver our goal of zero incidents.
It is with regret that I report that an incident at one of our Signature sites in December resulted in the death of one of the BBA Aviation team.
The situation is being investigated by the authorities and we are co-operating fully with that investigation and conducting our own in parallel.
Safety is the critical value for BBA Aviation any incident is a reminder of how vital it is that we all take responsibility to promote a proactive and preventative approach to safety.
Outlook While inputs in ERO are expected to remain subdued in 2014, and growth in Legacy will pause following the completion of several major contracts in 2013, North American B&GA flying, although still volatile, is showing some signs of a recovery.
This, together with the incremental contribution from strategic investments already announced, an additional $24m of acquisitions and new licences agreed since year-end, continuing operational improvements and a solid investment pipeline, gives us confidence that 2014 will be another year of progress for BBA Aviation.
Over the longer term, the underlying strengths of our market-leading businesses, the continuing improvement in their operational performance and the structural growth and consolidation in our major markets give us increasing confidence in our ability to generate superior through-cycle returns.
I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to my fellow directors and to all at BBA Aviation for what has been a very rewarding nine years with the Company.
I am delighted to hand over to such a well-respected and experienced successor and wish BBA Aviation the very best on the next stage of its exciting journey.
Michael Harper Chairman 07 BBA complete.
