Chairmans statement Strong revenue growth and margin improvement, reflecting improved transactional activity in many of our key markets together with robust Property Management and Consultancy operations, underpinned the Groups strong performance in 2013 and demonstrates the benefit of the business development activities of recent years.
02 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Results 2013 and has resulted in a highly successful combination of The Groups underlying profit before tax for the year increased capabilities and skills from each of the historic businesses by 28% to 75.2m 2012: 58.6m restated for IAS 19, on merging into a well functioning single operation.
The benefits of revenue which improved by 12% to 904.8m 2012: 806.4m.
this merger have already become apparent in a number of areas, The Groups reported profit before tax increased by 35% to most particularly in Savills ability to marshall many different skills 70.1m 2012: 52.0m restated for IAS 19. from across the business to identify and support complex client projects.
The costs of this merger together with a small number Overview of restructuring activities in Europe gave rise to an aggregate 2013 demonstrated the importance of Savills position in the restructuring cost of 5.2m 2012: 4.0m during the year.
prime markets of the worlds key cities and the benefits of the progressive growth strategy we have pursued in recent years.
The Boards ongoing focus on improving margin continued to Our Transaction Advisory revenue grew by 16%, our Consultancy drive an increase in profitability, with the Groups underlying business revenue by 11% and our Property Management revenue pre-tax profit margin advancing to 8.3% from 7.3% in 2012. by 9%.
Many of the principal commercial markets in which we Considerable performance improvement in the broader UK operate experienced an exceptionally strong finish to the year, market, together with the reduction in losses in Continental including a record performance in the UK where Savills advised Europe and the US, represented the principal contributors on over a third of all commercial office investment transactions to the overall increase in margin.
Our Residential business also continued to benefit from a strong market particularly in Prime Central London.
In Board Asia, strong performances in Japan, mainland China, Korea Due to other commitments, Clare Hollingsworth has indicated her and Australia outweighed the effect of a substantial reduction intention to retire from the Board at the end of the next Annual in transaction volumes in Hong Kong and Singapore.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank her for her considerable contribution during her time at Savills both In Continental Europe, an improvement in economic conditions as a Director and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
benefited our predominantly transaction orientated businesses with revenue increasing by 16% and overall losses reduced by Following Clares retirement, Tim Freshwater has kindly agreed to 44% in line with our original aspirations for the year.
take on the chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board is now commencing a search for Clares replacement.
Cordea Savills, the Groups Investment Management business, delivered a solid performance across its European platform Dividends increasing Assets Under Management AUM by 17% and An initial interim dividend of 3.5p per share 2012: 3.3p winning some high quality mandates, which drove an increase amounting to 4.5m was paid on 14 October 2013, and a final in revenue of 11%.
ordinary dividend of 7.0p 2012: 6.7p is recommended, making the ordinary dividend 10.5p for the year 2012: 10.0p.
In addition, Business development a supplemental interim dividend of 8.5p 2012: 6.0p is declared, Savills strategy is to be a leading adviser in the key markets in based upon the underlying performance of our Transaction which we operate.
Our global strategy is delivered locally by Advisory business.
Taken together, the ordinary and those close to the market with flexibility to adapt quickly to supplemental dividends comprise an aggregate distribution for changes in circumstances and opportunities.
They are supported the year of 19.0p per share, representing an increase of 19% on by our regional and cross-border investment and occupier the 2012 aggregate dividend of 16.0p.
The final ordinary dividend service specialists.
Over the last few years we have acquired a of 7.0p per ordinary share will, subject to shareholders approval number of small businesses and added teams and individual at the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2014, be paid hires to our strong core business, particularly when markets alongside the supplemental interim dividend of 8.5p per share have been weak.
on 21 May 2014 to shareholders on the register at 22 April 2014.
During the year the Board considered the longer term strategic People and geographic development of the business in the context of On behalf of the Board, I wish to express my thanks to all both investment and occupier markets which are becoming our people worldwide for their hard work, commitment and increasingly global in outlook and service requirement.
We continued focus on client service, enabling the Group to concluded that the current strategy of focused geographic and deliver a very strong performance in 2013. service expansion, both organically and by acquisition, is the right approach.
As part of this, we have considered how best to build Outlook on Savills capabilities in the US and will continue to investigate We have made a solid start to 2014 with performance in line with options for expansion in that market.
In addition, we have looked management expectations.
In the UK, we expect continuing at expanding the geographical coverage of the Cordea Savills demand for London property and recovery in the regional markets investment management platform.
During the year Cordea Savills although availability of commercial stock, in particular, is increasingly took its first step outside Europe with the agreement to acquire a challenge.
In Asia, whilst we expect the reduction in trading Merchant Capital KK, a small investment management firm in volumes in Hong Kong to persist for at least the first half of the year, Tokyo with approximately 250m AUM.
The acquisition is this will be mitigated, in part, by the strength of other regions across expected to complete in the second quarter of 2014.
We also expect to show a continued improvement in our businesses in Continental Europe and the US.
Looking ahead, we At the beginning of 2013 we merged the two principal Savills are well positioned with a clear strategy for extending the depth businesses in the UK to form Savills UK Limited.
In conjunction and breadth of our services in the worlds key markets.
with the merger, the decision was taken to move the two head offices in the West End of London into one new head office at Peter Smith 33 Margaret Street.
This took place between May and June Chairman Savills plc 03 Report and Accounts 2013
