Strategic Report Challenges still Chairmans exist but the 82.2m Statement profit before all tax Company isalready busier than it was 10% 12months ago increase in final dividend and there is a greater sense ofoptimism across our portfolio and momentum in the market place.
it has been another very good year for Works to the first phase of Swansea the Company, with excellent growth universitys 450m bay Campus project resulting in a significant rise in profits commenced in May 2013 and are well across the Group.
We are extremely proud to tax increased by 56% to 82.2m be working with the university on such 2012: 52.8m with shareholders equity a prestigious project, which forms part net asset value per share growing 11% of our extensive regenerative work in to 279p per share 2012: 251p per South Wales.
share, after paying dividends of 3.75p in November, Key Property investments during the year 2012: 3.41p.
KPi, our 50 50 joint venture with Salhia We have made good progress with all of Real Estate Co. K. S. C. disposed of the our major schemes across the country Elephant & Castle Shopping Centre for over the last 12 months, each one 80m.
the sale, which was achieved well illustrating a key facet of our business above book value, crystallised significant model and demonstrating its strength.
profits for our shareholders whilst freeing up our people and capital resources to We completed a successful equity focus on other significant regeneration placing in March 2013, which raised and development projects in london gross proceeds of 49m.
the funds will andacross the regions.
be used to maximise the potential of the development of the New Covent Garden After a year of exceptional delivery Market land in the medium-term without at longbridge, we were delighted to increasing our debt levels.
announce in december 2013 the pre-let of a 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer store on the second phase of the town Centre.
this project is a testament to how our transformational developments serve as true catalysts for change and breathe new life into areas in need of regeneration across the uK.
the improvement in the residential market continued during the year, with profits and sales rates from our residential operations reflecting this upward trend.
18 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 diVidENd boARd ChANGES PRoSPECtS in recent years, we have raised our We have continued to strengthen the Even at the height of the recession, we dividends broadly in line with the property expertise on the board and remained confident of the prospects increases in net asset value and to reflect were delighted to welcome Richard for the Company.
Whilst we still remain the strong results.
this is again the case Mully as a non-executive director in cautious about the overall economic th for the year ended 30 November 2013 September 2013.
Richard brings with outlook in the uK and Europe, we with your board recommending a 10% him a wealth of experience in real estate have a long track record of successful increase in the final dividend for the year investment, having spent almost 30 regeneration, strong asset management to 2.67p per share 2012: 2.42p, making years in investment banking, capital and creating value from our extensive a total distribution for the year of 4.00p markets and real estate private equity land bank.
the final dividend will be investing.
Richard was appointed Senior with our robust business model and th paid on 4 April 2014 to shareholders on independent director in december 2013. strategy to deliver strong returns, puts th the register at 7 March 2014. us in an excellent position to remain PEoPlE resilient against continued economic We intend for this dividend policy to and market challenges whilst benefitting despite the challenges of the last few continue, subject to considering the strongly from the improving residential years, St. Modwen is now strongly impact of one-off events in the year, and commercial markets.
positioned to take advantage of the positive or negative, as they occur.
upturn that is making its way across With this increased optimism in the StRAtEGy theuK commercial and residential market place, we are expanding our markets.
this would not have been development pipeline to capture value through our market-leading expertise, possible without the energy, skill and across the uK.
this year we expect we add value through remediation, dedication of our people.
therefore, the regional residential market place progressing assets through the iwould like to take this opportunity on to continue to recover gradually and planning process and proactive asset behalf of the board to say thank you london and the South East to remain management and development.
toall employees for their hard work robust.
We will therefore maintain our Specifically, our regional teams anddetermination in continuing to focus on this sector throughout 2014 focus on opportunities where our deliver strong performance and create to capitalise on the strong returns that skill in regeneration enables us to long-term value for our shareholders.
Similarly, we add significant long-term value and are witnessing a cautious recovery in generate profits in both commercial commercial property and consequently, andresidential development.
will also be focusing on progressing As shown by this years strong set opportunities in this market during of results, and our proven ability to the year.
deliver good returns across the cycle, Challenges still exist but the Company our strategy is working.
We expect is already busier than it was 12 months this success to continue into 2014 ago and there is a greater sense of as the property market steadily optimism across our portfolio and gathers momentum.
momentum in the market place.
With our our decision to allocate additional strong financial base, we look forward to resource to the residential sector growing the business steadily throughout securing predominantly residential-led 2014 and beyond to generate further planning permissions across our portfolio value for our shareholders.
while continuing to grow our own housebuilding brand St. Modwen homes and progressing our Persimmon joint venture has proved successful as the bill Shannon regional market place is now showing Chairman meaningful signs of improvement.
in addition, the improved market rd 3 February 2014 conditions in the london and South East property market are ongoing.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 19
