231283 UKCPT pp01-pp18NEW 21 03 2014 10:26 Page 5 Chairmans Statement With its prime portfolio of prices rising, the wider recovery in the UK economy now seems assets and strong tenant firmly entrenched.
Crucially, business investment is also now base, I am pleased to expanding with corporations more confident about future report that the Company profitability a key requirement for sustained expansion.
was well positioned to take Commercial Property Market advantage of the strong re-rating of the UK The last 12 months have seen a marked change in sentiment commercial property sector towards UK commercial property.
The Company modest decline in capital values, by the second half of the year this delivered a NAV total return trend had been reversed as an increasingly wide range of investors of 13.2%, ahead of the IPD sought to acquire a limited amount of suitable available stock.
The UK commercial property sector recorded a total return of Encouragingly, the positive 10.7% in the year to end 31 December 2013 according to the IPD return was not only due to benchmark.
The vast majority of the 4.5% capital return occurred the superior income return from the Companys property in the second half of the year, while income returns remained portfolio, but also valuation increases which delivered a capital relatively stable at 6.0%.
Improved valuation yields continued to be the major force behind The Companys shares produced an impressive total return of capital growth as investor demand served to drive down yields 25.7% in the year, significantly outperforming the IPD benchmark, across the major sectors.
Importantly, there is evidence that the FTSE REIT Index total return of 19.6% and the overall UK equity demand for stock and resultant yield compression is now spreading market, the FTSE All Share returned 20.8% over the same period.
from the key London and South East markets to regional markets.
These returns not only highlight the current attractiveness of the asset class, but also reflect the underlying strength of the Significant Property Transactions Companys portfolio and tenant base, further demonstrated by There were a number of significant property transactions to the the Companys shares trading at a premium to NAV of 5.3% at date of this statement as set out below: 31 December 2013 8.2% premium as at 28th February 2014 Sale of 2-8 Buchanan Street, Glasgow for 10.45 million in compared to a discount of 5.5% at the end of 2012.
January 2013: Over the longer term, the Company has consistently Purchase of a multi-let industrial estate at Newtons Court, outperformed on both a NAV and share price basis against the IPD Crossways Business Park, Dartford, Kent for 17.93 million benchmark, returning 47.2% and 107.5% respectively against an excluding costs and stamp duty in June 2013, increasing IPD benchmark total return of 44.4% over five years.
exposure to the sector in the favoured South East region: The Companys portfolio strategy is to invest across all commercial Sale of 84-86 Bushey Road, Raynes Park, London in July sectors in a balance of institutional grade assets with strong 2013 for 7.25 million removing one of the largest voids in covenants and modest capital expenditure requirements that also the portfolio: offer the prospect of value enhancing asset management Sale of Charter Place, Uxbridge in December 2013 at a price opportunities.
significantly ahead of its most recent valuation of The Companys investment objective remains to provide 22.0 million, reducing development risk and cutting the shareholders with an attractive level of income as well as the portfolios void position by almost 2.5%: potential for capital growth.
The re-basing of the dividend payable Exchange of conditional missives in January 2014 for the by the Company to a more sustainable level, announced on purchase of three pre-let properties by way of forward 4 February 2014, will allow the Company to invest in properties funding and forward purchase commitments, up to that will, in aggregate, form a portfolio with a better balance 48.3 million on the Aberdeen Gateway Business Park, between income and capital growth potential.
Economic Background These transactions have reduced development income risk and The UK economy now appears to be on a solid upward trend and, voids within the portfolio 4.4% as at 31 December 2013 and according to the Office of National Statistics, is estimated to have highlight the significant progress that has been made in grown by 1.9% in 2013.
This expansion was broad-based with repositioning the portfolio in line with the agreed portfolio Manufacturing, Production, Services and Construction all making strategy set out in the Managers report.
The latest UK Purchasing Manager Index PMI indicators also remain positive, with the Borrowing PMIs Services index in particular remaining well ahead of its As at 31 December 2013 the Companys gross gearing was 20.7%, long-term average.
With business and consumer confidence comfortably the lowest in the Companys peer group and with an continuing to improve, unemployment levels falling and house attractive blended interest rate of 3.85% based on current UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 5 231283 UKCPT pp01-pp18NEW 21 03 2014 10:26 Page 6 Chairmans Statement continued margins.
The Company also has cash resources that can be utilised that Ignis has in place will ensure that the Companys shareholders for future acquisitions or asset management opportunities, net of will receive the full benefits and protection envisaged by the AIFMD.
the Aberdeen Gateway commitment referred to above.
In addition to the above, it has been agreed that the fee payable to the Manager will be reduced to 0.65% of total assets from 1 July Dividends 2014 subject to regulatory approval, a reduction of approximately The Company declared and paid the following dividends during 7% based on the 31 December 2013 NAV.
This fee reduction also the period: takes into account the additional services that the Manager will provide in relation to AIFMD.
Payment Date Dividend per 2013 share p Board Changes 4th interim for prior period Feb 1.3125 On 12 December 2013, following a systematic selection process, Mrs Sandra Plattswas appointed as a non-executive Director of the 1st interim May 1.3125 Company.
Mrs Platts, a resident of Guernsey, acts as a Director to 2nd interim Aug 1.3125 public and private financial services companies and brings skills that will complement and strengthen the skill set of the Board as a whole.
3rd interim Nov 1.3125 Mr Christopher Fish has announced his intention to retire at the Total 5.2500 2014 AGM scheduled for 17 June 2014.
The Board would like to thank him for the enormous contribution he has made in both A fourth interim dividend of 1.3125p was paid on 28 February 2014. developing and growing the Company since inception in 2006 The Companys dividend policy was set at launch in 2006 at a time and the insightful and knowledgeable manner in which he chaired of strong rental growth prospects.
However, the economic the Audit Committee.
downturn has significantly undermined rental growth and, despite Following Mr Fishs departure, Mr Ken McCullagh, a Chartered an improving economic outlook, the prospects for rental growth Accountant with significant financial experience in the real estate remain muted outside Central London.
While the Companys sector, will chair the Audit Committee.
balance sheet could have sustained the historic dividend level in the short term, ultimately this would have placed a strain on the Outlook Companys resources.
As a result, the Board concluded that rebasing the dividend to a more sustainable level of 0.92p per The UK economy is now firmly on the road to recovery with most share per quarter from Q1 2014 a reduction of 30% was the forecasters suggesting that 2014 GDP growth will be stronger than most prudent course of action.
the majority of the other major western economies.
The return to sustainable growth, however, coupled with the quicker than The new dividend level fully underpins the portfolio strategy and expected reduction in headline unemployment, presents a would have achieved approximately 106% cover had it applied in challenge for the Bank of England, which will have to judge when the year to 31 December 2013.
It also diversifies the future the economy can handle the withdrawal of the stimulus provided financing ability of the Company.
The shares will still provide a by historically low interest rates and quantitative easing.
The yield of 4.7% based on the share price at 28 February 2014 managing of expectations from businesses, consumers and remaining attractive when compared to the yield available from financial markets as the UK returns to a more normal monetary other asset classes.
policy environment will be crucial to the performance of the UK economy over the medium term.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD Improving capital values through yield compression are expected to continue to have a positive influence on total return in the short The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive creates a term.
Income, however, remains the key factor driving European-wide framework to regulate managers of Alternative performance over the longer term and the Companys portfolio, Investment Funds AIFs and came into force in July 2013. with its prime assets, income bias, quality tenant base and the A transitional period under the directive means that existing AIFs, Managers asset management skills, is in a strong position to take such as the Company, have until July 2014 to comply with the advantage of this outlook.
The AIFMD is intended to reduce systemic risk With good progress being made in relation to the portfolio created by the financial sector and aims to improve regulation, strategy, the rebasing of the dividend to a more sustainable level enhance transparency and investor protection and develop a and the more pleasing economic outlook, I believe that the single EU market for AIFs.
As such, full compliance with the Company is now in an excellent position to build on the progress Directive represents best practice for an AIF.
Following a review the Board was pleased to announce in February 2014, that it has decided to appoint Ignis Fund Managers Limited to Christopher M. W. Hill act as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager Chairman AIFM.
The Board is confident that the processes and procedures 19 March 2014 6 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
