HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS HIGHLIGHTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am delighted to report a strong set of results must be central to the way we operate, and we which underline the bene t of a strategy aligned have sought to build partnerships, create jobs and with a cyclical market.
A combination of 32% growth engage better with local communities across all in earnings in the year, an increase in cash due on of the business.
In addition, through the Berkeley forward sales to over 1.4 billion and continued Foundation, we have now committed nearly growth of the land bank means that Berkeley 3 million to more than 40 charities since 2011 and remains on track to meet the first 568 million delivered new jobs and skills training, helping tackle milestone payment by September 2015 under its important issues such as homelessness.
I want to ten year plan to return 1.7 billion to shareholders.
ensure that Berkeley embraces its role to build trust and empathy with its stakeholders and the In this context, I am pleased to report that the wider community and helps create employment Board has declared a further interim dividend of opportunities for those who most need it.
59 pence per share, payable in September 2013, which will count towards the first return and follows I am delighted with the contribution of our the payment of an interim dividend of 15 pence workforce to this years strong performance.
Berkeleys success is a direct result of the passion and dedication shown by all of our employees and The growth in earnings this year is a direct result I would like to take this opportunity to thank them of a period of sustained investment since early for this.
Their loyalty and hard work, across every 2009 during which Berkeley has committed site and every discipline, is the driving force over 1 billion to new land and 2.4 billion to behind the business and gives the company the construction and completed over 12,000 new stability and expertise which makes it strong.
homes in London and the South of England.
This investment has enabled us to regenerate derelict In terms of the Board, I am pleased to announce sites across the region, sustaining 16,000 jobs that Adrian Li will join the Company as a through increased activity and committing some Non-executive Director with effect from the Annual 250 million towards crucial local infrastructure General Meeting.
Adrian is currently the Deputy improvements including schools, surgeries, parks Chief Executive of The Bank of East Asia Limited.
An increasing supply of new and Alan Coppin has announced his intention to step affordable homes is crucial to supporting economic down as a Non-executive Director at the Annual recovery and needs inward investment to support General Meeting on 2 September 2013, having and finance this.
London in particular must remain served on the Board since 2006.
I would like to competitive on a global scale because it can and thank Alan for his contribution to the Company does attract investment from around the world and and welcome Adrian to the Board.
it is this investment which nances the provision of new homes of every tenure and in every price range.
We have positioned Berkeley with a clear, sustainable long-term plan.
I am con dent that Throughout this period of sustained growth, Berkeley can meet its objectives for delivering Berkeley has remained aware that it needs to returns to shareholders, but mindful of the risks balance its aims to be successful and sustainable that geopolitical events, regulation, increases in with a social purpose.
The challenges of creating taxation alongside an uncertain future tax policy exceptional places have given us a unique insight and even anti-competitive rhetoric can have on into how a company can create economic value the business and the wider housing market.
in a way that also creates value for society.
We understand that the pursuit of a shared value Tony Pidgley CBE Chairman We have positioned Berkeley with a clear, sustainable long-term plan BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 3
