Chairmans statement This was a successful year for the Company.
Investment activity Growth in Net Asset Value NAV was strong Investment levels were low this year, with and the portfolio continued to generate good 3i Infrastructure completing two new levels of income which covered our dividend.
We also delivered a realisation from the The Company invested 12 million in the portfolio at a good uplift to carrying value.
Dalmore Capital Fund, which is building a The Company faced some difficulties too.
portfolio of secondary PFI investments in In my outlook statement last year I said that theUK.
In addition, 5 million was invested conditions for investment were challenging inSupreme Roads, a portfolio of road BOT and markets were volatile.
Those conditions projects in India, through the 3i India persisted throughout this financial year, which Peter Sedgwick, Chairman Infrastructure Fund the India Fund.
led to a difficult environment for investment 8 May 2013 In addition to our new investments, significant and continued volatility in returns from the progress has been made on the Thameslink portfolio in India.
XLT transaction, which is approaching This was a successful year In its annual review of strategy this year nancialclose.
theBoard focused on the outlook for the for 3i Infrastructure, which As outlined in the Investment Advisers infrastructure market, on opportunities to build delivered a total return of review, there continues to be competition on the existing strengths of the business and forinfrastructure assets, as investors are portfolio and reected upon the changes to the 8.6% on shareholders equity attracted to investments that can provide market since the Companys financial targets and strong portfolio income.
stable income in a low interest rate were set back in 2007.
As a result, we are environment.
Price points, as a result, have rebalancing our investment strategy in favour Our investments in the remained high.
Against this backdrop, the of less volatile investments, reducing our European portfolio continued Board and Investment Adviser have retained exposure to higher risk hybrid investments in their investment and pricing discipline.
India over time, and therefore updating our to perform in line with, or return objective to an annual measure of 10% In keeping with our strategy of selling above, our expectations.
We are also increasing investments at attractive prices relative to our dividend objective to 5.5% of opening NAV.
The performance of the ourvaluations and of crystallising value for We believe these objectives reect the shareholders, the Company sold itsinvestment India Fund, however, continuing opportunity to develop further in Alpha Schools in March to a wholly-owned ourdiversied portfolio of infrastructure subsidiary of HICL Infrastructure Company continued to be affected by investments, which deliver long-term yield Limited.
The sale generated gross proceeds challenging conditions.
withthe potential for capital growth.
of 21.2 million and the Board was pleased to deliver a strong premium to the opening In its annual strategic update, Performance value of 18.5 million through the sale.
There is a detailed case study on page 13.
Looking at the financial performance in more the Board assessed the 3i Infrastructure also received proceeds of detail, the total comprehensive income Companys investment 6.9 million as a result of loan repayments attributable to the equity holders of the parent from Eversholt and Elgin.
the total return on a consolidated IFRS basis strategy in light of the likely was 92 million in the year to 31 March 2013. evolution of the portfolio in the Strategic update On an investment basis, which the Board also uses to monitor performance, the total return current market.
As a result of In its annual strategic update, the Board was 89 million, or 8.6% on shareholders assessed the Companys investment strategy this review, we updated our equity.
This return was delivered through and objectives in the context of developments the strong performance of the Companys return and dividend objectives in the infrastructure investment market, as European portfolio, which generated both well as of the performance of its portfolio.
good income and value growth in the year.
It concluded that the Company would make The European portfolios strong returns were We are confident that we have no new investments in India and would partly offset by the weaker performance of the focus its future investment activity in core a strategy in place to deliver investments in the 3i India Infrastructure Fund, infrastructure and PPP in developed markets, which continued to be negatively affected by these objectives.
in particular in the UK and continental Europe.
adverse macroeconomic and market Over time, as the investments in the India Fund conditions.
are gradually realised, the portfolio will rebalance in favour of less volatile investments Dividend in core infrastructure and primary social infrastructure in Europe.
Reecting the strong income generation, the Board proposes a final dividend of 3.52p per share which, added to the interim dividend of2.97p per share, exceeds the 5% dividend objective for this year and represents 5.5% of opening NAV, in line with our new objective for future years.
6 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Overview As a result of the review of our strategy and Cash balances and liquidity Investment Adviser and the rebalancing of risk and reward across As at 31 March 2013, 3i Infrastructure had exclusivity arrangements the portfolio, the Board has decided to update cash balances of 179 million, of which the Companys return objective to an annual The Board has a Management Engagement 31 million will be used for the payment of measure of 10% NAV growth, of which Committee comprising all independent Board the proposed final dividend, 3 million to 5.5% is to be delivered through an annual members, which is tasked with managing new investment in Dalmore, 60 million to dividend.
The move to an annual total return the Companys relations with the Investment the Thameslink transaction and 25 million target, rather than a long-term target Adviser, including carrying out the annual for any residual cash calls by the 3i India based on full investment, recognises that evaluation of the Investment Adviser.
This Infrastructure Fund, although it is unlikely 3i Infrastructure is a mature company, whose evaluation concluded that, based on good that this amount will be drawn down in full.
performance target should be an annual performance, the continued appointment measure against an absolute return objective of the Investment Adviser is in the interest With a significant portion of the cash balances incorporating its funding requirements, of shareholders.
invested or committed, the Board looked to ratherthan a long-term objective based on secure the Companys liquidity in the medium In November 2012, the Company and the fullinvestment.
On 2 May 2013, the Company entered into Investment Adviser agreed an amendment a new, 200 million, three-year revolving credit The review validated the investment strategy to the Investment Advisory Agreement.
facility with a syndicate of five major banks.
and approach adopted thus far, which has This further extended the amount covered This new facility replaces the 200 million delivered a strong performance across the by the Agreement by 47 million, to cover facility entered into in November 2010, which Companys core and social infrastructure the cash balances available for investment was due to expire in November 2013, on portfolios.
The European portfolio has at 30 September 2012. improved terms.
As with the previous facility, consistently delivered capital and income the Board intends to use this liquidity as a returns in line with or, more often, ahead Outlook bridge to equity, to be renanced through of expectations, conrming the benets Looking forward, the Board is confident that equity issuance in due course.
of diversication within the portfolio.
the Company has a strategy in place to deliver This portfolio provides a solid bedrock for a 10% annual return and a dividend of 5.5% Corporate governance the future.
Core infrastructure markets will of opening NAV in the current climate, with offer significant opportunity for skilled andBoard reduced volatility.
As the investments in the investors, which we believe the Investment There were a number of changes to the Board India Fund are gradually realised, we will Adviser is well placed to access.
Charlotte Valeur served on the redeploy our capital in core infrastructure and We also believe that the PPP market will Board until 31 March 2013.
Paul Masterton was PPP, our key areas of strength, where we have offer attractive investment opportunities, appointed as a non-executive Director with built a market-leading track record of strategically aligned to our principles of effect from 4 April 2013.
I would like to express performance.
delivering income and potential for capital my gratitude to Charlotte for her valuable growth.
Investment in social and energy contribution as a Director, and welcome Paul infrastructure is at the heart of the Europeto the Board.
Paul, a Jersey resident, has spent wide political agenda to stimulate economic the majority of his career in the printing and growth.
Private sector funding is a key element communications industry, holding various in determining the success of these ambitions, appointments in the UK, the US and Asia.
as resource-constrained governments seek In May, Florence Pierre and Paul Waller to open up essential infrastructure through indicated that they wished to resign from the PPP-style transactions.
Board at the Companys AGM, to be held on The Company, through the Investment Adviser, 9 July 2013.
I would like to thank them also for is well positioned to access opportunities their valuable contribution.
Paul Waller will across these markets with its leading track be replaced by Ben Loomes as the 3i Group record of returns from core and PPP PFI nominated Director of the Company.
Ben will infrastructure investments, including stand for election at the Companys AGM in primary projects such as Alpha Schools July 2013. and Alma Mater.
The Board aims to uphold the highest Macroeconomic, market and regulatory standards of corporate governance and, in the conditions in India have been more challenging year under review, complied with all applicable than initially expected when the Company provisions of the UK Corporate Governance committed to the India Fund in 2007.
At the last Annual General Meeting, held investment has not, to date, delivered the on 10 July 2012, shareholders approved the premium risk adjusted returns that were re-election of all Directors to the Board.
expected and has brought unwelcome volatility to overall portfolio performance.
On this basis, the Board has decided that the Company will make no further new investment in India or emerging markets, lowering overall portfolio return volatility.
The key elements of our strategic update are outlined on pages 8 and 9.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 7
