Chairmans statement Roger Cornick Chairman Our investment approach has delivered another period of Operating costs increased by 14%, with some further targeted profitable growth, as anticipated in our half-year statement.
headcount additions in business development and risk teams and This is despite periods of volatility and weak market sentiment increased spend on marketing and name awareness: a key element during the second half of the year, which saw a broad sell-off of this was the launch in May of our brand refresh programme, across global markets, with some emerging economies being which has generated encouragingly positive feedback.
During the period under review, Aberdeen was fined 7.2 million Against this background, I am pleased to be able to report that, by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA for unintended past for the financial year to 30 September 2013, net revenue grew breaches of the UKs client assets regulations.
We discovered by 24%: underlying profit before taxation increased by 39%: the breach and reported it to the regulator and no client lost and underlying diluted earnings per share improved by 44% money as a result of the breaches.
An amount equivalent to the compared to the previous year.
7.2 million fine was deducted from the annual bonus pool before the bonus allocation process was initiated.
We completed two small infill acquisitions, for which we paid cash consideration: notwithstanding, we have added further Underlying operating profit, which is stated before amortisation of strength to our balance sheet and cash positions.
intangible assets and one-off acquisition costs related to the two deals, increased by 39% to 489.2 million 2012: 352.7 million All of this has enabled the Group to consolidate its position as and the operating margin improved further to 45.4% 2012: a constituent of the FTSE 100 index, which we entered for the 40.6%.
After deduction of acquisition costs and amortisation, first time in 2012, with the market capitalisation having grown to statutory profit before tax increased by 45% to 390.3 million.
4.5 billion by the current year end, and to increase the ordinary dividend paid to our shareholders: we propose a total dividend We have added further strength to the balance sheet, with for the year of 16.0p per share, a 39% increase on 2012. a year-end net cash position of 426.6 million 2012: 266.4 million.
This has been achieved mainly from strong operating cash Financial highlights flow, aided by the conversion to equity, early in the financial year, of the remaining convertible bonds.
We refinanced our perpetual Net revenue for the year of 1,078.5 million was 24% higher capital securities, with the existing $400 million 7.9% perpetual than in 2012, with healthy growth in recurring management fees capital securities being repaid in May from the proceeds of a supplemented by increased performance fee income.
Some 95% $500 million issue of 7.0% perpetual cumulative capital notes.
of net revenue was earned from recurring fees, and the blended The new securities form part of the Groups regulatory capital.
average management fee rate increased to 50.0 basis points 2012: 45.1 basis points.
Dividend per share 16.0p 39% 2012: 11.5p 6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview By serving our customers well, we firmly believe that we will also deliver healthy returns for our shareholders in the coming year.
Dividend The Board is recommending a final dividend of 10.0p per share, The Group has reorganised its solutions capability.
This includes making a total payment for the year of 16.0p per share, an the transfer of the property multi manager team into this asset increase of 39% on the total payment for 2012.
As previously class and forming a new investment function to encompass stated, the Board is committed to a progressive dividend policy.
the provision of market research, portfolio construction and risk management.
Investment The changes that we have made to our direct property The last year has been a challenging but productive period for investment process and fund ranges in recent years are starting the Groups investment divisions.
The Groups equity process has to bear fruit and have been well received by our clients and by served our clients well over the long term, but we recognise that investment consultants.
there will be periods when portfolios underperform.
It is at these times that we emphasise to our teams the importance of adhering New business to their long-term convictions.
Despite the economic headwinds that Aberdeen and the wider Our fixed income business has strengthened its approach to macro market have experienced, the Group has continued to generate and credit research, implementing best practice across our teams healthy new business wins.
The momentum of flows has been in the UK, US, Asia Pacific and Brazil.
The progress made over the biased towards higher margin pooled funds which are now 49% past 12 months means that we are better placed to address the of total AuM and have been sourced principally from our core needs of investors in the coming years.
Many of our fixed income equity product offerings.
However, a growing proportion of flows strategies have outperformed over the past year which has fed have come into other asset classes and products such as emerging into the longer-term numbers.
market debt, high yield bonds and property.
We would expect this trend to continue as investors focus on yield and tailored solutions.
Highlights 2013 2012 Net revenue 1,078.5m 869.2m Pre-tax profit Before acquisition costs and amortisation of intangibles 482.7m 347.8m After acquisition costs and amortisation of intangibles 390.3m 269.7m Diluted earnings per share Before acquisition costs and amortisation of intangibles 32.5p 22.6p After acquisition costs and amortisation of intangibles 26.2p 17.6p Total dividend per share 16.0p 11.5p Gross new business 43.9bn 36.0bn Net new business 2.5bn 0.0bn Assets under management at the year end 200.4bn 187.2bn aberdeen-asset.
com 7 Gross new business of 43.9 billion was added during the year, We believe that these capabilities along with emerging market sourced from investors in EMEA ex.
UK 40%, the Americas debt, European equities and property are areas where we have 23%, the UK 19%, and Asia Pacific 18%.
Full year net a sustainable and competitive advantage and are scalable over outflows were 2.5 billion.
Notwithstanding the weaker sentiment experienced in emerging The Board markets to which, as a large investor in the region, Aberdeen was I would like to take the opportunity to thank my colleagues on not immune, our global emerging market GEM equity offering the Board who have, once again, made invaluable contributions saw healthy net inflows for the year of 1.7 billion.
We believe that to its effective operation during the year under review.
We the measures we have taken to manage capacity within our GEM continue to refresh and strengthen membership of the Board and, product remain appropriate as we continue to see healthy interest in addition to the changes announced in my half year statement, for this asset class over the medium term.
Appetite for Asian and I am very happy to welcome to the Board Akira Suzuki who was global equities has also remained strong with investor demand proposed by Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation to expanding to other regional capabilities such as Japanese equities.
I would like to record special thanks to Mr Miyanaga, who resigned just before the year end, for the Our fixed income and money market asset class, despite an considerable contribution he has made over the three years overall outflow for the year of 5.4 billion, has continued to show that he served on the Board.
healthy signs of improvement both in terms of new business and performance.
Higher margin strategies, such as emerging market I would also like to welcome our new colleagues from both debt and high yield, saw healthy net inflows during the year.
Aberdeen SVG and Artio, who joined us in May 2013.
Within solutions, our multi asset and fund of private equity We hold firmly to the view that our continuing ability to deliver products experienced net inflows.
We also saw the launch of healthy returns to shareholders will be achieved by all aspects of a European Secondaries Property Fund of Funds.
In contrast, the Groups operations providing the highest level of service to our our long-only and fund of hedge funds strategies experienced customers and, on behalf of the Board, I thank all of our staff for net outflows and contributed to net outflows of 2.7 billion their continued dedication and hard work, without which this for this asset class.
Despite the controlled wind down of legacy German open end On a more sombre note, it is with considerable sadness that we property funds, we have continued to see investor interest in record the passing of four long-standing Aberdeen colleagues our property capability reflected in a number of mandate wins Andrew McMenigall, Magne ksdal, Toby Wallace and Barry some not yet funded - during the year.
Shortly after the financial Walters.
They will be sadly missed and our thoughts remain year end we were awarded a 470 million Danish property with their families and friends.
Aberdeen is the fourth largest European property manager, according to Property Funds Research.
Outlook While we believe that markets and investor sentiment may Distribution remain volatile for the foreseeable future, we have entered a Our main focus remains on markets with the largest asset pools, new financial year in a strong financial position and remain well particularly the Americas and Europe including the UK.
In addition placed to continue the Groups profitable growth.
Our priorities to the brand refresh, we supported our distribution efforts with our have not changed: we will continue to apply our focused, longfirst global advertising campaign.
term investment process and seek further diversification of our assets under management and revenue streams.
In this context, We have strengthened our distribution team by adding business we look forward to realising the considerable potential of the development staff in the US, Germany and Switzerland.
In strategic relationship with Lloyds Banking Group, which we November, we opened an office in Madrid, enhancing our ability announced on 18 November.
to service clients in a country where we have been active for over ten years.
To support our priority of promoting our wider capabilities and products, we undertook two infill acquisitions, Artio Global Investors and a controlling stake in Aberdeen SVG.
These R C Cornick acquisitions, which have been fully integrated into the wider Chairman Group, have, respectively, added high quality teams and established capabilities to our US and global fixed income strategies and funds of private equity businesses.
They complement our organic efforts to broaden and strengthen our distribution channels and product mix.
8 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
