oveRvieW chAiRMAns stAteMent Regulation i AM delighted With the stARt the neW As with all businesses in our industry, regulation provides MAnAgeMent teAM hAs MAde in tuRning challenges and opportunities.
Adverse regulatory changes in the year meant we restricted access to our products in a number of the Business ARound.
countries in which we had previously built up significant businesses.
geRAld coRBett, chAiRMAn Recent positive regulatory changes in Italy, Spain and the USA are welcomed and Betfair will continue to strive to grow sustainable revenues in countries with sensible regulatory regimes.
Board During the year, Stephen Morana stepped down from his role as an Executive Director on the Board.
Stephen had held a number of roles over ten years at the Company, notably Chief Financial Officer and interim Chief Executive Officer.
In October, Baroness Denise Kingsmill resigned as a Non-Executive Director and, as previously announced, Josh Hannah has informed the Board of his intention to step down in the coming months.
I would like to thank all three for their substantial contributions to the Company.
In addition to Breon Corcoran, I am delighted to welcome Alexander Gersh as our new Chief Financial Officer CFO, and Peter Jackson as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee.
Both bring with them a wealth of experience in competitive, international, growth businesses and will be valuable additions to our Company.
Dear Shareholder, Having enjoyed tremendous growth over its first decade, Dividend the Company failed to maintain this momentum in the first As indicated at the time of our interim results the Directors plan few years of its public market life.
Faced with some serious to maintain a progressive and sustainable dividend policy with challenges in a highly competitive market, the Company had an appropriate level of dividend cover.
This dividend policy to change course or risk losing further ground to our competitors.
reflects the strong cash flow characteristics and long-term This turnaround required a strong leadership team and a strategy earnings potential of the Betfair Group and will allow it to retain to return the business to growth.
I am happy to say that the sufficient capital to fund ongoing operating requirements and business now has both.
continued investment for long-term growth.
The Board considers the appropriate target payout ratio Strategy to be approximately 40% of underlying profit after tax Breon Corcoran joined as Chief Executive Officer CEO in August in the medium term.
and outlined a new strategic direction for Betfair in December.
We are now investing only in markets with regulatory visibility The Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.0 pence, which and are introducing a simpler product offering to appeal to results in a full year dividend up 27% to 13.0 pence per share.
At the same time, Betfair is becoming a leaner, more dynamic organisation.
We have a new management Recent events team in place with many highly talented additions with relevant In April we received an approach to take Betfair private.
track records of delivering growth.
Under their leadership much A number of proposals were put to the Board, all of which has already been achieved and the foundations of positive change were rejected.
Betfair has struggled in its early years as a public have been laid.
company, but the Board believes it now has the management and the strategy to succeed and that the early signs are positive.
Financial performance During the discussions, our capital structure and cash balances, The financial performance in the year has been encouraging and their implication for our cost of capital, were considered.
We have begun the essential process The Board was able to confirm its commitment to using them of replacing unregulated revenues with revenue from regulated to support the executive team in executing its strategy and in jurisdictions.
While this affects growth in the short term, this way to move to a more efficient balance sheet.
Our new the quality of earnings is higher.
team has only just begun the process of transforming Betfair and it is this that will ultimately realise the best value for shareholders.
Importantly, cash flow was strong and we ended the year debt free and with 168.1m of cash.
Finally the Board and I would like to thank Betfairs employees for their hard work and commitment over the past year.
I continue to be impressed by the passion and enthusiasm within the business.
Gerald Corbett Chairman 2 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
