CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WHAT MAKES ADMIRAL DIFFERENT ALASTAIR LYONS, CBE CHAIRMAN Our Business Our Employees: we believe that if I am frequently asked what it is that makes people enjoy what they do, they do Admiral has achieved so much in its first Admiral different.
What is it that has made abetter job in 2013 Admiral was voted 20 years, here are a few highlights from itpossible for this business to grow in the 2nd Best Large Workplace in the over the years: 10years from a private company with a UKand the 2nd Best Multinational 3%share of the UK private car insurance market Workplace in the Great Place to Work and making pre-tax pro ts of 57 million in Institute awards: Admiral has been in 1993 2003 to a member of the FTSE-100, one of the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies the largest in the UK private car market, and to Work For in the UK every year the list Admiral launches in Cardiff with just with pro ts of 370 million today?
has beencompiled one brand, zero insured vehicles and Focus: Admiral has spent 20 years re ning 57 members of staff.
My answer is that there is no one thing that how best to provide the service people if you lifted it out of Admiral and put it into look for from their car insurer, and the acompetitor would immediately transform last 13 years developing Price Comparison, that companys fortunes.
Rather, there are a in particular for car insurance.
It is only set of attributes that together make Admiral with the advent of Admiral Household what it is, a combination that would be very Insurance in the last year that we hard to replicate as you would need each 2003 havededicated any material effort and every element to come together to the With a 3% share of the UK private car outside private motor insurance and right degree and in the right way.
To pick insurance market, Admiral announces price comparison out the top 10: pre-tax pro ts of 57 million.
Pricing: data analysis lies at the heart of Management: the combination of the our pricing algorithms.
With three million enormous experience and proven track customers and substantial amounts of record in this sector of our founding data our experienced pricing team is executives with the capability of those excellently placed to derive competitive of our senior managers who have advantage in the UK, and to inject that successfully developed their careers experience into our new businesses 2013 inside the business overseas as they build the scale from Admiral celebrates its 20th Our Culture: many companies which one can derive meaningful analysis anniversary with 15 brands, 3.7 million document their culture at length Claims Management: our experience, customers and 7,000 employees.
thebest way to understand Admirals culture, and focus all combine to deliver culture is to spend a day in one of our a claims result that speaks for itself with of ces to appreciate the depth of staff market-leading loss ratios, sustained engagement with a business of which reserve releases and high levels of pro t they all own a part: the vibrancy of the commission earned under our reinsurance working environment: the commitment arrangements, as well as consistent to the customer: and the engrained positive feedback from customers on For more information desire todeliver a quality output and on Admiral Groups history, visit: theclaims service they receive continuously improve that quality www.
co. uk story Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 04 x ADM ar13 front.
