02 Strategic report BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chairmans statement Despite progress onproject milestones, developments in 2013, particularly in Egypt andthe USA, reduced BGGroups growth outlook for 2014 and2015.
The Board recognisesthatthisis afrustrating setback forour shareholders.
AnDrEw GoULD ChAIrmAn BG Group finished 2013 having delivered its project milestones.
Longer-term strategy Progresswas made in Australia with the delivery of first gas onto BG Group aims to be an internationally diversified exploration CurtisIsland before year end and, in Brazil, two new floating andproduction company, with specialisations in gas and LNG.
It is productionunits came onstream.
Despite this progress, developments committed todelivering industry-leading growth and shareholder in2013, particularly in Egypt and the USA, reduced BG Groups value, safely andresponsibly.
TheBoard recognises that this isafrustrating setback for ourshareholders.
To achieve that, the Group needs to continue to do what it has alwaysdone well to create value in exploration, both in gas and The continuing deterioration in the operating and business environment oil, andinLNG.
inEgypt led the Group to issue Force Majeure notices in January 2014, andto record a non-cash, post-tax impairment of $1.3 billion that also I also recognise that shareholders expect BG Group to execute successfully reflected a reserves revision.
In the USA, the Group recorded anon-cash, itsactive portfolio management strategy.
The Group must keep its post-tax impairment of $1.1 billion as a result oflower forward US gas portfolio under constant review and pursue opportunities rigorously prices and lower production expectations based onthewell performance todivest assets for value.
of the Groups US shale assets.
In addition to the new supply from Sabine Pass in the USA, BG Group Although business performance earnings per share EPS was broadly flat ismaking progress with new LNG growth options at LakeCharles on year onyear at128.6cents, total results EPS was down 33% at 64.8 cents, theUS Gulf Coast, in Tanzania andin western Canada.
While the Group reflecting thefourth quarter impairments for Egypt and the USA.
continues to advance each of these three LNG projects, the Group maynot take them all to sanction and will not participate in all of Delivery against plan themat currentequity levels.
In their feedback to me, following our 27 January 2014 announcement, investors were clear they want to see delivery against the Groups 2014 Balance sheet and 2015 targets anddelivery of the longer-term value thathas been Net debt andgearing were broadly flat year on year at $10.6 billion articulated.
Investors wish to know whether the reward for waiting for and24.8%respectively.
BG Group expects its balance sheet to improve delivery outweighs the risk of further disappointment.
Itis clear that overthe next few yearsasits growth projects come onstream, theGroup must regaininvestor confidence.
althoughthe pace ofthis improvement will depend on prevailing oilandgas prices.
In his statement, Chris outlines his priorities for 2014 and the actions being taken to simplify the organisation and to create a culture ofclear 2014 planned capital expenditure on a cash basis is expected to be personal accountability.
Progress is being made but more work is lowerthan in 2013, with around 70% committed toAustralia and Brazil.
needed to embedcultural change across BG Group.
Total capital expenditure is expectedto fall to $8-$10 billion in 2015 and2016.
In 2014, BG Groups priority is to deliver its project milestones, which have been agreed with the Board.
These milestones include commissioning The Group therefore anticipates that it has passed its peak year for Queensland Curtis LNG QCLNG and bringing morefloating production, capitalexpenditure, and expects to be free cash flow positive in2015.
storage and offloading FPSO vessels onstream inBrazil.
TheGroup willalso improve the cost efficiency of its base assets and ofthe organisation more generally.
Free cash flow is defined in the Glossary, page 147.
Guidance is provided at the Groups ReferenceConditions as shown on page 147.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Chairmans statement 03 Full-Year DiviDenD per share 28.75 cents 2012 26.14 cents 18.02 pence 2012 16.67 pence 10% Increase in full-year dividend cents per share Dividends earnings per share Taking account of the outlook for earnings and cash flow, and the balance sheet position, the Board has recommended a final dividend total results Continuing operations of15.68cents 9.51 pence per share.
This takes the full-year dividend for2013 to 28.75 cents 18.02 pence per share, an increase of 10% onlastyear.
Further details are set out in the Financial review on 64.8 cents pages32to 37.
2012 97.0 cents The Board There were a number of changes to the Board during 2013 and I would refer youto the Corporate governance report on page 52 for further Business perFormanCe details on these.
In December, Simon Lowth was appointed as Chief Financial Officer CFO 128.6 cents and joined the Board as an Executive Director.
Simon was theCFOof AstraZeneca PLC and an executive director on its Board.
Simonbrings 2012 128.9 cents with him a combination of finance, capital allocation, value-based planning and portfolio management skillswhich will be critical as the Group executes its strategy todeliver long-term value toshareholders.
Business performance excludes discontinued operations, disposals, certain re-measurements and impairments and certain other exceptional items as exclusion of these items Conclusion provides readers with a clear and consistent presentation of BG Groups long-term strategy remains intact.
However, the Group the underlying operating performance ofBG Groups ongoing mustensure the consistent and effective delivery of its plans, year on business.
Unless otherwise stated, financial information for theGroup and its business segments presented in the year, in order that the growth potential that I continue to seeinthis Strategic Report is based on BG Groups business performance.
Total operating profit includes BGGroups share of pre-tax results from joint ventures andassociates.
See Presentation of Andrew gould non-GAAP measures, page 146.
See also Segmental analysis and results presentation, note 1, page 98, and Earnings ChAirmAn perordinary share, note 9, page 110, for a reconciliation ofthe differences between business performance and totalresults.
