6 Remuneration Report 6.1 Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce BHP Billitons Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2013.
As I reported to you in my letter last year, in 2012 we completed a comprehensive review of our senior executive remuneration structures and, after consideration of all relevant issues, concluded that our current arrangements, including the changes to the long-term incentive plan approved by shareholders in 2010, remain appropriate.
Importantly, we believe that the arrangements continue to support our focus on operational excellence, risk management and the execution of the Groups strategy.
As always, we will continue to seek further improvement opportunities.
At last years annual general meetings, we again enjoyed a strong level of support for the Remuneration Report from shareholders, with a vote in favour of 96 per cent.
In addition, our policies and approach to providing appropriate remuneration for our senior executives have been broadly endorsed during regular consultation sessions with shareholders.
In particular, our long-term incentive plan, approved in 2004, has a five-year performance period, still a longer period than most other companies.
This remains a very important feature for the Remuneration Committee and shareholders.
However, as the long-term incentive plan is approaching its 10-year anniversary, shareholder re-approval is required under UK governance guidelines.
Accordingly, shareholders will be asked to vote on the long-term incentive plan at this years annual general meetings.
The plans operation will continue to reflect the Committees unchanged commitment to the existing performance hurdle based on relative shareholder returns, with performance measured over a five-year period.
Because we are asking shareholders to re-approve the plan, we have taken the opportunity to introduce stronger malus and clawback provisions.
In our view, these provisions reflect best practice and are consistent with feedback from our shareholders.
The Committee and the Board will continue to adopt an open-door approach to eliciting shareholders views so they can be factored into the Groups future approach.
Remuneration policy in action Remuneration outcomes for FY2013 provide further tangible evidence of our policy in action.
This year, the Remuneration Committee, with the full support of the Board, exercised its discretion to vest fewer than the number of awards allocated under the 2008 long-term incentive plan for members of the Group Management Committee.
The decision was taken to reduce the number of awards by 35 per cent for all participants, even though the total shareholder return of BHP Billiton once again materially exceeded its peers over the five years of the plan.
In the absence of the Committee exercising its discretion, this performance would have supported 100 per cent vesting of the awards.
This is the first time the Committee has exercised its discretion to reduce vesting under the plan.
In doing so, it took into account a range of factors, including the negative total shareholder return over the performance period that shareholders have experienced.
It also considered the total remuneration of the executives.
While the Board and Committee believe that our executive remuneration packages have contributed to the consistent and substantial financial outperformance of the Company over many years, they also believed that some downward rebasing of the package for the incoming Chief Executive Officer CEO, Andrew Mackenzie, relative to that of the former CEO, was appropriate: a view supported by Andrew.
The package supports our evolving strategic priorities and does not compromise our need to motivate a high level of performance and ensures alignment with our shareholders expectations.
Consistent with this approach, the remuneration packages for other Group Management Committee members have also been rebased downwards.
Aligned with this, the Board decided again to freeze fees for Non-executive Directors, for the second consecutive year.
These outcomes represent an appropriate alignment of remuneration with the prevailing business environment.
When Mr Mackenzie joined BHP Billiton in 2008, he was granted one-off sign-on awards that were in recognition of equity awards foregone when he left his former employer.
The value and quantum of the sign-on awards was based on the value of awards forfeited and calculated by the Committees independent adviser.
As a result of the outperformance of BHP Billiton, all those sign-on awards would have vested this year.
However, in the circumstances, Mr Mackenzie concluded, and the Committee agreed, that the value that would have been delivered was excessive and he has voluntarily relinquished 50,000 of those awards.
Marius Kloppers will retire from the Company on 1 October 2013 when the transition to Mr Mackenzie is complete.
The terms of Mr Kloppers departure reflect the Groups remuneration policy and the rules of our incentive plans as approved by shareholders.
No additional payments are being made.
My fellow Non-executive Directors and I wish Marius the very best in the future.
In our quest to further improve the transparency of our reporting, we have included in this section information on the remuneration arrangements of Mr Mackenzie and on the retirement arrangements of Mr Kloppers.
Further details of all of the remuneration aspects described below can be found in later sections of the Remuneration Report.
CEO transition remuneration of the new CEO Andrew Mackenzie The new CEOs target remuneration for FY2014 is made up of: a base salary of US$1,700,000 an increase from Mr Mackenzies previous base salary of US$1,200,000: a decrease from the previous CEO base salary of US$2,215,200 : pension of 25 per cent of base salary a decrease from 36 per cent for Mr Mackenzie previously: a decrease from the previous CEO rate of 40 per cent : a short-term incentive target opportunity of 160 per cent of base salary, with a maximum opportunity of 240 per cent of base salary maximum reduced from 320 per cent of base salary for Mr Mackenzie and for the previous CEO : a long-term incentive award for FY2014 of 400 per cent face value of base salary subject to shareholder approval, which is a face value of US$6,800,000 US$8,392,683 in FY2013 for the prior CEO.
156 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report CEO transition remuneration of the new CEO Andrew Mackenzie continued The target remuneration that will be provided to the CEO in FY2014 is set out in the table below: These pension The long-term incentive is entirely performance based contributions and aligned to shareholder interests.
This value is based are 25% of on 400% face value of base salary together with fair value base salary.
estimates prepared by the Committees independent adviser after taking into account the 41% probability of vesting over the five-year performance period.
The actual value of this award cannot be determined until after the n Fixed remuneration end of the five-year performance period.
n At risk remuneration Short-term Long-term Total Target Pension incentive award incentive award US dollars Remuneration Base salary contributions target fair value 1 Andrew Mackenzie 7,633,000 1,700,000 425,000 2,720,000 2,788,000 The CEO will The short-term incentive is entirely performance based and earn this amount comprises 50% cash and 50% deferred equity.
Performance as base salary measures include various health, safety, environment and during FY2014.
community measures, financial, capital management and personal elements.
This target is 160% of base salary.
The maximum is 240% of base salary.
1 The target remuneration for the CEO excludes one-off benefits for his relocation from the UK to Australia in FY2013 refer section 6.4.
Mr Mackenzies actual remuneration is linked substantially to business outcomes and shareholder returns.
The at risk component of his remuneration comprising short-term incentives and long-term incentives is 72 per cent of his total target remuneration at fair value.
Fixed remuneration base salary and pension benefits comprises 28 per cent of the total.
Mr Mackenzies annual short-term incentive is at risk.
The scorecard against which his performance is ordinarily assessed is made up of a number of performance measures, including health, safety, environment and community measures, financial outcomes, capital spend and schedule and performance against personal measures.
The minimum short-term incentive is zero, as was the outcome for Mr Mackenzies predecessor in FY2012.
Mr Mackenzies long-term incentive is at risk.
BHP Billitons business is long term, and decisions are made that are likely to have an impact for many years.
It is therefore important that senior executives are rewarded over the long term for long-term performance.
BHP Billitons long-term incentive plan measures performance over five years.
CEO transition retirement of the former CEO Marius Kloppers Marius Kloppers stepped down as CEO, a member of the Group Management Committee and a Director of the Company on 10 May 2013.
He will retire from BHP Billiton on 1 October 2013.
The terms of Mr Kloppers departure reflect the Groups remuneration policy and the rules of our incentive arrangements as approved by shareholders.
Mr Kloppers will work through the applicable notice period, receive his base salary and pension entitlements at current rates to the date of his retirement: namely, 1 October 2013, be entitled to the value of the pension and superannuation plans that he has accumulated over his 20 years with the Company, together with the value of any accrued leave to 1 October 2013, and retain on a pro-rata basis awards granted in previous years under the long-term incentive plan.
They will vest only if the performance hurdle is met at the end of each five-year performance period refer further below.
Mr Kloppers has been considered for a short-term incentive payment under the group incentive scheme for the year ended 30 June 2013, assessed by the Remuneration Committee after year-end.
That payment was pro-rated to reflect his period of service as CEO during the year ended 30 June 2013 namely, 1 July 2012 to 10 May 2013.
He also participated as usual in the normal vesting of share awards in August 2013.
Mr Kloppers will not receive any financial benefit over and above those provided for within his existing contractual entitlements.
Awards granted in prior years under the long-term incentive plan that may vest in the four years after Mr Kloppers departure are retained on a pro-rata basis.
Under the terms of the shareholder approved plan, employees who retire are entitled to hold awards granted in prior years.
However, the number of awards is reduced to reflect the period of service in relation to each grant.
Under the pro-rating rule, Mr Kloppers will retain 504,675 awards, and 412,649 awards will lapse.
Whether the 504,675 retained awards vest will depend on BHP Billitons relative total shareholder return performance over the five-year periods to 30 June 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
In addition, even if the performance hurdle is met, the Committee has an overriding discretion under the plan rules to reduce the amount of awards that vest.
Accordingly, the vesting outcome and the number of long-term incentive awards that will ultimately vest are unknown at this time.
The number of long-term incentive plan awards that vest cannot exceed the 504,675 awards retained.
In this years Remuneration Report, we have continued to improve the clarity of the explanation of the remuneration arrangements for our CEO and his executive team, including the early adoption of certain new UK requirements which will formally apply for the first time to next years Remuneration Report.
This reinforces the importance we see in seeking to explain clearly how BHP Billitons remuneration policies support long-term, sustainable value creation.
John Buchanan Chairman, Remuneration Committee 12 September 2013 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 157 6 Remuneration Report continued Contents of the Remuneration Report The following guide is intended to help the reader use this Remuneration Report.
It explains the linkages between BHP Billitons remuneration policy and the remuneration outcomes for members of the Group Management Committee GMC and Non-executive Directors as shown in section 6.2.
All acronyms used are defined in the Remuneration Report or in section 10.
Section What it covers 6.1 Annual statement by the Message from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in regard to significant decisions and Remuneration Committee Chairman changes throughout the year and key points to note in this Remuneration Report.
6.2 Remuneration policy report Explains how the Board and the Committee make remuneration decisions, including how they use external remuneration consultants.
Details the Key Management Personnel KMP for FY2013, being Remuneration governance the members of the GMC and the Non-executive Directors who served during the year.
Remuneration policy for GMC members Outlines the overarching remuneration policy and framework that guides decisions on remuneration Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors design and outcomes for the GMC members and the Non-executive Directors.
Describes the components of remuneration and potential remuneration outcomes for the CEO as a result of the policy.
6.3 Remuneration implementation report Shows the impact of the remuneration policy in FY2013 and how actual performance outcomes link to remuneration outcomes through short-term incentive STI and long-term incentive LTI arrangements.
Remuneration outcomes for GMC members Remuneration outcomes for Non-executive Directors 6.4 Statutory disclosures Presents additional disclosures required under Australian and UK reporting requirements, including total remuneration for the GMC calculated pursuant to legislative and accounting requirements.
Statutory remuneration disclosures for GMC members Provides details of interests in equity awards resulting from BHP Billitons remuneration programs.
Equity awards Other statutory disclosures for Directors 6.2 Remuneration policy report Remuneration governance 6.2.
1 Board oversight The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Groups remuneration arrangements are equitable and aligned with the long-term interests of BHP Billiton and its shareholders.
In performing this function, it is critical that the Board is independent of management when making decisions affecting remuneration of the CEO, the other members of the GMC and the Groups employees.
Accordingly, the Board has established a Remuneration Committee to assist it in making decisions affecting employee remuneration.
The Committee is comprised solely of Non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
In order to ensure that it is fully informed when making remuneration decisions, the Committee receives regular reports and updates from members of management who the Committee invites to attend meetings as and when appropriate and can draw on services from a range of external sources, including remuneration consultants.
2 Remuneration Committee Remuneration John Buchanan Chairman The activities of the Remuneration Committee are governed Committee members Carlos Cordeiro by Terms of Reference most recently approved by the Board Pat Davies in June 2013, which are available on our website.
The purpose John Schubert of the Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight of: Number of meetings in FY2013 Nine the remuneration policy and its specific application to the CEO, the other members of the GMC and its general application Other individuals who Jac Nasser Chairman 1 regularly attended meetings to all Group employees: Marius Kloppers CEO to 10 May 2013 Andrew Mackenzie CEO from 10 May 2013 the determination of levels of reward for the CEO and approval of reward to the other members of the GMC: Karen Wood President, People and Public Affairs in FY2013 the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, by providing Gary Brown Head of Group Human Resources guidance to the Group Chairman: Andrew Fitzgerald Vice President, Group Reward communication with shareholders on the Groups remuneration Jane McAloon President, Governance policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board: and Group Company Secretary the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory Geof Stapledon Vice President, Governance requirements associated with remuneration matters: 1 These individuals were not present when matters associated with their own the preparation of the Remuneration Report to be included remuneration were considered.
in the Groups Annual Report: the review, at least annually, of remuneration by gender.
Further information regarding the Committee can be found in section 5.13.2.
158 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.2.
3 Use of remuneration consultants The Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from independent remuneration advisers where appropriate.
Remuneration consultants are engaged by, and report directly to, the Committee.
Potential conflicts of interest are taken into account when remuneration consultants are selected and their terms of engagement regulate their level of access to, and require their independence from, BHP Billitons management.
The advice and recommendations of external advisers are used as a guide, but do not serve as a substitute for thorough consideration of the issues by each Director.
Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee to act as an independent remuneration adviser to provide specialist remuneration advice and does not provide other services to the Group.
Kepler Associates is a member of the UK Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code of Conduct.
During the year, Kepler Associates provided advice and assistance to the Committee on a wide range of matters, including: advice in regard to remuneration arrangements for the new CEO and other members of the GMC: benchmarking of pay of senior executives against comparable roles at a range of relevant comparator groups, including sector and size peers: provision of information and commentary on global trends in executive remuneration: calculation of accounting fair values of equity awards and performance analysis for LTI awards: review of, and commentary on, management proposals: other ad-hoc support and advice as requested by the Committee.
As part of its role, Kepler Associates provided remuneration recommendations as defined in the Australian Corporations Act 2001 to the Committee during the year.
Each time Kepler Associates provides a remuneration recommendation, Kepler Associates provides a declaration that the remuneration recommendation was made free from undue influence by the member of KMP to whom the recommendation relates.
The Board considered the processes outlined above, the constraints incorporated into Kepler Associates terms of engagement, the implementation of a comprehensive protocol for the engagement of remuneration advisers and the receipt of the declaration of no undue influence.
It is satisfied that the remuneration recommendations received from Kepler Associates were made free from undue influence by any of the members of KMP to whom the recommendations related.
Total fees paid to Kepler Associates for the above services for the period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013 were 159,000, of which 57,000 was for attendance at Committee meetings and commentary on management proposals, and a total of 81,000 for the provision of remuneration recommendations and technical advice on executive remuneration.
The remainder is mainly a non-recurring item relating to advice on arrangements for the new CEO and other new GMC members.
Management also appoints external firms from time to time to assist with remuneration benchmarking, data provision and the like: however, Kepler Associates is the only remuneration consultant appointed by the Committee.
While other external firms did provide certain information to management to assist them in deliberations, no remuneration adviser other than Kepler Associates provided remuneration recommendations during the year in relation to KMP.
4 Prohibition on hedging of BHP Billiton shares and equity instruments GMC members are not allowed to protect the value of any unvested BHP Billiton securities allocated to them under employee programs or the value of shares and securities held as part of meeting BHP Billitons Minimum Shareholding Requirements MSR as described below.
The policy also prohibits GMC members from using unvested BHP Billiton securities as collateral in any financial transaction, including hedging and margin loan arrangements.
Any securities that have vested and are no longer subject to restrictions or performance conditions may be subject to hedging arrangements or used as collateral, provided that consent is obtained from BHP Billiton in advance of the employee entering into the arrangement.
BHP Billiton treats compliance with this policy as a serious issue, and takes appropriate measures to ensure that the policy is adhered to.
5 Share ownership guidelines and the minimum shareholding requirements The MSR helps to ensure that executives and shareholders interests remain aligned.
In FY2013 and prior, the MSR was 300 per cent of annual gross pre-tax base salary for the CEO and 200 per cent for other GMC members.
From FY2014, the MSR will increase to 500 per cent of annual gross pre-tax base salary for the CEO and 300 per cent for other GMC members.
The value of the securities for the purposes of the policy is the market value of the underlying shares.
Unvested securities do not qualify, and neither do options with a market-based exercise price.
Members of the GMC are expected to grow their holdings to the required level from the scheduled vesting of employee awards over time.
Under the policy, employees are not required to meet the holding requirement before awards are allocated to them, but if they are not holding the required number of shares, then they will be prohibited from selling all of the underlying shares arising from their awards.
Employees are entitled to sell sufficient shares to satisfy tax obligations arising from the granting, holding, vesting, exercise or sale of employee awards or the underlying shares.
Detailed share ownership information of the CEO and other members of the GMC can be found in sections 7.19 and 7.20.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 159 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.2.
6 Key Management Personnel The Australian Corporations Act 2001, Australian Accounting Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards require BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures for KMP, defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
For the purposes of this Remuneration Report, it has been determined that the KMP are the members of the GMC and the Non-executive Directors who served during FY2013.
Members of the GMC Following the announcement of Andrew Mackenzie as CEO in February 2013, BHP Billiton announced a new GMC, which took effect from 10 May 2013.
The composition and structure of the GMC reflects a commitment to a relentless focus on the safe execution of the Groups strategy, and provides the Company with the right balance of skills and experience to lead the Group.
While the new GMC is larger in number than its predecessor, with 12 members for FY2014 eight previously, it reflects a balance of operational and functional roles, and a more streamlined organisation, with the removal of a layer of management below the GMC to create a direct line of communication between the centre and operations and to ensure alignment between strategic and operational leadership.
FY2013 remuneration reported in this report is for the period that the individual served in the relevant capacity during the year: Andrew Mackenzie, Mike Henry, Graham Kerr and Karen Wood were members of the GMC for the whole of FY2013.
Peter Beaven, Dean Dalla Valle, Jane McAloon, Daniel Malchuk and Jimmy Wilson were appointed to the GMC effective from 10 May 2013.
Geoff Healy was appointed to the GMC upon his commencement with BHP Billiton on 3 June 2013.
Marius Kloppers, Alberto Calderon and Marcus Randolph retired from the GMC effective from 10 May 2013 and will leave or have left BHP Billiton during FY2014.
J Michael Yeager retired from the GMC effective from 1 July 2013 and from BHP Billiton effective 8 July 2013, and is therefore included as KMP for the whole of FY2013.
Tim Cutt was appointed to the GMC effective from 2 July 2013 as President, Petroleum and Potash.
Mike Fraser was appointed to the GMC effective from 27 August 2013 as President, Human Resources.
Mr Cutt and Mr Fraser are therefore not included in this report as KMP, but will be included in FY2014.
Also effective 27 August 2013, Karen Wood assumed the role of President, Public Affairs and remains on the GMC.
Dates of appointment of all current GMC members appear in section 4.2 and the dates of their current service contracts appear in the table below.
The service contracts for all members of the GMC have no fixed term.
They typically outline the components of remuneration paid to the individual, but do not prescribe how remuneration levels are to be modified from year-to-year.
The contracts are all capable of termination by BHP Billiton on 12 months notice.
The Group retains the right to terminate a contract immediately by making a payment equal to 12 months base salary plus retirement benefits for that period.
The GMC member must give six months notice.
Name Title Date of contract 1 KMP Andrew Mackenzie Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director from 10 May 2013 3 May 2013 Group Executive and Chief Executive, Non-Ferrous to 9 May 2013 Peter Beaven President, Copper from 10 May 2013 3 May 2013 Dean Dalla Valle President, Coal from 10 May 2013 3 May 2013 Geoff Healy Chief Legal Counsel from 3 June 2013 12 April 2013 Mike Henry President, HSEC, Marketing and Technology from 10 May 2013 3 May 2013 Group Executive and Chief Marketing Officer to 9 May 2013 Graham Kerr Chief Financial Officer from 10 May 2013 3 May 2013 Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer to 9 May 2013 Jane McAloon President, Governance and Group Company Secretary from 10 May 2013 3 May 2013 Daniel Malchuk President, Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel from 10 May 2013 3 May 2013 Jimmy Wilson President, Iron Ore from 10 May 2013 3 May 2013 Karen Wood President, People and Public Affairs from 10 May 2013 3 May 2013 Group Executive and Chief People & Public Affairs Officer to 9 May 2013 1 In addition to the KMP listed above, Marius Kloppers Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director, with a date of contract of 12 February 2008, Alberto Calderon Group Executive and Chief Executive, Aluminium, Nickel & Corporate Development, with a date of contract of 16 January 2008, Marcus Randolph Group Executive and Chief Executive Ferrous & Coal, with a date of contract of 13 December 2005 and J Michael Yeager Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum, with a date of contract of 21 March 2006 served as KMP during FY2013.
As a consequence of the announcement of a new GMC, the tables that follow in this Remuneration Report list, firstly, the members of the new GMC who were KMP for all or part of FY2013 and continue as KMP into FY2014 and then, secondly, the members of the prior GMC who no longer serve in that capacity who were KMP for all or part of FY2013, but who will not be KMP for any part of FY2014.
Non-executive Directors Details of the Non-executive Directors who held office during FY2013 are set out below.
Each of the Non-executive Directors held office for the whole of FY2013.
Dates of appointment of all Directors appear in section 4.1.
Name Title Name Title Malcolm Broomhead Non-executive Director Lindsay Maxsted Non-executive Director John Buchanan Senior Independent Director Wayne Murdy Non-executive Director Carlos Cordeiro Non-executive Director Jac Nasser Chairman David Crawford Non-executive Director Keith Rumble Non-executive Director Pat Davies Non-executive Director John Schubert Non-executive Director Carolyn Hewson Non-executive Director Shriti Vadera Non-executive Director 160 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Remuneration policy for GMC members This section outlines the overarching remuneration policy and framework that guided decisions on remuneration design and outcomes for the GMC members in FY2013 and will guide decisions in FY2014.
7 The overarching principles of our remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee recognises that remuneration has an important role to play in supporting the implementation and achievement of the Groups strategy and our ongoing performance, aligning the activities of management to the interests of shareholders, and in supporting Our Charter.
The remuneration policy is reviewed annually and, where appropriate, fine-tuned to ensure that it continues to be effective in achieving these goals.
The key principles of our remuneration policy, which remain unchanged, are to: support the execution of the Groups business strategy in accordance with a risk framework that is appropriate for the organisation: provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled executives willing to work around the world: apply demanding performance measures, including key financial and non-financial measures of performance: link a large component of pay to our performance and the creation of value for our shareholders from relative performance: ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate the deployment of people around the Group: limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements which do not commit us to making any unjustified payments.
8 Our remuneration policy and arrangements support Our Charter and are focused on the long term Our Charter sets out our purpose, strategy, values and how we judge our success.
Our Charter is shown on the inside front cover of this Annual Report.
BHP Billitons remuneration arrangements reinforce the achievement of our success, as set out in Our Charter, and are designed to ensure that executives take a long-term approach to decision-making and minimise activities that focus only on short-term results at the expense of longer-term business growth and success.
The Remuneration Committee has considered the ways in which risk management and the long-term horizon are reflected throughout BHP Billitons remuneration arrangements for all executives, and is satisfied that the approach reinforces the desired behaviours.
This is largely achieved through the Groups approach to STI and LTI awards, which comprise a significant portion of total remuneration for the members of the GMC.
The equity component of the STI award is deferred for a two-year period, and performance under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is measured over a five-year period.
The actual rewards received by members of the GMC therefore reflect the Groups performance and share price over an extended period.
It is the Committees view that this provides an appropriate focus on BHP Billitons sustained performance beyond the end of the initial measurement period.
This approach also provides a transparent mechanism for clawback or adjustment in the event of a restatement of Group results, through changes to the vesting or non-vesting of deferred equity.
In addition, STI and LTI outcomes are not driven by a purely formulaic approach.
The Committee holds discretion to determine that awards are not to be provided or vested in circumstances where it would be inappropriate or would provide unintended outcomes.
The Committee has no discretion to allow vesting when performance conditions have not been satisfied other than in the event of death, serious injury, disability, illness that prohibits continued employment, or total and permanent disablement.
9 How total remuneration is determined The Remuneration Committee considers the appropriate total remuneration for each member of the GMC by examining the remuneration provided to comparable roles in organisations of similar global complexity, size, reach and industry.
Each year, the Committees independent adviser, Kepler Associates, sources and consolidates relevant remuneration data for appropriate roles, based on their analysis of relevant organisations and markets.
The adviser prepares a comparison to current GMC remuneration, but does not make specific recommendations regarding the level of individual executives remuneration.
For more information on the services provided to the Committee by Kepler Associates refer to section 6.2.
From this market comparison, the Committee determines the appropriate remuneration for each individual, taking into account their responsibilities, location, skills, experience and performance within the Group.
In doing so, the Committee recognises that levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled executives, but also that the Group should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
Total remuneration comprises different elements of remuneration to reflect a balance between fixed and at-risk remuneration and between shortand long-term incentives.
The mix of remuneration elements and how the remuneration outcomes from each element are impacted by performance are described in detail in the following section.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 161 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.2.
10 Components of remuneration The following table shows the building blocks of total remuneration, how performance is assessed and will impact remuneration and how the resulting remuneration outcomes are delivered.
Component Description Base salary Base salary is broadly aligned with salaries for comparable roles in global companies of similar global complexity, size, reach and industry, and reflects an individuals responsibilities, location, performance, qualifications and experience within the Group, in order to attract and retain executives in pursuit of the Companys purpose.
Base salary is reviewed annually and any changes are effective from 1 September each year.
Reviews consider general economic conditions and salary reviews across the rest of the Group.
Base salary is denominated in US dollars for all GMC members.
Pension contributions Pension contributions are similarly benchmarked to comparable roles in global companies.
All current GMC members are entitled to pension contributions under defined contribution pension plans.
They are given a choice of funding vehicles: a Defined Contribution Plan, an unfunded Retirement Savings Plan, an International Retirement Plan or a cash payment in lieu.
For FY2014, pension contributions for all GMC members will be 25% of base salary.
Other benefits GMC members are reimbursed for costs such as health and other insurances, the costs of tax return preparation in multiple jurisdictions to a capped amount, and are provided with cash payments in lieu of untaken annual leave as required in the US.
Relocation allowances and assistance are provided under the Companys global mobility policy and are one-off payments with no trailing entitlements.
Short-term incentive The Remuneration Committee has approved a new Short Term Incentive Plan STIP for application to the CEO and other GMC members for FY2014 and subsequent years.
The new STIP replaces the prior Group Incentive Scheme GIS, which has applied to the CEO and other GMC members for FY2013 and prior years.
The features of the new STIP are set out below.
Where the terms of the GIS which covers FY2013 and prior awards are different to those of the STIP, such differences have been noted below.
The purpose of the STIP and the prior GIS is to focus managements efforts on those performance measures and outcomes that have been determined to be priorities for the relevant financial year.
Measuring performance An individual scorecard of measures is set for each executive at the commencement of each financial year.
These measures and their relative weightings are chosen by the Committee in order to appropriately drive overall performance in the current year, including achievement of financial outcomes and delivery against measures that impact the long-term sustainability of the Group.
The Sustainability Committee assists the Remuneration Committee in determining appropriate health, safety, environment and community HSEC metrics to be included in GMC scorecards.
At the conclusion of the financial year, each executives achievement against their measures is assessed by the Committee and the Board, and their STI award determined.
The Remuneration Committee is assisted by the Sustainability Committee and by the Risk and Audit Committee in relation to assessment of performance against HSEC and financial measures, respectively.
The Board believes this method of assessment is transparent, rigorous and balanced, and provides an appropriate, objective and comprehensive assessment of performance.
Half 50% is delivered in cash and half 50% in deferred equity The value of any STI award is provided half in cash and half in an award of the equivalent face value of BHP Billiton equity, which is deferred for two years.
The Committee intends this to provide an appropriate focus on the longer-term time frame, even in regard to annual STI rewards.
On-target performance against the scorecard measures delivers an STI award of 160% of base salary being a cash STI award of 80% of base salary and the equivalent value in deferred equity.
The maximum STI award payable under the plan is rarely awarded and is only available where all non-financial and financial targets are significantly exceeded.
For FY2013, the maximum STI award that could have been earned under the GIS was 320% of base salary 160% of base salary in cash and an equivalent value in deferred equity.
The minimum potential STI award was zero.
In FY2014, the maximum STI award that can be earned under the new STIP will be 240% of base salary 120% of base salary in cash and an equivalent value in deferred equity.
The minimum potential STI award will be zero.
The equity is provided as Deferred Shares.
Deferred Shares are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights.
Each Deferred Share is a conditional right to receive one ordinary BHP Billiton share in the future if the service conditions are met.
When the two-year vesting period is over, the Deferred Shares will vest if the holder is still employed by the Company or has left in certain circumstances as described below this table.
Dividends on deferred equity Dividends are not received by the executives during the vesting period.
A Dividend Equivalent Payment DEP is provided when the vesting period is over and the holder receives ordinary BHP Billiton shares in respect of the award.
The value of the DEP is based on the dividends that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares over the period from the allocation date to the time that the DEP is paid.
Under the STIP, the Committee intends that DEP will be provided in the form of shares although the plan accommodates a cash equivalent in appropriate circumstances.
DEP provided under the GIS is paid in cash.
A DEP is not provided in relation to any securities that are forfeited during the vesting period.
Long-term incentive A new LTIP is being proposed to shareholders for approval at the 2013 Annual General Meetings AGMs for grants proposed to be made to the CEO and other GMC members in FY2014 and subsequent years.
The new LTIP replaces the prior LTIP, which has applied to the CEO and other GMC members for grants made in FY2013 and prior years.
Were the new LTIP not to be approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs, the grants proposed to be made in December 2013 would be made under the prior LTIP.
The features of the new LTIP, which are not materially different from the prior LTIP, are set out below.
Where the features differ from the prior LTIP, such differences have been noted below.
The purpose of the LTIP is to focus managements efforts on the achievement of sustainable long-term value creation and success of the Group including appropriate management of business risks and to align senior executive rewards with sustained shareholder wealth creation through the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance condition described below.
Value of awards The value of any LTI award is provided as Performance Shares.
Performance Shares are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights.
Each Performance Share is a conditional right to receive one ordinary BHP Billiton share in the future if the performance and service conditions are met.
When the Committee is determining the number of LTI awards to be allocated to GMC members, it uses the face value of the underlying Company shares to determine the value of awards.
The Committee also considers the fair value as below of LTI awards in its determinations.
In FY2013 and prior years, the Committee placed more emphasis on the fair value of an LTIP award to determine its size.
162 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.2.
10 Components of remuneration continued Component Description Long-term incentive Value of awards continued continued The fair value is calculated by Kepler Associates.
It reflects outcomes weighted by probability, taking into account the difficulty of achieving the performance conditions and the correlation between these and share price appreciation, together with other factors, including volatility and forfeiture risks.
This fair value is not the same as the IFRS fair value used in section 6.4.
1, which is determined in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 2 AASB 2 Share-based Payments accounting standards.
The fair value for the current plan design is 41% of the face value of an award.
Under both the prior LTIP and the new LTIP rules, the maximum award size is an award with a fair value equal to 200% of base salary, which is equivalent to a face value of 488% of base salary.
The FY2014 award proposed to be made to the CEO in December 2013 has a face value of 400% of base salary.
For the purposes of benchmarking and derivation of total target remuneration, the Committee uses the fair value of 164% of base salary based on the fair value factor of 41%.
Dividends on LTI awards Dividends are not received by the holder during the vesting period.
A DEP as described above in the STI section of this table will be provided after the vesting of the award has been determined and the holder receives ordinary BHP Billiton shares in respect of the award.
Under the new LTIP, the Committee intends that DEP will be provided in the form of shares although the plan accommodates a cash equivalent in appropriate circumstances.
DEP under the prior LTIP was paid in cash.
Total Shareholder Return TSR performance condition The relative TSR performance condition must be achieved over a five-year period.
Full vesting under the LTIP only occurs where BHP Billitons TSR significantly outperforms the TSR of the comparator companies.
TSR measures the return in US$ delivered to shareholders over a defined period through the change in share price and any dividends paid which are notionally reinvested for the purposes of the calculation.
TSR has been chosen as the most appropriate measure as it allows for an objective external assessment over a sustained period on a basis that is familiar to shareholders.
As BHP Billitons TSR performance relative to its peers tends to be counter-cyclical, the hurdle used since December 2010 includes both a sector-based comparison 67% and a comparison to a broad stock market index the MSCI World 33% for assessing the Groups TSR performance, in order to provide a fairer and more balanced measure of performance.
This weighting ensures a majority of the outcome is driven by our performance against that of resource industry peers.
More detail on the comparator groups is shown in the final section of this table.
The lists of peer companies for FY2013 and for FY2014 are shown in section 6.3.
Level of performance required for vesting For all Performance Shares to vest, BHP Billitons TSR must exceed the Index TSR by an average of 5.5% per annum, which equates to exceeding the average TSR over the five-year performance period by 30.7%.
25% of Performance Shares vest if BHP Billitons TSR is equal to the Index TSR zero for awards granted prior to December 2010 and vesting occurs on a sliding scale between the Index TSR and the point of full vesting.
BHP Billitons TSR is a weighted average of the TSRs of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
There is no retesting if the performance hurdle is not met.
In the event that the Committee does not consider the level of vesting that would otherwise apply based on the Groups achievement of the TSR hurdle to be a true reflection of the performance of the Group or should it consider that individual performance or other circumstances makes this an inappropriate outcome, it retains the discretion to lapse any or all Performance Shares held by one or more participants.
This is an important mitigator against the risk of unintended vesting outcomes.
Vested Performance Shares are able to be exercised for up to five years following the date that vesting is determined, with an expiry date prior to the fifth anniversary of vesting.
Awards in respect of years up to and including FY2010 granted Awards made since FY2011 granted or to be granted since up to December 2009 December 2010 The comparators are sector peer companies.
TSR performance relative to sector peer companies determines the vesting of 67% of the securities.
Opening and closing share prices for BHP Billiton and for each of the peer companies are averaged over a three-month period TSR performance against a broad market index MSCI World to help ensure that short-term fluctuations in the market determines the vesting of the remaining awards.
do not affect the vesting results.
The share price averaging period has been doubled to six months No Performance Shares vest if BHP Billitons TSR is at or below as added security against short-term price fluctuations.
No Performance Shares vest if BHP Billitons TSR is below the Index TSR.
25% of the Performance Shares vest if BHP Billitons TSR is at the Index TSR.
Treatment of STI and LTI on departure This section describes the treatment of awards under the new STIP and LTIP on cessation of employment.
Where the treatment of awards is different under the prior GIS, this is described in sections 6.4.
Treatment of STI where a member of the GMC leaves during the financial year If a participant leaves BHP Billiton during a performance year due to death, serious injury, disability or illness that prohibits continued employment, forced early retirement, retrenchment or redundancy, termination by mutual agreement or retirement with the agreement of the Company, or such other circumstances that the Remuneration Committee determines are of a similar nature other than those set out below, the Committee may determine in its absolute discretion to pay a pro-rata portion of cash STI based on the length of employment and performance of the participant up to that date.
Where a participant leaves BHP Billiton due to resignation or dismissal, then no cash amount will be paid in respect of the current performance year.
If a participant leaves BHP Billiton during a performance year for any reason, no deferred equity awards will be granted in respect of that performance year.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 163 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.2.
10 Components of remuneration continued Treatment of STI where a member of the GMC leaves after the end of a financial year, but before awards are provided Where a participant leaves BHP Billiton for any reason after the end of a performance year, but before the date of payment of any cash amount, no cash amount will be paid under the STIP in respect of that performance year, but the Committee may determine in its discretion to pay a separate amount in respect of the participants performance for that year.
Where a participant ceases employment for any reason after the end of a performance year, but before the date of grant of any deferred equity, no deferred equity will be granted in respect of that performance year, but the Committee may determine in its discretion to pay a separate cash amount in respect of the participants performance for that year.
Treatment of deferred STI and LTI equity holdings on departure Where a participant leaves BHP Billiton due to forced early retirement, retrenchment or redundancy, termination by mutual agreement or retirement with the agreement of the Company, or such other circumstances that the Committee determines are of a similar nature other than those set out below, then: unvested STI equity awards to be granted under the new STIP will be retained by the participant, but will not vest and become exercisable until the scheduled vesting date.
The Committee believes that this is important to assist the Company in applying the malus and clawback provisions, where it is considered appropriate as described in the following section.
This is a significant change from the terms of the GIS applicable for prior awards and those for FY2013, under which awards vest in full on cessation of employment in such circumstances.
the participant may retain entitlements to a portion of unvested LTI awards, pro-rated to reflect the period of service from the start of the relevant performance period to the date of departure.
After the employees departure, the LTI awards would only vest and become exercisable to the extent that the performance hurdles are met, and remain subject to available discretions.
This ensures that any benefit received by the individual remains linked to their contribution to ongoing Group performance.
If a participants employment ends due to death, serious injury, disability or illness that prohibits continued employment or total and permanent disablement, immediate vesting of all of the participants STI and LTI awards occurs.
Where a participant leaves BHP Billiton due to resignation or dismissal, then all unvested STI and LTI awards will lapse.
If a participant ceases employment for any other reason, including where the business or company for which the participant works is sold outside the Group, the Committee in its discretion will determine the rights of a participant to the exercise or award or lapse of deferred equity awards.
Malus and clawback The new STIP and LTIP include malus and clawback provisions to allow the Remuneration Committee to reduce or clawback awards in certain circumstances, including: for any misconduct or fraud by a participant: where BHP Billiton becomes aware of a material misstatement or omission in the financial statements of a Group company or the Group: or any circumstances occur that the Committee determines in good faith to have resulted in an inappropriate benefit to the participant.
In addition, the Committee will have the ability to clawback all or some of the shares allocated to a participant or cash received by a participant in connection with the new STIP or LTIP in order to ensure that no inappropriate benefit is obtained by the participant.
11 When the components of remuneration are provided The following graph illustrates the usual time frame for delivery of the components of remuneration.
Cash STI awards are paid in September following the release of the Groups annual results.
The remainder of the STI awards and those under the LTI are delivered after the AGMs and are usually allocated in December.
Allocations to the CEO are subject to shareholder approval.
Employees will generally not have access to the value of these equity awards for approximately two years in the case of STI awards, and five years in the case of LTI awards, depending on the level of vesting under the LTIP performance hurdle, including the exercise of the Remuneration Committees discretion to reduce vesting.
Timeline for allocation of remuneration components LTI Performance measured 5 yrs STI Performance measured Deferred Shares 2 yrs Base salary and pension benefits July Sep Dec Jun Aug Sep Dec STI and LTI New base LTI Performance STI award STI cash STI Deferred 1 performance salary effective Shares allocated determined paid Shares allocated measurement starts 1 There were no increases to base salary for any members of the GMC in September 2012.
Changes in base salary for GMC members during FY2013 were effective at various times related to the changes in the GMC structure during the year refer to section 6.3.
12 Potential remuneration outcomes While the Board recognises that market forces necessarily influence remuneration practices, it strongly believes that the fundamental driver of our remuneration arrangements should be business performance.
Accordingly, while target total remuneration is structured to attract and retain executives, the amount of remuneration actually received is dependent on the achievement of superior business and individual performance and on generating sustained shareholder value from relative performance.
At risk components of remuneration therefore represent a significant portion of total remuneration, are subject to performance conditions and to ongoing service, and are designed to deliver appropriate pay over various time horizons.
164 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.2.
12 Potential remuneration outcomes continued The diagrams below illustrate the relative proportion of each remuneration component for the CEO if the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance were achieved.
These diagrams have been developed with reference to new UK reporting requirements, and in line with UK guidance: the figure for other benefits is based on FY2013 actual figures for current GMC members, excluding non-recurring items: and the impact of potential future share price movements up and down on the value of deferred STI and LTI awards have been ignored.
Remuneration mix for the CEO The LTI amount target and maximum is based on the new CEOs normal award size of 400 per cent of base salary, at face value, which is lower than the maximum permissible award size under the plan rules an amount equivalent to 488 per cent of base salary face value.
The target value for the LTI award is based on the fair value of the award, which is 41 per cent of the face value as this is the expected outcome on the balance of probabilities.
Remuneration mix for the CEO US$000 Minimum 1,700 425 4 Target 1,700 425 4 1,360 1,360 2,788 Maximum 1,700 425 4 2,040 2,040 6,800 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 11,000 12,000 13,000 14,000 Total remuneration US$000 Base salary Other benefits Deferred STI Retirement benefits Cash STI LTI Remuneration mix for the CEO The percentage numbers in the bars represent the percentage of base salary Minimum Base salary 25% 0.2% Target Base salary 25% 0.2% 80% 80% 164% Maximum Base salary 25% 0.2% 120% 120% 400% 0 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% % share of total remuneration Base salary Other benefits Deferred STI Retirement benefits Cash STI LTI Remuneration mix for other GMC members The diagram below illustrates the relative proportion of each remuneration component for the other GMC members if the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance-based remuneration were to be provided.
Remuneration mix for other GMC members The percentage numbers in the bars represent the percentage of base salary Minimum Base salary 25% 0.7% 1 Target Base salary 25% 0.7% 80% 80% 143% 1 Maximum Base salary 25% 0.7% 120% 120% 350% 0 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% % share of total remuneration Base salary Other benefits Deferred STI Retirement benefits Cash STI LTI 1 GMC members other than the CEO have a maximum LTI award of 350 per cent of base salary at face value or 143 per cent of base salary at fair value, with the exception of Jane McAloon, who has a maximum LTI award of 300 per cent of base salary at face value or 123 per cent of base salary at fair value.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 165 6 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors 6.2.
13 Remuneration policy Our Non-executive Directors are paid in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 and the ASX Corporate Governance Councils Principles and Recommendations 2nd Edition.
Remuneration rates for Non-executive Directors are set at a competitive level, with advice on benchmark fees in equivalent sized companies provided by external advisers.
The remuneration levels reflect the size and complexity of the Group, the multi-jurisdictional environment arising from the Dual Listed Company structure, the multiple stock exchange listings, the extent of the geographic regions in which the Group operates and the enhanced responsibilities associated with membership of Board Committees.
They also reflect the considerable travel burden imposed on members of the Board.
In setting the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors, the economic environment and the financial performance of the Group is taken into account, along with pay and employment conditions of employees elsewhere in the Group.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any incentive arrangements.
A standard letter of appointment has been developed for Non-executive Directors and is available on our website.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed subject to periodic re-election by shareholders see section 5.12 for an explanation of the process.
There are no provisions in any of the Non-executive Directors appointment arrangements for compensation payable on early termination of their directorship.
14 Non-executive Director fees Fees for the Non-executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and the CEO.
The Non-executive Directors do not take part in these discussions.
Fees for the Chairman are determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
Fees for the Non-executive Directors and Chairman were reviewed in June 2013 and benchmarked against peer companies, with the assistance of externally provided benchmark data.
As a result of the review, a decision was taken to make no change to the fee levels of the Non-executive Directors or the Chairman for FY2014.
The table below sets out the fees, and the changes in fee levels, since 1 July 2009.
The aggregate sum available to remunerate Non-executive Directors was approved by shareholders at the 2008 AGMs at US$3.8 million.
Levels of fees and travel allowances for Non-executive Directors in US dollars From 1 July 2009 From 1 July 2010 From 1 July 2011 From 1 July 2012 From 1 July 2013 Base annual fee 140,000 154,000 170,000 170,000 170,000 Plus additional fees for: Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc 30,000 35,000 48,000 48,000 48,000 Committee Chair: Risk and Audit 50,000 55,000 60,000 60,000 60,000 1 Finance 60,000 60,000 Remuneration 35,000 40,000 45,000 45,000 45,000 Sustainability 35,000 40,000 45,000 45,000 45,000 Nomination No additional fees No additional fees No additional fees No additional fees No additional fees Committee membership: Risk and Audit 25,000 30,000 32,500 32,500 32,500 1 Finance 32,500 32,500 Remuneration 20,000 25,000 27,500 27,500 27,500 Sustainability 20,000 25,000 27,500 27,500 27,500 Nomination No additional fees No additional fees No additional fees No additional fees No additional fees 2 Travel allowance: Greater than 3 but less than 10 hours 7,000 7,000 7,000 7,000 7,000 10 hours or more 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 Chairmans remuneration 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1 The Finance Committee was created on 23 April 2012, and the fees shown are annualised and commenced from that date.
2 In relation to travel for Board business, the time thresholds relate to the flight time to travel to the meeting location i. e. one way flight time.
Until 30 June 2011, the time frames were Greater than 3 but less than 12 hours and 12 hours or more.
166 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.3 Remuneration implementation report This section of the report shows the impact of the remuneration policy in FY2013 and how actual performance outcomes link to remuneration outcomes.
Remuneration outcomes for GMC members 6.3.
1 Total actual remuneration of the CEO This section shows a single figure of actual remuneration as described under the new UK requirements, the reporting in accordance with which will be effective from BHP Billitons FY2014 Remuneration Report.
STI Pension Other Deferred US dollars 000 Base salary contribution benefits Cash equity LTI Total Andrew Mackenzie FY2013 242 60 702 128 128 1,208 2,468 Marius Kloppers FY2013 1,906 762 72 1,442 1,442 10,367 15,991 FY2012 2,201 880 109 0 0 12,902 16,092 The data included in the above table is determined according to incoming UK requirements and reports only remuneration relating to performance of the services of an Executive Director for the current year and prior year.
For Andrew Mackenzie in FY2013, this means disclosure of the following amounts for the time served as CEO and as an Executive Director: Base salary: actual cash salary earned from 10 May to 30 June 2013.
Pension contribution: the Companys contribution to pension plans during the same period at 25 per cent of base salary.
Other benefits: pro-rated portion of all benefits paid during FY2013, plus the full amount of the relocation allowance paid in respect of Mr Mackenzies move from the United Kingdom to Australia refer to section 6.4.
STI: a pro-rated portion of Mr Mackenzies STI for FY2013, to reflect the period from 10 May to 30 June 2013, provided in cash or deferred in respect of performance for FY2013.
LTI: a pro-rated portion of the value of 243,126 LTIP awards that vested on 22 August 2013, to reflect the period from 10 May to 30 June 2013, as described in section 6.3.
The total face value of those awards and the associated DEP on the date of vesting and exercise was US$8,480,000.
For Marius Kloppers in FY2013, the amounts disclosed are similarly for the time served as CEO and as an Executive Director from 1 July 2012 to 10 May 2013.
With the exception of pro-rating for time as an Executive Director for Mr Mackenzie, the base salary, pension contribution, other benefits and cash STI amounts shown in the table therefore correspond to the similar columns in the table in section 6.4.
The values shown above for deferred equity STI and LTI do not correspond to those shown in table 6.4.
1 as that table uses a methodology based on amortised IFRS fair values as described in section 6.4.
2 Fixed remuneration Base salary The increase in base salary for Andrew Mackenzie was effective 10 May 2013 upon his appointment as CEO.
Changes in base salary for Mike Henry and Graham Kerr reflect their expanded roles, given to them by the new CEO, as a consequence of the GMC restructure effective 10 May 2013.
These base salary changes apply from 1 September 2013.
Non-statutory table: Base salary amounts in the table below are effective 1 September and are not linked to any specific financial year.
They therefore do not match with the 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013 salaries shown in section 6.4.
US dollars 000 1 September 2011 1 September 2012 % change 1 September 2013 % change Andrew Mackenzie 1,200 1,200 0.0 1,700 41.7 1 Peter Beaven 1,000 1 Dean Dalla Valle 1,000 2 Geoff Healy 1,000 Mike Henry 1,000 1,000 0.0 1,100 10.0 Graham Kerr 1,000 1,000 0.0 1,100 10.0 1 Jane McAloon 750 1 Daniel Malchuk 850 1 Jimmy Wilson 1,000 3 Karen Wood 1,006 1,006 0.0 1,000 0.6 4 Marius Kloppers 2,215 2,215 0.0 4 Alberto Calderon 1,144 1,144 0.0 4 Marcus Randolph 1,279 1,279 0.0 4 J Michael Yeager 1,290 1,290 0.0 1 For Peter Beaven, Dean Dalla Valle, Jane McAloon, Daniel Malchuk and Jimmy Wilson, the table shows the base salary effective from 10 May 2013, for their new roles as GMC members.
Their base salaries prior to this time are not applicable for the purposes of the Remuneration Report.
2 For Geoff Healy, the table shows the base salary applicable from 3 June 2013, when he commenced employment with BHP Billiton.
3 The base salary change for Karen Wood was effective from 10 May 2013.
4 Marius Kloppers, Alberto Calderon and Marcus Randolph retired from the GMC, effective from 10 May 2013 and J Michael Yeager has retired from BHP Billiton, effective from 8 July 2013.
Their 1 September 2013 base salaries are therefore not applicable for the purposes of the Remuneration Report.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 167 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.3.
2 Fixed remuneration continued Pension contribution The table below sets out the pension or superannuation contribution applicable to each individual for their time as a member of the GMC under defined contribution arrangements.
Name % of base salary Name % of base salary 1 Andrew Mackenzie 36.0 to 25.0 Daniel Malchuk 25.0 Peter Beaven 25.0 Jimmy Wilson 25.0 1 Dean Dalla Valle 25.0 Karen Wood 34.4 to 25.0 2 Geoff Healy 25.0 Marius Kloppers 40.0 Mike Henry 25.0 Alberto Calderon 35.0 Graham Kerr 25.0 Marcus Randolph 34.0 Jane McAloon 25.0 J Michael Yeager 35.8 1 The pension contribution percentage for Andrew Mackenzie and for Karen Wood changed to 25.0 per cent of base salary on 10 May 2013 and now align with the pension arrangements for other current GMC members.
2 Prior to his appointment as CEO, and under the terms of a pre-existing contract, Marius Kloppers had the choice of a 1 defined benefit, 2 defined contribution underpinned by a defined benefit promise, or 3 cash in lieu pension entitlement for each year since 1 July 2001.
He elected to take cash in lieu for each year except for FY2004 when he elected to take a defined contribution entitlement with a defined benefit underpin.
Mr Kloppers retains the option to convert the entitlement accrued in the defined contribution fund to a defined benefit entitlement for that one year.
Upon his succession as CEO on 1 October 2007, Mr Kloppers relinquished all future defined benefit entitlements.
Up until 2011 the value of his defined contribution entitlement exceeded, or was only marginally lower than, the transfer value of the defined benefit underpin that he would be entitled to should he revert to the defined benefit promise, and as such the entitlement was treated on a defined contribution basis.
However, as measured at 30 June 2012, the transfer value of the underpin was significantly greater than the defined contribution fund and therefore a disclosure was provided for the defined benefit promise.
The transfer value of the underpin at 10 May 2013 US$898,303 is also significantly greater than the defined contribution fund US$623,278, and as such the disclosure for this defined benefit promise is provided below.
The actual amount that may be paid to Mr Kloppers will be recalculated on his leaving date of 1 October 2013.
US dollars Transfer value of total accrued pension Accumulated total accrued Increase in accrued Increase in transfer pension at 10 May 2013 pension during the year value over the year at 10 May 2013 at 30 June 2012 31,967 619 119,776 898,303 778,527 The increase in accrued pension during the period is the difference between the accrued pension at the end of the previous year and the accrued pension at 10 May 2013 without any allowance for inflation.
The increase in transfer value over the period is the difference between the transfer value at the end of the period and the transfer value at the beginning of the period less the contributions made to the scheme by the participant nil, also without any allowance for inflation.
The increase in accrued pension after making an allowance for inflation of 2.2 per cent was US$71 and the transfer value of that increase less the contributions made to the scheme by the participant was US$1,995.
Other benefits The total value of benefits actually provided to each GMC member during FY2013 is shown in the statutory remuneration disclosure table in section 6.4.
Shareplus all-employee share purchase plan Members of the GMC are also eligible to contribute up to US$5,000 per annum from their post-tax base salary to participate in Shareplus, the all-employee share purchase plan.
More details of the plan and of the current holdings of GMC members under the plan are shown in section 6.4.
Given the nature of the plan, no performance conditions apply to the shares allocated under Shareplus, although a service condition applies in respect of the Matched Shares.
For administrative simplicity in regard to stock exchange dealings and announcements, no GMC members currently participate in Shareplus.
7 shows Shareplus holdings previously accumulated by members of the GMC, including during the period before they became members of the GMC.
The Remuneration Committee does not consider the value of these benefits when determining total remuneration.
An IFRS fair value is ascribed to any Matched Shares and included in remuneration as described in section 6.4.
3 Short-term incentives FY2013 performance measures and outcomes under the GIS STI outcomes for FY2013 have been determined under the GIS program, with the new STIP effective from FY2014.
The GMC scorecard for the FY2013 performance year is shown below.
The level of achievement against each of the non-individual measures for the FY2013 performance year as determined by the Remuneration Committee is described below the table.
A performance range is set for each measure with the level of performance determined as: Threshold: the minimum necessary to qualify for any award.
Target: where the performance requirements are met.
Stretch: where the performance requirements are exceeded.
Exceptional: where the performance requirements are significantly exceeded.
This scorecard applies for each member of the GMC as shown in the table footnotes.
As each new member of the GMC has been in their new role for only a short period, their performance for FY2013 has been assessed against their prior scorecard in their previous role for the whole of FY2013 and in accordance with the Group structure in place at the commencement of FY2013.
These scorecards were based on similar elements as those measured under the GMC scorecard shown below, in that they comprised measures in regard to HSEC, financial and production outcomes, corporate citizenship and individual contribution as applicable to each individuals previous non-GMC role within the Group.
Geoff Healy is not eligible for any FY2013 STI assessment or award as he joined BHP Billiton within the last month of the performance year.
168 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.3.
3 Short-term incentives continued Weighting for Performance for FY2013 GMC members Weighting for Weighting with business other GMC 1 2 3 of CEO responsibility members Threshold Target Stretch Exceptional HSEC: Group 15% 0% 15% Fatalities, Environmental l and Community Incidents Total recordable injury frequency TRIF Business 0% 15% 0% l HSEC Risk Management l l l Health, Environment and Community PAT for the Group adjusted for foreign exchange 50% 25% 35% l movements, commodity prices and exceptional items EBIT for the relevant Business es adjusted for foreign 0% 25% 0% l exchange movements, commodity prices and l l l exceptional items Capital Management cost and schedule Group l cost 15% 7.5% 10% Group l schedule Business l l l cost 0% 7.5% 0% l Business l schedule l Individual measures based on contribution to overall 20% 20% 40% l company performance, key project deliverables of each role and implementation of the operating model.
1SAP system, scalable organisational structure and people strategy, including diversity l BHP Billiton Group l Petroleum l Non-Ferrous l Ferrous & Coal l Aluminium & Nickel 1 Applicable weightings for Marius Kloppers to 10 May 2013.
2 Applicable weightings for Andrew Mackenzie and J Michael Yeager for the whole of FY2013 and for Marcus Randolph and Alberto Calderon to 10 May 2013.
3 Applicable weightings for Mike Henry, Graham Kerr and Karen Wood for the whole of FY2013.
Health, Safety, Environment and Community HSEC As it has done for several years, the Remuneration Committee sought guidance from the Sustainability Committee on HSEC performance for FY2013.
In the first instance, the Sustainability Committee reviewed performance against the designated measures derived from the Groups HSEC public targets set out on page 5 of the Groups Sustainability Report set at the beginning of FY2013.
Following the assessment against the designated measures, the Remuneration Committee also considered it appropriate to then take a holistic view of how the Group has performed in critical areas.
This approach is consistent with that of prior years.
The Sustainability and Remuneration Committees reflected deeply on the tragic loss of three lives during FY2013 one in Petroleum, one in Metallurgical Coal and one in Base Metals.
We remain committed to eliminating fatalities from our Company and we continue to maintain an ever-vigilant focus on safety and fatality prevention through leadership and effective processes.
These elements were paramount in the Committees considerations when determining the STI outcomes for the Group and the prior businesses.
In conjunction with these considerations, both Committees noted improved performance on TRIF across the Group and also solid outcomes emanating from the Companys endeavours in respect of HSEC risk management and health.
However, outcomes in respect of environment, particularly greenhouse gas and water abatement, lagged expectations in several businesses.
The overall Group result for HSEC fell short of expectations marginally below Target, with differentiated levels of HSEC performance across the businesses: Petroleum HSEC performance against targets set was below expectations between Threshold and Target.
Despite reporting significant improvement in TRIF safety performance at our Onshore US shale asset, the occurrence of a fatality and below target performance in the areas of health and environment resulted in the assessment of overall performance being below target.
Ferrous & Coal and Non-Ferrous were considered marginally below expectations marginally below Target, with a fatality in each and below target performance in the environment area, partly offset by strong performance in respect of health outcomes.
Aluminium & Nickel was considered marginally above expectations marginally above Target, with on-track outcomes, on average, across a range of HSEC categories.
Profit After Tax PAT For the reasons noted below in respect of EBIT, in combination with unfavourable impacts against the Groups bottom line of funding costs and taxation against targets, the Group PAT was below expectations between Threshold and Target.
Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT EBIT performance for the businesses against the targets set at the commencement of the year was varied: Petroleum below target between Threshold and Target, with lower production volumes than expected at the commencement of the year.
Ferrous & Coal above targets set at the start of the year and was rated highly at Stretch, primarily due to positive results in respect of FY2013 Iron Ore production volumes.
Non-Ferrous below expectations between Threshold and Target as a consequence of below-target performance on production volumes and cost management.
Aluminium & Nickel above expectations between Target and Stretch as a consequence of above-target performance on cost management.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 169 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.3.
3 Short-term incentives continued Capital management Performance in respect of capital project management metrics varied for FY2013.
The overall Group outcome was positive for capital cost performance between Target and Stretch, reflecting strong cost management on several major projects, partly offset by some capital projects taking slightly longer than expected marginally below Target.
In relation to the businesses: Petroleum performed in line with expectations on capital cost performance marginally above Target, offset by below-expectation performance on capital schedule performance metrics marginally below Target.
Ferrous & Coal performed positively on capital cost performance at Stretch, but performed less well on schedule performance metrics marginally below Target.
Non-Ferrous performed below expectations on capital cost between Threshold and Target and better than expected on schedule performance metrics marginally above Target.
Aluminium & Nickel there were no major capital projects in execution for Aluminium and Nickel during FY2013.
These outcomes reflect the varied cost and schedule outcomes for the 23 major projects in the portfolio at the commencement of FY2013.
Individual measures Individual measures for GMC members are determined at the commencement of the financial year.
The Group Chairman determines the measures for the CEO, and the CEO determines measures for remaining GMC members.
These comprise each individuals contribution to the GMC, delivery against projects and initiatives within the scope of his or her role, and his or her contribution to the overall performance of the Group.
Personal performance of GMC members was reviewed against these measures by the Committee and, on average, was considered marginally above expectations marginally above Target.
STI awards for the FY2013 performance year under the GIS The following table shows the amount of at risk remuneration awarded by the Remuneration Committee as STI awards as a result of Group, Business and individual performance against the above scorecard objectives for the FY2013 performance year with comparative prior year data.
The Deferred Share and or Option awards shown in the table have not yet delivered any realised value to the serving executives, as they generally do not vest and cannot be exercised for at least two years from the end of the relevant performance year, i. e. the FY2013 awards are expected to vest in August 2015.
Different vesting treatment may apply for executives who leave the Group under specific circumstances and where an individual leaves BHP Billiton prior to the normal allocation date of the equity awards, they may instead receive an award in cash.
Non-statutory table: Cash STI awards shown below are the same as those reported in section 6.4.
1, but this table shows the market value of the Deferred Shares and or Options at the time of allocation rather than amortising the IFRS fair value of each award over the relevant performance and service periods as per accounting standards.
The actual number of Deferred Shares allocated is determined by dividing the relevant value by the share price at the time of allocation.
The number of Options required to provide an approximately equivalent value will also be determined should any members of the GMC nominate this alternative, or a combination of Deferred Shares and Options based on a valuation conducted by Kepler Associates.
The values shown in the FY2013 Deferred Shares and Options column for those individuals who are leaving or have left BHP Billiton prior to the normal allocation date in December 2013 after the AGMs represents their notional entitlement to Deferred Shares and Options had they remained in employment at the allocation date.
5, these individuals will receive their FY2013 GIS award pro-rated for the portion of the year served as a GMC member wholly in the form of cash.
These cash awards are not subject to any further deferral.
2 The STI outcome shown for Andrew Mackenzie is based on his performance against his scorecard as Group Executive and Chief Executive Non-Ferrous.
It was also calculated as a percentage of Mr Mackenzies base salary in his previous role of Group Executive and Chief Executive Non-Ferrous as per the rules of the GIS.
He will be assessed against the CEO scorecard from FY2014.
3 The STI maximums and outcomes shown for new members of the GMC appointed on 10 May 2013 are based on their performance against their prior scorecard in their previous non-GMC roles for the whole of FY2013 and also on their base salary in those roles pro-rated for GMC service.
They will be assessed against their GMC scorecards from FY2014.
These new members of the GMC have received their cash and will receive their equity-based STI awards for FY2013 up to 9 May 2013 under the management Group Short Term Incentive Plan GSTIP, which applied to their previous non-GMC positions, and under the GIS in respect of the period in their new GMC positions from 10 May 2013 to 30 June 2013.
4 As Geoff Healys employment with BHP Billiton commenced on 3 June 2013, he is not eligible for an STI outcome in respect of FY2013.
5 As a result of the impairment against the carrying value of Fayetteville shale gas assets acquired from Chesapeake Energy in March 2011, both Marius Kloppers and Mike Yeager advised the Committee that they did not wish to be considered for a STI award for FY2012.
The Committee and the Board respected and agreed with that decision.
6 The STI maximums and outcomes shown for Marius Kloppers, Alberto Calderon and Marcus Randolph are based on the period from 1 July 2012 to 10 May 2013.
No STI has been earned by these individuals for the period after their retirement from the GMC.
7 This simple unweighted average percentage of maximum is graphed against Group earnings later in this section and includes only the GMC members in office at 30 June 2013 that is, it excludes Mr Kloppers, Mr Calderon and Mr Randolph.
170 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.3.
3 Short-term incentives continued Relationship between STI outcomes and Group performance The following graphs are included as part of satisfying an Australian disclosure requirement to show the relationship between KMP remuneration and performance, including earnings.
As described earlier in this section, STI awards for members of the GMC are based on a balanced scorecard of key performance measures.
A substantial component of each scorecard is based on measures that will drive the long-term success and sustainability of the Group, but which may not have a direct correlation to annual profitability.
Only a proportion of STI outcomes are directly related to financial measures, and that proportion varies for different members of the GMC.
The profit measure used for calculating scorecard outcomes as defined earlier in this section is not the same as the disclosed profit attributable to shareholders used in the graph below.
Due to the factors described above, some correlation between STI outcomes and the measures used in the graphs below is evident over the last five years, but there is no guarantee that this will be the case in the future.
Further details of the Groups attributable profit and basic earnings per share over the past five years can be found in section 1.6.
Average STI award for current GMC members Average STI award for current GMC members vs profit vs basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items attributable to shareholders excluding exceptional items 24 400 10 100 0 100 90 90 90 350 20 80 80 80 300 70 70 70 16 250 60 60 60 12 50 200 50 50 40 40 40 150 8 30 30 30 100 20 20 20 4 50 10 10 10 0 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Profit attributable to shareholders excluding exceptional items Basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items Average STI award for current GMC members Average STI award for current GMC members FY2014 performance measures under the STIP The performance measures and weightings set out in the table below have been set by the Remuneration Committee for FY2014.
The measures and weightings for FY2014 differ in certain respects from those used in FY2013, as FY2014 measures and weightings reflect the priorities set for GMC members for FY2014.
Weighting for CEO Weighting for GMC Category and functional members with Business weightings GMC members responsibility HSEC 20% 20% 20% Fatalities, environmental and community incidents Total recordable injury frequency TRIF HSEC risk management Health, environment and community Financial outcomes 40% Group 40% 20% PAT for the Group adjusted for foreign exchange movements, commodity prices and exceptional items Business 0% 20% EBIT for the relevant Business es adjusted for foreign exchange movements, commodity prices and exceptional items Capital management 20% Group 20% 10% Cost and schedule Business 0% 10% Individual performance 20% 20% 20% Individual measures based on contribution to the overall performance of the Company and the management team, key deliverables of each role, including productivity and cost improvement, enhanced stakeholder relations and portfolio optimisation BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 171 Basic EPS excluding exceptional items US cents per share Average STI payments as % maximum award Profit attributable excluding exceptional items US$B Average STI payments as % of maximum award 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.3.
4 Long-term incentives FY2013 LTI granted in December 2012 The following table shows the LTI awards provided as part of total remuneration for FY2013, and allocated in December 2012 following approval of the CEOs award by shareholders at the AGMs with comparative prior year data.
During FY2013, and before their appointment as members of the GMC, all new members of the GMC other than Geoff Healy received awards under the Management Award Plan MAP, as shown in section 6.4.
The first awards under the LTIP for these GMC members and for Geoff Healy will be determined by the Remuneration Committee and allocated in December 2013, along with FY2014 awards for the other members of the GMC.
The maximum award under the LTIP for FY2013 granted December 2012 was a fair value of 200 per cent of base salary as at 1 September 2012 as set out in the table in section 6.2.
Non-statutory table: LTI awards shown below are included in the table in section 6.4.
1, but this table shows the face value and fair value of the awards as described above rather than amortising the IFRS fair value of each award over the relevant performance and service periods as per accounting standards.
Number of US dollars 000 Number of US dollars 000 Performance Shares December 2011 Performance Shares December 2012 allocated in % of max allocated in % of max 1 2 Name December 2011 Face value Fair value December 2011 December 2012 Face value Fair value December 2012 Andrew Mackenzie 146,510 4,400 1,804 75 140,326 4,400 1,804 75 Mike Henry 121,179 3,800 1,558 78 Graham Kerr 108,939 3,800 1,558 78 Karen Wood 85,027 3,146 1,290 64 90,234 3,146 1,290 64 Marius Kloppers 226,721 8,393 3,441 78 240,603 8,393 3,441 78 Alberto Calderon 146,510 4,400 1,804 79 140,326 4,400 1,804 79 Marcus Randolph 119,603 4,427 1,815 71 126,926 4,427 1,815 71 J Michael Yeager 119,603 4,427 1,815 70 126,926 4,427 1,815 70 Average 73 74 1 December 2011 fair values are calculated by multiplying the average closing share price in US dollars over the three months up to and including the grant date being A$36.54 for BHP Billiton Limited shares and 19.06 for BHP Billiton Plc shares by the fair value factor of 41 per cent as determined by Kepler Associates.
The fair value for each executive therefore reflects the number of Performance Shares allocated, the entity over which they apply and the relevant exchange rates where applicable.
2 December 2012 fair values are calculated in the same way as described in footnote 1 above, except that average closing share prices for the three months up to and including the grant date were A$33.64 for BHP Billiton Limited shares and 19.53 for BHP Billiton Plc shares.
A description of the performance conditions applying to the LTI Performance Shares is set out in the table in section 6.2.
The index of peer group companies since 2007 is shown below.
The list of peer group companies is reviewed by the Committee prior to each LTI award being allocated.
December 2007 to 2009 December 2010 to 2012 December 2007 to 2009 December 2010 to 2012 Resources 75% Oil and Gas 25% Alcoa x x Apache x x Anglo American x x BG Group x x Cameco x x BP x Freeport McMoRan x x Devon Energy x x Norilsk x x Exxon Mobil x Peabody Energy x x Shell x Rio Tinto x x Woodside Petroleum x x Southern Copper x x Teck Cominco x x Vale x x 1 GlencoreXstrata x x 1 GlencoreXstrata applicable in the peer group for the December 2012 LTIP award, and replacing Xstrata in the peer group for December 2007 to 2011 awards.
LTI vesting outcomes and the delivery of LTI award The performance hurdle for the 2007 and 2008 LTI awards requires BHP Billitons TSR to exceed the weighted average TSR of a group of peer companies by 5.5 per cent per annum on average over the five years, which is 30.7 per cent over five years.
In order to derive TSR outcomes, BHP Billitons US$ TSR performance is compared against US$ TSR performance of the LTIP comparator group over the five-year performance period.
The following factors comprise the US$ TSR calculation: movements in shares prices in US$ of BHP Billiton and companies in the LTIP comparator group during the five-year performance period, based on the three-month average US$ share price to the start of the five-year performance period three months up to and including 30 June 2008 compared to the three-month average US$ share price to the end of the five-year performance period three months up to and including 30 June 2013.
The averaging period is used to mitigate the consequences of short-term share price and exchange rate fluctuations: dividends paid in US$ by BHP Billiton and companies in the LTIP comparator group during the five-year performance period, assuming that dividends paid are reinvested in the relevant company on the date the dividends were paid.
172 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.3.
4 Long-term incentives continued Upon the introduction of the LTIP in 2004, the Committee, with advice from its independent adviser, Kepler Associates, determined that a common-currency approach using the US$ would be employed for TSR comparisons.
The US$ is the Groups functional and reporting currency, and a common-currency approach helps mitigate the effects of currency movements.
In addition, all GMC members, including those domiciled in Australia and the UK, receive their annual salary and cash STI denominated in US$.
TSR is determined for BHP Billiton and each company in the comparator group in US$.
The index US$ TSR of the comparator group as a whole is then determined i. e. the weighted average of the comparators and BHP Billitons TSR performance against that index TSR is tested.
2008 allocations under the LTIP tested to the end of FY2013 and vested in FY2014 The five-year performance period for the 2008 LTIP ended on 30 June 2013.
For awards to vest in full, BHP Billiton must deliver a TSR that exceeds the TSR of a group of peer companies by an average of 5.5 per cent per year for five years, or 30.7 per cent in total compounded over the five-year performance period.
The weighted average TSR for peer companies was negative 44.0 per cent, which compared to BHP Billitons TSR of negative 9.4 per cent.
As a result, BHP Billiton outperformed its peer companies by 34.6 per cent, and therefore met the requisite performance hurdle for full vesting.
Of the 15 peer companies, only one company recorded a TSR outcome in excess of BHP Billitons, and 14 peer companies recorded negative TSR performance over the five-year performance period.
The impact of the TSR outperformance by BHP Billiton over the weighted average was to add US$78 billion of shareholder value from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2013 over and above performance in line with the weighted average of the comparators as shown in the graphs below.
The rules of the LTIP give the Committee discretion to reduce the number of awards that will vest, notwithstanding the fact that the performance hurdle for full vesting has been met.
This year, the Committee, with the support of the Board, exercised that discretion and reduced vesting by 35 per cent for all current and former participating GMC members.
Accordingly, 35 per cent of awards will not vest and will instead lapse.
In doing so, the Committee took into account a range of factors, including the negative TSR over the five-year performance period that shareholders have experienced.
While the Committee recognised that the TSR performance was delivered in a difficult business environment, it also felt that more closely aligning the experience of shareholders and executives was important.
As always, the Committee also looked at the total remuneration for executives.
This qualitative judgement, which is applied before final vesting is confirmed, is an important risk management aspect to ensure that vesting is not simply driven by a formula that may give unexpected or unintended remuneration outcomes.
While the Committee has exercised its discretion this year, based on its consideration of all relevant factors, this does not imply the discretion will or will not be exercised in future years.
The Committee considers its discretion carefully each year, taking account of the circumstances that are relevant to the five-year period under consideration.
BHP Billiton outperformance of Index BHP Billiton vs. Index US$ TSR performance over the 2008 LTIP cycle over the 2008 LTIP cycle 40 40 Additional BHP Billiton shareholder value creation BHP Billiton Index 5.5% p. a.
20 Index 30 0 BHP -20 20 34.6% TSR outperformance -40 10 -60 -80 0 June 09 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13 June 08 June 09 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13 Year ended 30 June Year ended 30 June A five-year history of BHP Billiton share prices and dividends is provided in section 6.4.
The graph below highlights BHP Billitons comparative performance against the ASX 100, FTSE 100 and the MSCI World index.
Value of US$100 invested over the 2008 LTIP cycle with dividends reinvested $140 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc $120 FTSE 100 ASX 100 $100 Morgan Stanley Capital Index World $80 $60 $40 $20 $0 June 08 June 09 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13 Year ended 30 June BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 173 US$ TSR rebased to 1 July 2008 Outperformance of Index TSR, % TSR since 1 July 2008, % 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.3.
4 Long-term incentives continued CEO award outcomes under the 2008 LTIP When Andrew Mackenzie joined BHP Billiton in 2008, he was granted 450,964 awards based on the 2008 LTIP terms.
225,000 of the LTIP awards were granted in the ordinary course in connection with his role as Chief Executive Non-Ferrous and reflected the grant sizes to the other business Chief Executives.
A further 225,964 awards comprising 100,839 LTIP awards and 125,125 phantom LTIP awards were granted in order to compensate him for equity awards forgone when he left his former employer Sign-on Awards.
The value and quantum of the sign-on awards was calculated by the Committees independent adviser, Kepler Associates, and disclosed at the time.
As all of the 450,964 awards were granted on terms that mirrored the 2008 LTIP, they have now been tested against the TSR performance hurdle and are all subject to the 35 per cent reduction.
In addition, Mr Mackenzie has concluded, and the Committee agrees, that despite the outperformance of BHP Billiton compared to its peer group, the value delivered through vesting of the sign-on awards would be excessive.
Accordingly, Mr Mackenzie has elected to voluntarily relinquish a further 50,000 of the sign-on awards, on top of the 35 per cent reduction.
This means 243,126 of the 450,964 awards originally granted to Mr Mackenzie have vested.
The 243,126 vested awards are delivered to Mr Mackenzie via 211,795 ordinary shares and a cash payment representing 31,331 phantom LTIP awards.
2007 allocations under the LTIP tested to the end of FY2012 and vested in FY2013 As detailed in last years Remuneration Report, the performance period for the 2007 LTIP ended on 30 June 2012, and the 2007 LTIP vested in August 2012.
The number and value of vested Performance Shares for each GMC member are provided in section 6.4.
Over the performance period, BHP Billitons TSR was 41.6 per cent.
In contrast, the weighted average TSR for the peer group against which the Groups performance was measured was negative 4.0 per cent.
Of the 15 peer companies, only two companies recorded TSR outcomes in excess of BHP Billitons 41.6 per cent TSR performance one at 45.6 per cent and one at 41.9 per cent, and eight peer companies recorded negative TSR performance over the five-year performance period.
The impact of this 45.6 per cent outperformance was to add US$75 billion of shareholder value from 1 July 2007 to 30 June 2012 over and above performance in line with the weighted average of the comparators.
Implementation of LTIP for FY2014 Within the LTIP rules, the maximum annual LTI award that can be allocated is set at a fair value of 200 per cent of the participants base salary.
Based on a fair value factor of 41 per cent representing the probability of vesting, this equates to a maximum face value of 488 per cent of base salary i. e. 41 per cent of 488 per cent is 200 per cent.
For the FY2014 awards, which are expected to be allocated in December 2013, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the face value of LTI awards to GMC members will be in the range 300 per cent to 400 per cent of base salary.
On the advice of the Committee, the Board has proposed an award of FY2014 Performance Shares for the CEO, with a face value of US$6,800,000 and fair value of US$2,788,000.
The face value is equal to 400 per cent of the CEOs base salary.
The same performance and service conditions will be used for the FY2014 LTI award as was used for the FY2013 LTI awards for all GMC members.
If approved by shareholders, these FY2014 Performance Shares will be granted following the AGMs i. e. in or around December 2013.
The number of Performance Shares allocated will be notified to shareholders, when provided, along with the number of Performance Shares that will be granted to the other members of the GMC on the same date in respect of FY2014 LTI.
The actual number of Performance Shares to be granted will depend on the share price and exchange rate over the 12 months up to the date of grant.
As an illustration, if the Performance Shares had been granted on 30 August 2013, the number granted to the CEO would have been 196,234 Performance Shares.
LTIP peer companies for FY2014 The list of peer companies has been reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and is shown below.
Resources 75% Oil and Gas 25% Alcoa Norilsk Anadarko Devon Energy Anglo American Peabody Energy Apache EOG Resources Cameco Rio Tinto BG Group Exxon Mobil Consol Energy Southern Copper BP Occidental Fortescue Metals Teck Cominco Canadian Natural Resources Shell Freeport McMoRan Vale Chevron Corp Woodside Petroleum GlencoreXstrata ConocoPhillips A cap and collar mechanism is employed to reduce sensitivity to any single constituent company.
174 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.3.
5 Arrangements for GMC members leaving the Group after 30 June 2013 The arrangements for GMC members leaving the Group are within the approval provided by shareholders at the 2011 AGMs in regard to Australian termination benefits legislation, including the provision of performance-based remuneration in accordance with the rules of the relevant short-term incentive and the long-term incentive plans.
The rules of the GIS outline the circumstances in which participants may be entitled to a cash award for the financial year in which they cease employment, and also in the event that cessation occurs after the end of the financial year but before the date the awards are provided.
Such circumstances depend on the reason for leaving.
The Remuneration Committee has exercised its discretion under the GIS to allow members of the GMC who have retired or are retiring from BHP Billiton prior to the normal grant date of FY2013 deferred equity awards i. e. in December 2013 after the AGMs to receive all of their STI award for FY2013 in the form of cash.
No deferral period will apply in respect of these cash STI awards.
Marius Kloppers will retire from BHP Billiton on 1 October 2013 Until his retirement, Mr Kloppers will receive his base salary and pension contributions and any applicable benefits.
He will not receive any additional payment in relation to his notice period.
Upon his retirement, he will be entitled to the value of the pension and superannuation funds that he has accumulated over his 20 years with the Group.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that Mr Kloppers will receive a pro-rated FY2013 STI award in respect of his performance as CEO from 1 July 2012 to 10 May 2013, as assessed by the Committee and described in section 6.3.
He will receive this award in the form of cash.
Mr Kloppers will not be eligible to receive any STI payment for the period after 10 May 2013 until his retirement in October.
The Committee has assessed the performance of the FY2009 LTIP awards granted December 2008 and determined vesting of these awards in August 2013, as described in section 6.3.
The remaining LTIP awards held by Mr Kloppers, which were granted from December 2009 to December 2012, will be pro-rated, in accordance with the Groups usual practice, to reflect the percentage of the performance period that has elapsed to 1 October 2013.
The remaining LTIP awards will lapse on 1 October 2013 further details are in section 6.1.
The vesting of the retained pro-rated awards will be determined by the Committee at the relevant time in future years.
The awards will only vest if the performance hurdle is met at the end of each five-year performance period, subject to the Committees ability to reduce vesting through its discretion under the plan rules.
J Michael Yeager retired from BHP Billiton on 8 July 2013 Mike Yeager, previously Group Executive and Chief Executive, Petroleum, retired from the GMC on 1 July 2013 and from BHP Billiton on 8 July 2013.
Mr Yeager has received base salary, pension and applicable benefits up to the date of his retirement.
He has received a payment of 12 months base salary and pension in lieu of his notice period, and he has also received the value of the pension and superannuation funds that he has accumulated during his service with the Group.
The Remuneration Committee determined that Mr Yeager would receive a FY2013 short-term incentive award, which was assessed by the Committee, as described in section 6.3.
He received this award in the form of cash.
Upon his retirement, the unvested deferred shares allocated to him in respect of FY2011 vested to him in full Mr Yeager did not receive deferred shares in FY2012, and his unvested LTIP awards were pro-rated, in accordance with the Groups usual practice, to reflect the percentage of the performance period that had elapsed to 8 July 2013.
Marcus Randolph retired from BHP Billiton on 2 September 2013 Until his retirement, Mr Randolph received his base salary and pension and any applicable benefits.
He has received a payment of 12 months base salary and pension in lieu of his notice period and is entitled to the value of the pension and superannuation funds that he accumulated over the term of his service with the Group.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that Mr Randolph would receive a pro-rated FY2013 short-term incentive award in respect of his performance from 1 July 2012 to 10 May 2013, as assessed by the Committee and described in section 6.3.
Mr Randolph was not eligible to receive any short-term incentive payment for the period after 10 May 2013 until his retirement on 2 September 2013.
In accordance with the Groups usual practice under the GIS, Deferred Shares, which were allocated to Mr Randolph in regard to FY2012 performance as shown in section 6.4.
The remaining LTIP awards held by Mr Randolph, which were granted from December 2009 to December 2012, were pro-rated, in accordance with the Groups usual practice, to reflect the percentage of the performance period that had elapsed to 2 September 2013.
The remaining LTIP awards lapsed on 2 September 2013.
Alberto Calderon will leave BHP Billiton on 9 May 2014 Alberto Calderon, previously Group Executive and Chief Executive, Aluminium, Nickel & Corporate Development, retired from the GMC on 10 May 2013 and will remain as an adviser to the CEO until he leaves BHP Billiton on 9 May 2014.
In his position as adviser to the CEO, Mr Calderon will continue to receive his base salary and pension and any applicable benefits.
He will not receive any additional payment in relation to his notice period when he departs on 9 May 2014.
Upon his departure, he will be entitled to the value of the pension and superannuation funds that he has accumulated during his service with the Group.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that Mr Calderon will receive a pro-rated FY2013 short-term incentive award in respect of his performance as a member of the GMC from 1 July 2012 to 10 May 2013, as assessed by the Committee and described in section 6.3.
He will receive this award in the form of cash and deferred equity.
Mr Calderon will not be eligible to receive any short-term incentive payment for the period after 10 May 2013 until he leaves BHP Billiton on 9 May 2014.
In accordance with the Groups usual practice under the GIS, Deferred Shares, which were allocated to Mr Calderon in regard to FY2012 performance as shown in section 6.4.
2, will vest on his leaving date.
The LTIP awards held by Mr Calderon, which were granted from December 2009 to December 2012, will be pro-rated on his departure in May 2014 to reflect the percentage of the performance period that has elapsed to 9 May 2013.
The remaining LTIP awards will lapse.
In August 2013, the Committee assessed the performance of the LTIP awards granted in December 2008 and determined vesting as described in section 6.3.
The relevant portion of Mr Calderons awards were lapsed for time to 9 May 2013 before the vesting result was applied.
The vesting of the other retained pro-rated awards will be determined by the Committee at the relevant time in future years.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 175 6 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration outcomes for Non-executive Directors 6.3.
6 Remuneration table The table below has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 made thereunder and the Australian Corporations Act 2001, and relevant accounting standards.
2 In respect of superannuation benefits, BHP Billiton Limited makes superannuation contributions of nine per cent of fees paid in accordance with Australian superannuation legislation increasing to 9.25 per cent of fees paid in FY2014.
3 FY2012 remuneration for Pat Davies relates to part of that year only, as he joined the Board during the year.
His date of appointment is shown in section 4.1.
176 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.4 Statutory disclosures This section provides details of any additional statutory disclosures required by Australian or UK regulations that have not been included in the previous sections of the Remuneration Report.
Statutory remuneration disclosures for GMC members 6.4.
1 Remuneration table The table below has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 made thereunder and the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and relevant accounting standards.
Remuneration data for all KMP are pro-rated for the periods of FY2012 and FY2013 that each individual served as a member of the GMC.
An explanation of the share-based payments terms used in the table is provided following the table and associated footnotes.
The figures provided in the shaded columns of the statutory table below for share-based payments were not actually provided to the KMP during FY2013.
These amounts are calculated in accordance with accounting standards and are the amortised IFRS fair values of equity and equity-related instruments that have been granted to the executives, either in relation to FY2013 performance or that of prior financial years.
4 and the remainder of this section for information on awards allocated during FY2012 and FY2013.
Amounts shown in this table reflect the amounts paid over the 12-month period from 1 July to 30 June each year pro-rated for time served on the GMC.
All GMC base salaries are expressed and denominated in US dollars.
More detail on base salaries is provided in sections 6.2.
2 Annual cash incentive is the cash portion of STI awards earned in respect of performance during each financial year as described in sections 6.2.
3 shows the STI award earned as a percentage of the maximum award, where the maximum possible award is 100 per cent.
The remaining portion of the 100 per cent maximum has not been earned i. e. it has been forfeited.
The minimum possible value awarded is nil.
Actual payments are made in September, once performance has been assessed, e. g. in September 2013 for FY2013 awards or upon cessation of employment if earlier.
The equity portion of STI awards is described in footnote 6 below.
3 Non-monetary benefits are non-pensionable and include such items as health and other insurances and fees for tax return preparation in multiple jurisdictions, to a capped amount.
4 Other benefits are non-pensionable and include relocation allowances provided to Andrew Mackenzie, Mike Henry and Daniel Malchuk in regard to their international relocations, and to Dean Dalla Valle in regard to his domestic relocation.
These allowances are provided under the Groups global mobility policy and are one-off payments with no trailing entitlements.
Other benefits also include payment of US$99,202 in lieu for leave accrued but not taken by Mr Yeager in FY2013, as US-based Group executives are not allowed to roll forward annual leave entitlements from one financial year to the next.
5 Retirement benefits are calculated as a percentage of base salary for each GMC member, as set out in the table in section 6.3.
6 The percentage of the total remuneration for FY2013, which is made up of options and rights excluding Geoff Healy who has not yet received any allocations, ranges from 13 per cent for Daniel Malchuk to 64 per cent for Alberto Calderon.
7 The amounts shown in this column are described below these footnotes.
They may include awards paid in the form of cash where the individual ceases employment prior to the scheduled allocation date of the awards, e. g. in December 2013 for FY2013 awards.
3 shows the STI awards earned as a percentage of the maximum award, where the maximum possible award is 100 per cent.
These share-based payments may also be forfeited after allocation in specific circumstances as described in section 6.2.
10 and therefore, the minimum possible value of the awards is nil.
The maximum possible value cannot be determined as it depends on future share price movements, but is estimated by the IFRS fair value used for accounting purposes in this table.
At the date of this Annual Report, GMC members had not made their elections for Deferred Shares and or Options in regard to FY2013 GIS awards.
No GMC members elected to receive Options in respect of FY2012 awards.
The actual number of Deferred Shares allocated in respect of FY2012 awards is shown in section 6.4.
7 also describes the Shareplus program and the rights to acquire Matching Shares are included as share-based remuneration in the table.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 177 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.4.
1 Remuneration table continued 8 The amounts shown in this column are described below these footnotes.
4 shows the LTI provided as a percentage of the maximum award, where the maximum possible award is 100 per cent.
10 and therefore the minimum possible value of the awards is nil.
Details of individual awards are set out in the table in section 6.4.
This column also includes the amount allocated to remuneration for each year in respect of awards received by Mr Mackenzie on commencement of employment with BHP Billiton, the vesting outcomes of which are described in section 6.3.
These awards, are in the form of Performance Shares allocated on 4 December 2008 as shown in the table in section 6.4.
3 and conditional rights to receive cash sums under two phantom awards, which are treated as cash-settled share-based payments and are included in this column for the purposes of remuneration.
The awards were approved by the Remuneration Committee for the purposes of compensating Mr Mackenzie for awards forgone by him as a result of leaving his former employer.
The awards were subject to performance and or service conditions.
The value and nature of the awards were determined by the Committee as being an equivalent fair value as that forgone by Mr Mackenzie under the at risk remuneration arrangements operated by his former employer.
In valuing the awards, the Committee sought the advice of its independent adviser, Kepler Associates.
Full details of the awards were disclosed in the FY2009 Annual Report.
9 All remuneration details for FY2013 are for the part of the year relating to service as members of the GMC.
This includes the amount of base salary and retirement benefits provided for the part of the year as members of the GMC, and the relevant portions of non-monetary benefits and of annual relocation allowances which were paid in relation to international moves prior to their appointment as members of the GMC.
The amount shown as annual cash incentive is the amount of cash STI paid for performance for the period as GMC members.
The amounts included in share-based payments include the amortised IFRS fair value of awards provided under the MAP and GSTIP equity plans and as Shareplus Matched Shares prior to appointment as members of the GMC.
The value of STI and Shareplus awards shown in the table includes: the estimated IFRS fair value of Deferred Shares and Options provided as equity or cash settled share-based payments under the GIS and GSTIP as shown in sections 6.4.
The IFRS fair value of the Deferred Shares and Options is estimated at grant date by discounting the total value of the shares that will be issued in the future using the risk-free interest rate for the period to the date of award.
Participants who are provided with awards under the GIS are entitled to a DEP in lieu of the dividends that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares over the period from the allocation date to the time their award vests or is exercised and they receive ordinary shares in BHP Billiton.
Prior to FY2011 awards, a similar DEP entitlement applied to GSTIP Deferred Shares and Options.
This is not the case with awards allocated since October 2011.
From FY2011, there was a change in accounting policy to account for the DEP from cash-settled to equity-settled.
Deferred Shares and Options are awarded to participants following the relevant AGMs awards to the CEO are subject to shareholder approval.
If employment ceases prior to that scheduled allocation of equity awards, the value of the awards may be provided in cash, but would still be included in this column of table 6.4.
Once awarded, the only vesting condition is for participants to remain in employment for two further years.
Accordingly, the number of securities if any that will ultimately vest cannot be determined until the service period has been completed.
The estimated IFRS fair value of the Deferred Shares and Options forms part of the STI at risk remuneration appearing throughout this Remuneration Report.
The IFRS fair value of Deferred Shares and Options is apportioned to annual remuneration based on the expected future service period, which is normally three years.
The vesting of Deferred Shares and Options may be accelerated in the event of leaving the Group, in which case the expected future service period is amended: the estimated IFRS fair value of rights to Matching Shares acquired during each share purchase period under the Shareplus program, as described in section 6.4.
These rights are acquired on each of the quarterly share purchase dates under the program grant dates, and the IFRS fair value is apportioned to annual remuneration based on the future service period required for the Matching Shares to be allocated i. e. the vesting date of the rights.
Where entitlements to the Matching Shares are accelerated on leaving the Group, the expected future service period is amended.
The value of LTI awards shown in the table includes: Performance Shares allocated under the LTIP, Restricted Shares under the MAP and  Restricted Shares awarded as Transitional GMC grants as shown in sections 6.4.
6 are defined as equity-settled share-based payments.
The amount in respect of each LTI award is the estimated IFRS fair value of the Performance Shares as determined by Kepler Associates using a Monte Carlo simulation methodology taking account of the performance hurdle, the term of the award, the share price at grant date, the expected price volatility of the underlying share, the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award and the value of the DEP that will be received on exercise of the award.
The IFRS fair value of each award is apportioned to annual remuneration in equal amounts to each of the years in the expected future service period, which is normally five years.
Where entitlements to Performance Shares are preserved on leaving the Group, the expected future service period is amended.
Equity awards The following sections set out the interests held by members of the GMC under the Groups equity plans.
Each equity award is a conditional right to acquire one ordinary share in BHP Billiton Limited or in BHP Billiton Plc upon satisfaction of the vesting conditions.
The vesting conditions will include performance and or service requirements as relevant to the purpose of the award and as described in each of the following sections.
The value of awards over BHP Billiton Limited shares is shown in Australian dollars and of securities over BHP Billiton Plc shares in Sterling.
The awards are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights.
Dividends are not received by the executives during the vesting period.
Unless stated otherwise in the following sections, a DEP as described in section 6.2.
10 is provided to cover the period between grant and the provision of the ordinary shares to the holder.
A DEP is only provided in relation to awards that have vested upon satisfaction of the relevant conditions.
This payment is not made in relation to any securities that are forfeited during the vesting period.
The Securities Dealing Group Level Document governs and restricts dealing arrangements and the provision of shares on vesting or exercise of awards.
Equity awards provided for GMC service 6.4.
2 STI awards of Deferred Shares and Options under the GIS Awards under the GIS will not deliver any value to the holder for at least two years from the beginning of the financial year in which they are granted unless the executives employment with the Group ends earlier in specific circumstances, such as on death, serious injury, disability or illness, retirement with the agreement of the Company and redundancy retrenchment.
178 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.4.
2 STI awards of Deferred Shares and Options under the GIS continued The terms and conditions of the GIS are largely the same as those of the new STIP, as set out in section 6.2.
10, which will replace the GIS from FY2014.
The main differences as noted throughout section 6.2.
10 are: the maximum potential award under the GIS is 320 per cent of base salary 240 per cent under the new STIP : DEP is provided in cash under the GIS intended to be provided in shares under the new STIP : GIS awards vest in full on cessation of employment in circumstances, including retirement and redundancy awards remain unvested under the new STIP until the scheduled vesting time : the malus and clawback provisions are strengthened in the new STIP.
Each employee may nominate to receive GIS awards in the form of Options or in the form of Deferred Shares or a combination thereof.
The Options have an exercise price determined by the weighted average price at which BHP Billiton shares were traded over the one week up to and including the date of grant.
This is the amount payable by the individual to exercise each Option.
A greater number of Options are therefore allocated if an executive chooses this alternative.
Under the GIS rules, awards will vest and become exercisable on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June.
The expiry date of awards is the day prior to the third anniversary of that vesting date.
2 The market price shown for the December 2012 grant is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on 5 December 2012.
No price is payable by the individual for acquiring the Deferred Shares at the time of grant.
The grant date IFRS fair value of each Deferred Shares is estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2012 and were A$31.72 and 18.30.
3 All 100 per cent of the awards granted under the GIS in December 2010 became fully vested on 3 October 2012 as the service conditions were met, as described in footnote 1.
The price shown is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on that date.
4 The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their award.
5 The amounts shown in this column are the value of the DEP paid on the awards, as described in section 6.2.
6 On 10 May 2013, when Andrew Mackenzie was appointed as a Director, and Marius Kloppers retired as a Director, their holdings were the same as at 30 June 2013.
7 Alberto Calderon exercised some of his vested Deferred Shares on 3 October 2012, and the remainder on 18 December 2013.
8 The December 2012 GIS Deferred Shares for Mr Calderon will vest on his departure from BHP Billiton in May 2014.
9 The December 2012 GIS Deferred Shares for Marcus Randolph vested on his departure from BHP Billiton on 2 September 2013.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 179 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.4.
3 LTI awards of Performance Shares under the LTIP Awards under the LTIP will not deliver any value to the holder for at least five years from the beginning of the financial year in which they are granted unless the executives employment with the Group ends earlier in specific circumstances, such as on death, serious injury, disability or illness.
The terms and conditions of the LTIP, including the performance conditions, are described in sections 6.2.
The key differences between the prior LTIP and the new LTIP effective from December 2013 allocations are: under the new LTIP, DEP is intended to be provided in the form of shares rather than in cash : the malus and clawback provisions are strengthened in the new LTIP.
Under the LTIP rules, awards will vest and become exercisable on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June.
The expiry date of awards is the day prior to the fifth anniversary of that vesting date.
No price is payable by the individual for acquiring the Performance Shares at the time of grant.
The accounting grant date IFRS fair values of the awards are estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2012, using a Monte Carlo simulation, and were A$14.16 and 7.91.
3 All 100 per cent of the Performance Shares granted under the LTIP in December 2007 became fully vested on 2 October 2012, following the performance hurdle being fully achieved and the Remuneration Committee considering its discretion over the vesting outcome, as described in section 6.3.
4 The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their Performance Shares.
No price is payable by the individual for exercising the Performance Shares.
One ordinary BHP Billiton share is acquired for each Performance Share exercised.
5 The amounts shown in this column are the value of DEP paid on awards as described in section 6.2.
6 The awards allocated to Andrew Mackenzie on 4 December 2008 included 225,000 Performance Shares allocated to him as part of FY2009 Total Remuneration and a further 100,839 Performance Shares allocated to him on commencement with BHP Billiton, in relation to at risk rewards forfeited when he left his former employer.
More information on Mr Mackenzies commencement arrangements is included in footnote 7 to the table in section 6.4.
7 On 10 May 2013, when Andrew Mackenzie was appointed as a Director, and Marius Kloppers retired as a Director, their holdings were the same as at 30 June 2013.
8 The Unvested LTIP awards held by members of the GMC on the date that they leave BHP Billiton in FY2014 have been, or will be, pro-rated as set out in section 6.3.
5 and remain subject to performance and vesting conditions.
180 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.4.
4 Awards of  Restricted Shares as Transitional GMC grants As shown in section 6.4.
6, the final MAP awards allocated to Mr Henry and Mr Kerr in November 2011 in their non-GMC management positions have a three-year service condition and are due to vest in 2014.
The LTIP awards provided to Mr Henry and Mr Kerr in December 2012 as GMC members, and shown in section 6.4.
3 have a five-year service and performance condition and may vest in 2017.
Therefore, as a transitional step, Mr Henry and Mr Kerr also received Transitional GMC awards in December 2012 as shown in the table below.
The Remuneration Committee may determine that similar awards be allocated in December 2013 to individuals who have joined the GMC since May 2013 from within the Company.
These awards have two tranches.
Tranche one has a three-year service and performance condition and may vest in 2015.
Tranche two has a four-year service and performance condition and may vest in 2016.
The Committee has absolute discretion to determine if the performance condition has been met and whether any, all or some of the Restricted Shares will vest or otherwise lapse, having regard to but not limited to BHP Billitons TSR over the threeor four-year performance period respectively, the participants contribution to Group outcomes and the participants personal performance with guidance on this assessment from the CEO.
No DEP is payable on these awards.
The treatment of the awards on cessation of employment will depend on the circumstances and is similar to those for LTIP awards.
If the participants employment ceases due to dismissal or resignation, any unvested awards will lapse immediately.
If the reason for cessation is death, serious injury, disability or illness, then the awards will vest in full on the date of cessation.
If the participant retires from the Group with the agreement of the Company, is made redundant or employment is terminated by mutual agreement, then a proportion of the award pro-rated to reflect the percentage of the Performance Period that has elapsed will continue on foot and vest, subject to the performance condition, on the future vesting date.
The remaining Restricted Shares will lapse.
In all other circumstances, the Committee in its absolute discretion will determine the number of Restricted Shares that vest or lapse.
Aggregate At At Market price Market price gain on Date of 1 July 30 June Date award on date of on date of awards 1 2 Name grant 2012 Granted Vested Lapsed Exercised 2013 may vest grant vesting 000 Mike Henry 5 Dec 2012 19,930 19,930 Aug 2016 19.98 5 Dec 2012 19,930 19,930 Aug 2015 19.98 Total 39,860 39,860 Graham Kerr 5 Dec 2012 17,917 17,917 Aug 2016 A$34.29 5 Dec 2012 17,917 17,917 Aug 2015 A$34.29 Total 35,834 35,834 1 The holding period for each award ends on 30 June in the year the award may vest if the conditions for vesting are met as described above the table.
Awards will vest on or as soon as practicable after the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June.
2 The market prices shown are the closing prices of BHP Billiton shares on 5 December 2012.
No price is payable by the individual for acquiring the Restricted Shares at the time of grant.
The grant date IFRS fair values of the awards are estimated at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2012, and were $28.90 and 16.33 for tranche one, and A$28.10 and 15.78 for tranche two.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 181 6 Remuneration Report continued Equity awards provided for pre-GMC service 6.4.
5 STI awards of Deferred Shares and Options under the GSTIP and GIS The table below shows awards that were held by the executives at the time that they were appointed to the GMC or were allocated in relation to performance and service before they became GMC members.
Prior to their appointment as members of the GMC, the individuals listed in the tables below received STl awards: under the Group Short Term Incentive Plan GSTIP, which has applied for the non-GMC management of BHP Billiton since the awards allocated in FY2010 in relation to FY2009 performance : prior to that under the GIS, which applied to non-GMC management as well as to the GMC members before the GSTIP was introduced.
The terms and conditions of the GSTIP awards are essentially the same as those provided under the GIS.
Under both plans, participants must satisfy applicable STl performance conditions in order to be eligible for any award.
Due to changes in the GSTIP, which applied to all participants in that plan, no DEP is payable on the GSTIP awards that were allocated in FY2012 in relation to FY2011 performance or since that time.
2 The holding period for each award ends on 30 June in the year the award may vest and become exercisable if the conditions for vesting are met including the relevant service conditions.
Under the GSTIP, awards will vest and become exercisable on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June.
Where applicable, the expiry date of awards is the day prior to the third anniversary of that vesting date.
3 The market price shown for grants during FY2013 is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the relevant date of grant.
The grant date IFRS fair values of the awards are estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2012, and were A$31.72 and 18.30.
4 All 100 per cent of the Deferred Shares granted under the GSTIP in October 2010 became fully vested on 3 October 2012 as the service conditions were met, as described in footnote 1.
5 The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their Deferred Shares.
No price is payable by the individual for exercising the Deferred Shares.
One ordinary BHP Billiton share is acquired for each Deferred Share exercised.
6 The amounts shown in this column are the value of the DEP paid on the awards as described in section 6.2.
7 The awards shown for Graham Kerr and Mike Henry with a grant date of 22 August 2013 had this allocation date due to administrative reasons, but were made on the same basis as if they had been made on 5 December 2012.
182 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.4.
6 LTI awards of Restricted Shares under the MAP and Performance Shares under the LTIP The table below shows awards that were held by the executives at the time that they were appointed to the GMC.
Prior to their appointment as members of the GMC, the individuals listed in the tables below received LTI awards: under the Management Award Plan MAP, which has applied for the non-GMC management of BHP Billiton since FY2009: prior to that under the LTIP, which applied to non-GMC management as well as to the GMC members before the MAP was introduced.
Mr Henry and Mr Kerr received their first LTIP awards as members of the GMC in December 2012 as shown in section 6.3.
Other GMC members listed will receive their first LTIP award in December 2013.
The vesting of MAP awards is subject to a service condition of continued employment with the Group through to the vesting date as shown in the table below.
Where a participant resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the vesting date, their unvested MAP awards are forfeited.
If a participants employment ends due to death, illness or injury, a pro rata number of unvested Restricted Shares will vest based on the portion of the relevant vesting period served.
Due to changes in the MAP, which applied to all participants in that plan, no DEP is payable on the MAP awards that were allocated in FY2012 or since that time.
Under the MAP rules, awards will vest and become exercisable on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June.
Where applicable, expiry date of awards is the day prior to the third anniversary of that vesting date.
3 The market prices shown for grants during FY2013 are the closing prices of BHP Billiton shares on the relevant date of grant.
No exercise requirement or expiry date applies to these awards as described above the table.
4 All 100 per cent of the Restricted Shares granted under the MAP in October 2009 became fully vested on 3 October 2012 as the service conditions were met as in footnote 1.
5 The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their Restricted Shares.
No price is payable by the individual for exercising the Restricted Shares.
One ordinary BHP Billiton share is acquired for each Restricted Share exercised.
7 During FY2012, two MAP awards were allocated to Mr Henry and Mr Kerr.
An initial grant of Restricted Shares was provided on the relevant date of grant at the same time and on the same basis as allocations for all other non-GMC management.
Additional awards were provided on 25 November 2011 in recognition of their increased responsibilities as members of the GMC over the remainder of FY2012.
184 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.4.
7 Awards of Matched Shares under the Shareplus all-employee share purchase plan Like all permanent employees, members of the GMC are eligible to participate in Shareplus, an all-employee share purchase plan.
For administrative simplicity in regard to stock exchange dealings and announcements, no GMC members currently participate.
This table shows Shareplus holdings previously accumulated by members of the GMC, including during the period before they joined the GMC.
Participants in Shareplus contribute from their post-tax base salary capped at US$5,000 per year to acquire shares in BHP Billiton Limited or in BHP Billiton Plc.
For each share purchased, the participant receives a right to acquire a Matched Share, which vests provided the participant remains employed by BHP Billiton on the third anniversary of the start of the relevant Shareplus Plan Year.
Differences in exchange rates in relation to the base salaries of the participants in previous financial years and the currencies of each securities exchange result in minor differences in the numbers of shares allocated.
2 Rights to Matched Shares were granted quarterly during FY2013 as the participant purchased shares in BHP Billiton under the plan Acquired Shares for the 2012 Shareplus Plan Year i. e. from salary contributions from June 2012 to May 2013.
3 Matched Shares allocated upon the vesting of rights acquired during the 2010 Shareplus Plan Year i. e. from salary contributions from June 2010 to May 2011.
4 The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the relevant vesting date.
Matched Shares are allocated on vesting.
There is no exercise action required by the holder and no DEP is payable.
5 On 10 May 2013, when Andrew Mackenzie was appointed as a Director, and Marius Kloppers retired as a Director, their holdings were the same as at 30 June 2013.
6 Unvested rights to Matched Shares held by members of the GMC on the date that they leave BHP Billiton in FY2014 will vest on their date of departure.
7 Mike Yeager received American Depositary Receipts ADRs listed on the New York Stock Exchange, each equivalent to two BHP Billiton Limited shares.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 185 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.4.
8 Estimated value range of equity awards The current face value of STI and LTI awards allocated during FY2013 and yet to vest to be disclosed under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 is the number of awards as set out in the previous tables multiplied by the current share price of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc as applicable.
The actual value that may be received by participants in the future cannot be determined as it is dependent on, and therefore fluctuates with, the share prices of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc at the date that any particular award is exercised.
The table below provides five-year share price history for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, and history of dividends paid.
Five-year share price and dividend history 1 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 BHP Billiton Limited Share price at beginning of year A$44.45 A$33.96 A$36.94 A$43.97 A$31.72 Share price at end of year A$34.72 A$37.65 A$43.80 A$31.45 A$31.37 Dividends paid A$1.12 A$0.95 A$0.95 A$1.03 A$1.10 BHP Billiton Plc Share price at beginning of year 18.97 13.75 17.28 24.39 18.30 Share price at end of year 13.64 17.54 24.47 18.06 16.82 Dividends paid 0.51 0.53 0.58 0.69 0.73 1 The highest share price during FY2013 was A$39.00 for BHP Billiton Limited shares and 22.36 for BHP Billiton Plc shares.
Lowest share prices during FY2013 were A$30.18 and 16.73 respectively.
Other statutory disclosures for Directors 6.4.
9 Retirement disclosures for the Non-executive Directors The following table sets out the accrued retirement benefits under the now-closed Retirement Plan of BHP Billiton Limited.
The Retirement Plan was closed on 24 October 2003 and entitlements that had accumulated in respect of each of the participants were frozen.
These will be paid on retirement.
An earnings rate equal to the five-year Australian Government Bond Rate is being applied to the frozen entitlements from that date.
Change in lump sum Lump sum entitlement at Completed service at entitlement during 1 US dollars 30 June 2013 years the year 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 David Crawford 19 16,665 576,606 559,941 John Schubert 13 8,327 288,119 279,792 1 Since the closure of the Retirement Plan, no further entitlements have accrued.
The movement reflects the application of the earnings rate and foreign exchange rate the translation from Australian dollars to US dollars for the Remuneration Report to the lump sum entitlement at the date of closure.
10 Aggregate Directors remuneration This table sets out the aggregate remuneration of Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 made thereunder.
For 2013, the emoluments pension contributions include the relevant portions for each of the Executive Directors, as in section 6.3.
US dollars million 2012 2013 Emoluments 6.5 9.1 Termination payments 1 Awards vesting under LTI plans 9.1 13.3 Gains on exercise of Options Pension contributions 0.9 0.9 Total 16.5 23.3 1 For the purposes of this UK requirement, LTI plans includes both the STI and LTI awards for Marius Kloppers, being the Director at the time of vesting.
The value shown for 2013 is the US$ equivalent of the aggregate gain of the GIS Deferred Shares exercised as shown in section 6.4.
2 and of the LTI Performance Shares vested and exercised as shown in section 6.4.
This Report was approved by the Board on 12 September 2013 and signed on its behalf by: John Buchanan Chairman, Remuneration Committee 12 September 2013 186 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013
