Chairmans statement Our strong performance in 2013 is underpinned by Amlins market-leading franchise and diverse portfolio.
Amid significant changes in the trading environment for some key business lines, we continued positioning the business for future sustainable growth.
These efforts will move us closer to achieving our vision to be the benchmark for quality in all our markets.
8 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report Strategic report governance Financial StatementS The Board has proposed an increase of 10.3% our diverse portfolio and investment, Our results and dividend in the final dividend to 18.2 pence per share particularly in Leadenhall Capital Partners, Amlins result for 2013 reflects a good 2012: 16.5p.
The final dividend will be paid position us well to meet these challenges performance across much of our business, on 29 May 2014 subject to shareholder and exploit opportunities.
with another strong underwriting result approval to shareholders on the register from our Amlin London and Bermudian The Board, management team and employees on 22 April 2014. businesses and continued improvement are united in one goal: to position our business from Amlin Europe.
Building our strategy Major catastrophe activity in the year was During 2013, we focused on positioning Governance and the Board relatively benign.
However, European flooding Amlin for the future so the Group can keep In 2012, an external review of the Boards in May and June together with numerous small delivering long-term value to our performance delivered a broadly positive catastrophe events, including hail in France shareholders, clients, employees and other outcome.
The review also identified areas for and windstorms in October and December stakeholders.
Notably, the Board and senior development, in particular, succession across the UK and Northern Europe, led to a management reviewed Amlins strategy and planning, which was reviewed again in 2013. small loss in Amlin Re Europe and impacted it confirmed that while remaining focused on For more information about this refer to performance in the UK.
our Vision of being the benchmark for quality page 73. in our markets, we will place client intimacy Amlin UK continued to benefit from the higher up the agenda as a means of driving During 2013, the Remuneration Committee upward trend in UK commercial market profitable growth, will seek to increase has been reviewing the way we report our pricing, particularly fleet motor.
Amlin London synergies across the Group, particularly Directors remuneration and has recently and Amlin Bermuda benefited from peak or between Leadenhall Capital Partners and consulted with our major shareholders on near peak catastrophe reinsurance rates at our traditional reinsurance businesses, and our policy.
Further detail can be found on January 2013 renewals, although US will look to achieve meaningful efficiencies page 84. catastrophe pricing came under significant through an organisational review which pressure as the year progressed.
Marty Feinstein was appointed Senior takes account of the growth of the Group Independent Director following Nigel Whilst catastrophe losses resulted in a small in recent years.
I am pleased to loss in Amlin Re Europe, we continued to We continued investing in systems and report that Marty is performing exceptionally grow its portfolio, territorially and by client, resources to enhance efficiency.
These well in his new role.
and we are confident in the prospects for included Nexus: a major project to improve this business.
As previously reported, Brian Carpenter will financial processes, systems and reporting be retiring during 2014.
Brian has been a Amlin Europes contribution to overall profit across the Group.
Nexus will enable us to Board member since 2000 and his extensive increased again, as work to improve the produce high-quality business information market knowledge and underwriting marine portfolio, implement Amlin business quickly, providing enhanced analytical experience have been invaluable as the Group practices and integrate the business with the capabilities, and meeting evolving business has developed.
His legacy as Underwriting wider Group bore fruit.
Director of Amlin UK, reflected in the In continuing volatile investment markets, People are our key asset and, during the year, business long-term growth and excellent another strong investment return of 3.6% we developed our Talent Management performance, speaks for itself.
I wish him well contributed to our overall growth in pre-tax strategy, as described on page 38.
profit to 325.7 million, with a return on continuing to invest in high-calibre people Sir Alan Collins, an independent Nonequity of 19.8%.
Amlins balance sheet is across a range of disciplines.
This will ensure Executive Director, has also announced that strong and capital headroom increased to we have the resource to support a larger and he wishes to retire at the AGM in May 2014.
573.9 million above managements more diverse business.
I would like to thank Sir Alan for his insight assessed capital needs.
We also reviewed Group-wide remuneration and the experience he has shared with the We remain committed to managing our during the year.
We intend to make Board and to wish him well in his future capital efficiently in the best interests of remuneration structures more comparable Non-Executive career.
To this end, we regularly review across the business and enable greater the level of capital relating to opportunities staff mobility within the Group.
For more and constraints offered by the trading information regarding this review, see environment and the requirements of Amlins page 84. strategic objectives.
With the strength of our Outlook market positions, particularly in reinsurance Our marketplace is changing rapidly, and marine, we believe that there are still Richard Davey particularly for London specialty insurance good opportunities to grow the business Chairman and for global catastrophe reinsurance.
while generating a cross cycle return of Our scale in our chosen markets, as well as at least 15%.
