Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Chairmans statement A YEAR OF SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS Solid performance and resilience in the face of tougher market conditions towards the end of the year Market conditions were buoyant for most of Corporate governance the year, though in the last months there was The Board considers corporate governance a sharp and largely indiscriminate sell-off in risk matters and adherence to codes of best practice assets across most of the Emerging Markets, to be of upmost importance.
As Chairman of the largely caused by concerns over the timing of the Board, I believe that it has operated effectively withdrawal of quantitative easing by the US Federal through the year and that its role and its Reserve.
Ashmores specialist knowledge and active composition are well defined, appropriate and investment management style come to the fore support the long-term development of the Group.
As a unitary Board, one of our principal tasks Overall the Group has had a successful year is to ensure that our membership has the right with strong growth in assets under management, skills and knowledge base relevant to our business, up by 22% to stand at US$77.4 billion, coming from and to plan for succession, as existing directors both new and existing clients, and is a direct result come to the end of their tenures.
These issues of the investment we have made in our distribution are a regular topic of discussion during the Board activities.
We have also continued to build our evaluation process, and where we have a specific domestic asset management presence within vacancy to fill or where we have decided to add Emerging Markets, establishing offices in Indonesia further to the Board, the Nominations Committee and in China.
will engage an independent search consultant, with no connection to the Group, to assist us The Groups financial performance was solid.
Profitability was maintained at an industry-leading level, with an EBITDA margin of71%.
Profit before Jonathan Asquith retired at the Groups AGM tax increased 6% to 257.6 million and diluted in October and I should like to thank him for the earnings per share rose 11% to 28.69p.
contribution he made to the Board over four years.
In February the Group announced the appointment Recognising the financial performance achieved to the Board of two Non-executive Directors: during the year, and the Boards confidence in future Dame Anne Pringle DCMG, and Charles Outhwaite.
growth, the Directors are recommending a final Dame Anne has considerable and valuable dividend of 11.75p per share for the year ended experience as a diplomat with the Foreign and 30 June 2013, which, subject to shareholders Commonwealth Office, focusing in particular approval, will be paid on 6 December, to those on the EU, Russia and Eastern Europe, including shareholders on the register on 8 November.
serving as Ambassador to the Russian Federation The Board intends to pay a progressive dividend over time, taking into consideration factors such from 2008 to 2011.
Charles has over 25 years of as prospects for the Groups earnings, demands experience in corporate finance, with a particular on the Groups financial resources, and the markets focus on financial services.
He is currently a senior in which the Groupoperates.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3 Chairmans statement continued Both the new Directors have undertaken a full induction programme, with the support of the Board and senior management, to familiarise them with their duties and responsibilities and all relevant aspects of the Groups business.
In due course they will be appointed to Board committees to suit their particular experience and expertise.
Good business momentum as a result of prior investment, and an enhanced Board to support future growth.
The Board now comprises eight members of whom six are non-executive and two are female: I am therefore pleased to report that the Board complies with the best practice recommendations of the Davies Report in respect of its composition.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity, including the balance of skills, experience, gender and nationality amongst many other factors when reviewing the appointment of new Directors, but does not consider it appropriate to establish quotas or targets in this regard.
Furthermore, and consistent with the emphasis the Board places on maintaining high standards of corporate governance, I am delighted that in May this year the Group became a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment.
A more detailed report on corporate governance is provided on pages 40 to 46.
Ashmores investment processes, distribution platform and operational infrastructure are well placed to cope with the prevailing uncertain market conditions.
Notwithstanding the accomplishments of the year, there remains much to do, to build out the Groups access to capital and investment opportunities around the world, and the Group faces this task with confidence.
The Board recognises and is grateful for the hard work and commitment of everyone across the Groups operations over the past year.
Michael Benson Chairman 4 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
