4 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Chairmans statement A year of transformation Key statistics in 2013 2013 has been a very important year for Aviva and for shareholders.
proceeds than originally expected, and our businesses in Russia and Malaysia.
We sold John McFarlane Chairman our remaining holding in Delta Lloyd N. V. and reached a satisfactory settlement with Bankia 2.8bn in Spain.
Avivas major interests are now largely Total IFRS profit concentrated in the UK, France and Canada, before tax but the Group does have attractive businesses elsewhere in Europe and in the faster growth Asia region.
Operating performance The Groups adjusted operating profit grew by 6% during the year to 2,049 million.
17% Contributing to this was a continuation of a increase 2013 has been a very important year for Aviva Group-wide cost reduction programme that has and for shareholders.
The positive changes made now delivered savings of 360 million out of the Share price growth by your Board and management, have begun to during 2013 400 million target by the end of 2013, with the rebuild our reputation amongst investors that we full reduction now embedded in the 2014 plan.
Of course, much is yet to be The economic capital base and Group liquidity done, but Im sure shareholders will endorse the have also been strengthened significantly.
This progress that has been made, over a relatively has built our financial strength and lowered the short time.
I would particularly like to thank my risk of the Group.
We plan further strengthening Board colleagues and our management team, over the coming years, accompanied by a for their contribution to this.
reduction in internal and external leverage.
15.0p We have strengthened significantly our Total dividend A new management team risk management and audit processes, and At the beginning of the year, Mark Wilson was have invested heavily in preparing for the appointed as your Group Chief Executive Officer.
implementation of Solvency II in January 2016, Mark has strong credentials for this role, and this and for our being designated a Global has since been demonstrated in the changes Systemically Important Insurer.
Mark has made to upgrade significantly the calibre of our management team, as well as the overall performance and financial security of the Company.
New leadership was appointed to UK & Ireland General Insurance, Europe, Aviva Investors Management has and Asia, and to transformation and human overseen significant resources.
A new Chief Information Officer will also join the Group in April 2014. change in the Groups business portfolio to Business portfolio narrowed focus on the most Management has overseen significant change attractive segments.
in the Groups business portfolio, to focus on the most attractive segments and where we have the greatest chance of success.
During the year we completed the sales of John McFarlane the US business, for which we received higher Chairman Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 5 Aviva plc Chairmans statement continued Annual report and accounts 2013 The Group has also worked effectively with our I am pleased to announce that Tom Stoddard regulators around the world, and particularly with will be joining as the new Chief Financial Officer Committee the new Prudential Regulation Authority and the on 5 May 2014.
Tom joins from Blackstone, the chairmen Financial Conduct Authority in the UK.
global investment and advisory firm, and has experience in advising insurance companies.
As at the date of this Dividend report, the Board Last year, we made the difficult decision to Our people committees are chaired reduce dividend levels with reference to our It has nevertheless been a challenging year by the following earning capacity and cash flows, and eliminate for our workforce in the face of significant cost Non-Executive the dilutive scrip dividend programme.
However, despite this, our people have Directors: Notwithstanding this, shareholders have retained their focus on the business and delivered Audit Committee: benefitted from significant share price growth very strong results.
Glyn Barker that more than offset the lower dividend.
The increased certainty and confidence in the Governance The Board is able to declare a final dividend of business as we move forward will make Aviva Committee: 9.40 pence per share 2012: 9.00 pence.
We are a better place to work.
We have also aligned Scott Wheway also introducing a dividend reinvestment plan employees interests with shareholders through Nomination DRIP, which allows shareholders to reinvest their share plan schemes and employees will be able Committee: dividend in the Companys shares through a to benefit in the Groups improvement.
John McFarlane market purchase rather than a new issue of The Board is very grateful for the continued Remuneration shares.
This avoids the dilutive effect that the effort and support of our staff in what has been Committee: previous Scrip dividend scheme had over time.
Patricia Cross Risk Committee: Board and governance Investing in communities Michael Hawker, AM.
It is an honour for me to serve as your Chairman.
We focus our investment in communities on During 2013 and more recently, there have been the issues that matter most to our customers a number of changes to your Board.
Sir Adrian and those that are most closely aligned to Montague was appointed as Senior Independent our business, to maximise the value of our Director.
Sir Adrian has significant experience of investment.
We also provide access to insurance the financial services industry and government for all areas of society such as affordable contents and regulatory issues.
insurance to low income households, a flexible We also appointed a number of new insurance solution for learner drivers, and the non-executive directors, with relevant experience provision of low-cost insurance policies for in financial services, with the appointment of individuals in the Indian sub-continent on low Bob Stein, Michael Mire and Patricia Cross.
incomes, for a policy premium of less than Aviva is making good progress in complying 2 a year.
with Lord Davies proposals which we aim to fulfil Aviva Investors also works with fund managers with the search, currently in progress, and analysts globally to integrate environmental, for an additional director.
social and corporate governance issues into During the year we have also made a number our investment decision-making and analysis of changes to Board committees as part of an to deliver long-term shareholder value for ongoing programme to refresh membership.
I believe we have a strong, experienced and diverse Board with a good balance of skills, and Looking ahead remain comfortable that the Board exercises Aviva is a very significant company in our sector in strong and robust challenge as well as strategic the UK and internationally.
With the changes we oversight to the executive team.
have made, and continue to make, I am confident The year saw Russell Walls and Richard Goeltz that Aviva has the necessary foundation to grow, retire from the Board as non-executive directors, and to generate good returns, at acceptable following nine years service, and the resignation risks going forward.
I believe for us and for our of Trevor Matthews as executive director.
I would shareholders, the best is yet to come.
like to thank them for their contribution to the Board and committees.
Patrick Regan resigned as Chief Financial Officer on 22 January 2014 and will step down from the Board before the AGM.
Pat has been a tremendous support to Mark in Avivas financial John McFarlane Chairman transformation.
He leaves with my best wishes To read the Chairmans Governance letter, turn 5 March 2014 and those of Avivas Board.
