Ten years ago, Georgia embarked upon BANK OF GEORGIA ENJOYED ANOTHER STRATEGIC REPORT a path of transforming its Soviet-legacy YEAR OF RECORD RESULTS AND THIS OVERVIEW: political and economic system into a ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS market-oriented democracy.
As the Groups CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WILL PROVIDE THE DETAILS ABOUT Board Chairman for nearly four years, I have OUR STRATEGY, EXECUTION AND had a remarkable opportunity to observe OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL and appreciate how Georgia succeeded in PERFORMANCE.
IN THIS YEARS LETTER tackling the main challenge for a post-Soviet country corruption, virtually eliminating I WOULD LIKE TO FOCUS ON GEORGIA the countrys Soviet-era bureaucracy and AND SUMMARISE DEVELOPMENTS IN replacing it with efficient and functioning THE YEAR 2013, WHICH CAPS THE MOST administrative bodies.
Among the most FORMATIVE DECADE IN THE COUNTRYS noteworthy free-market-oriented reforms RECENT HISTORY.
behind Georgias economic success were simplification of the tax regime, cutting red tape, creating business and an investor friendly environment.
We became witnesses to how effectively these measures translated into the turnaround of the countrys economy and the evolution of the private sector into a dynamic business environment.
Georgias liberal economic regime and ample growth CHAIRMANS LETTER For more information about our governance, see page 66 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 4 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 opportunities have been attracting foreign modernisation of the country.
To this end, New Board Members direct investment and pleasantly surprising one of the key encouraging signs that foreign visitors, the number of which grew I would like to point out is the enactment of from a mere 300,000 in 2003 to an the Economic Liberty Act as of 1 January estimated 5.4 million in 2013, exceeding 2014, which will ensure the continuation of the 4.5 million population of Georgia.
the countrys credible fiscal and monetary Quite impressively, Georgia enjoyed an policy framework.
In addition, Georgia is average annual growth of 5.9% of its real expected to strongly benefit from the GDP from 2004 to 2013. signing of the Association Agreement Left to right: with the European Union, expected in Bozidar Djelic Excluding the Eastern European states, June 2014.
This agreement is expected Independent Non-Executive Director Georgia started 2013 as the first post-Soviet to include a deep and comprehensive Tamaz Georgadze country to change power through peaceful free trade agreement that should support Independent Non-Executive Director and democratic parliamentary elections.
Georgias economic development and bring Kim Bradley These elections were held in October 2012. the country closer to the West.
This may Independent Non-Executive Director The change of power through elections was be the most interesting time for Georgia, a new experience for Georgias young the Georgians and for those who are democracy.
2013 was also a transitional investing in Georgias future.
year from a presidential to a parliamentary Real GDP growth rate, % system of government, which came into Bank of Georgia, the countrys marketforce with the Presidential elections at the leading franchise, is in the right place at end of October 2013.
Georgias Presidential the right time to play an important role in elections were the most free and uneventful Georgias unfolding progress and benefit elections for the country during its two from the economic development of the decades of independence.
We believe in the effectiveness of composition of the new Parliament, with our business model and the ability of the an effective opposition, stalled decisionmanagement team to execute our strategy making processes and therefore, economic and continue delivering high-quality growth for the most part of the year, it has, diversified growth.
more importantly, resulted in greater political pluralism, debate in the Parliament and In conclusion, as a Chairman of the Board overall involvement of the non-governmental of Directors, I would like to note the sector, which are essential components of changes we made on our Board in line a functioning democratic state.
with our commitment to the continuous improvement of our corporate governance It pleases me to note that despite the practices.
In 2013, the Board of Directors Source: Geostat challenges associated with the transitional of BGH resolved to ensure that our period and the change of power, last year Non-Executive Board members would all has demonstrated the sustainability of be fully independent under UK standards.
the earlier reforms, institutional strength As a result, two Non-Independent Directors, and the maturity of the Georgian society.
Ian Hague and Hanna Loikkanen resigned, Democratic values and practices have as did Allan Hirst, an Independent Director become a norm for businesses and society also left the Board after a nine-year tenure.
Governments effectiveness We are deeply grateful for the devoted during the transition year is evidenced services of all three.
They have been by the continued tight grip on corruption, replaced with three new Independent further improvements in the business Non-Executive Directors Bozidar Djelic, environment and stepping up the overdue Tamaz Georgadze and Kim Bradley.
reform of the judicial system.
With the Please refer to the Governance section elections and the uncertainties associated of this Annual Report or our website to read with them left behind, the return of about the array of experience and skills Government investment into the economy these three individuals bring to our team.
and increase in business and consumer confidence has led to recovery of economic I would like to thank my fellow Board growth with 7.1% real GDP growth in the members for their support and commitment fourth quarter of 2013 and 6.7% average and congratulate the management team for growth rate in the first two months of 2014. the strong performance in 2013 and I look forward to new achievements in 2014.
Georgia has come a very long way since 2003, and 2013, with its remarkable breakthrough in the political sphere has set the stage for Georgias further development, building upon the achievements and strengths of the previous years to ensure its economic progress and the continuing Neil Janin Chairman 10 April 2014 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 5 2003 11.1 2004 5.9 9.6 2005 2006 9.4 2007 12.3 2008 2.3 -3.8 2009 2010 6.3 2011 7.2 2012 6.2 2013 3.2
