The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 3 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Net asset value increase of 23.8% Share price increase of 33.9% 47th consecutive year of dividend increases Richard Killingbeck Performance dividends.
Accordingly, the current level of revenue As our 125th year draws to an end it is pleasing to be reserve is not expected to grow significantly from the able to report one of the strongest sets of results in 2013 year end levels.
We feel confident in being able Bankers recent history.
A net asset value increase of to forecast a dividend per share of not less than 14.7p 23.8% was the key catalyst for the significant reduction per share, an increase of 4%.
in the discount to which the shares traded at during the Governance and Board Changes year, resulting in a share price return of 33.9%.
The twin I would like to take this opportunity to thank my objectives of long term capital appreciation and dividend predecessor Richard Brewster who joined the Board in growth have resulted in Bankers cementing its position 1994 and became Chairman in 2005.
I thank him for all as a core holding in many private client portfolios and of his hard work and wise counsel to me and the Board has created the demand to allow us to issue shares, the of Bankers during his long association with the first time since 1994.
In the last year 350,000 shares Company.
Over the years we have aimed to achieve a were issued at a premium to net asset value, and since level of continuity in regard to the Board and thus we the year end we have issued a further 400,000 shares.
believe the efficient management and oversight of your This performance was achieved against a positive global Company will continue in the same vein as it has under equity market background with strong returns being Richards tenure.
reported by all major markets.
Further detail as to In this regard I am pleased to report that David Wild geographic returns and market reports can be found in will be joining the Board on 26 February 2014.
David the Portfolio Managers Review.
has a commercial background, having served in a number of senior positions in the retail sector.
He is Revenue and Dividends currently the non-executive Chairman of Premier Foods The underlying portfolio has continued to generate PLC.
Further detail on Davids biography can be found revenue growth which has enabled the Company to on page 22.
A resolution, seeking shareholder approval continue its 46 year record of increasing dividend for his appointment will be proposed at the payments to shareholders whilst also adding modestly forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It is one of the key objectives of the Company to increase dividends in excess of the Retail David will bring the Board up to five non-executive Prices Index.
This has been achieved consistently.
directors following the resignation of Peter Sullivan in A significant revenue reserve is one of the key June 2013.
The Board would also like to formally thank strengths of Bankers.
The reserve allows the Board and Peter for his contribution to the Company during his shareholders to have confidence in our dividend tenure and wish him well for the future.
Much of the work of the Board is spent reviewing and We are recommending a final dividend of 3.6p per agreeing the implementation of, and decisions required share, making a total of 14.13p for the year, an resulting from, the flow of regulatory and corporate increase of 6% and marking the 47th consecutive year governance change.
Whilst not a glamorous part of the of dividend increases.
As we look forward, the Board role, your Board takes these matters seriously and has would expect to be paying out the great majority of this past year been presented with significant the revenue generated each year in the form of challenges as a result of the Alternative Investment 4 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement continued Fund Managers Directive AIFMD from the European views and how these are being reflected in the Union.
As a result the Board has agreed, in principle, to composition of the Companys portfolio.
Following the appoint its Manager as its Alternative Investment Fund formal business of the meeting light refreshments will Manager AIFM.
Further change will be required in be served.
regard to our Custodian and Depositary relationships.
Outlook I must confess that I am not sure whether investors will Following such a strong year for global equity markets be any better protected as a result of these changes but in 2013 it is probably sensible to be cautious for the deadline for compliance is 22 July 2014, a date prospects for the year ahead.
However, a low and which we will meet.
These changes will not result in a stable interest rate environment, growing investor material increase in the Companys ongoing charges.
confidence and a better corporate outlook, especially in Audit Tender North America and the United Kingdom, give grounds In light of recent UK and emerging European to remain optimistic regarding equity returns.
Whilst regulations on audit tendering and rotation, the Board many headwinds remain, Continental European growth has agreed that 2014 is a suitable time to put the being a key one, investor sentiment has turned positive audit out for tender.
The Company will report on and, with large global institutions repositioning their the outcome of the process to shareholders later in asset allocation back towards equities for the first time the year.
Due to impending European legislation on in over five years, support for current market levels mandatory audit firm rotation and length of tenure of remains strong.
our current auditors,  LLP will It is against this broadly positive backdrop that your not be participating in the audit tender.
Subject to Board approaches the new year with confidence for shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, both equity markets and corporate dividend growth.
 LLP will continue as the The investment approach of the Company has evolved Companys auditors until another audit firm is over many years and I anticipate that it will continue to appointed.
deliver the consistency of returns experienced in the past regardless of the broader market challenges which Management Fee changes will lie ahead.
As my predecessor indicated in his statement last year, the performance fee was dropped with effect from 1 January 2013, and the management fee was changed to 0.4% per annum of net assets and then, following a satisfactory review with the Manager, was Richard Killingbeck, increased to 0.45% of net assets with effect from Chairman 1 November 2013.
17 January 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM The Annual General Meeting will this year be held at 12 noon at Trinity House, London, EC3N 4DH on 26 February 2014.
Full details of the business to be conducted at the meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting which has been sent to shareholders with this report.
Directions and a map showing the location of the AGM can also be found in the Notice of Meeting.
The Board and I look forward to seeing many of you at this meeting at which Alex Crooke and his investment team will be making a presentation on their investment
