Chairmans statement The benefits of Beazleys diversified portfolio can be seen in the relative stability of our combined ratio through widely varying claims scenarios.
I am pleased to report that your company delivered an excellent performance in 2013, achieving a return on average shareholders equity of 21% 2012: 19%.
This performance was underpinned by a combined ratio of 84% 2012: 91%.
A low incidence of catastrophe losses contributed to this, but strong underwriting results were not confined to catastrophe-exposed lines of business.
Earnings per share rose to 52.4c and net tangible assets per share rose 14% to 248.3c.
Beazleys share price during the year reflected the strong performance of the business, climbing 52%.
The board is pleased to announce a second interim dividend of 5.9p per ordinary share plus a special dividend of 16.1p per ordinary share.
Together with the first interim dividend of 2.9p this takes the total dividends declared in 2013 to 24.9p per ordinary share 2012: first interim dividend of 2.7p, second interim dividend of 5.6p plus a special dividend of 8.4p, Dennis Holt totalling 16.7p.
Chairman It has been said that running a successful insurance business is easy to describe but hard to execute.
Beazleys vision is to become, and be recognised as, the highest performing specialist insurer.
In making progress towards this goal we are frequently evaluating and reappraising our business mix, while ensuring that the overall level of risk grows proportionately with the companys capital base.
The strong performance of our marine division in 2013, described by Clive Washbourn on page 24, is illustrative of our approach.
Premium rates for war risks, including piracy, have declined sharply as attacks in vulnerable sea lanes, particularly off the Horn of Africa, have diminished.
But we have simultaneously been able to increase our marine liabilities book substantially on the back of rate rises triggered in part by the Costa Concordia loss, the largest in marine history.
With a well diversified book of business, which now also includes aviation risks as well as marine and energy risks, the team is able to make the adjustments needed to maintain profitability.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Innovation is a key element of our strategy.
As existing lines of business mature and new competitors crowd in, a specialist insurer such as Beazley must constantly look for new ways to enhance the value it offers to brokers and clients.
This approach, replicated across the company, supports Dividend policy and capital management efficient capital management.
The benefits of our diversified The board strategy is to grow the dividend by between 5% and portfolio can be seen in the relative stability of the companys 10% per year and this has always been achieved.
In addition, combined ratio through widely varying claims scenarios.
Over our capital management strategy is to carry some surplus the past five years, Beazley has achieved a group combined capital to enable us to take advantage of growth opportunities ratio averaging 90%, including an underwriting profit in 2011, that may arise: this is further supported by our fully undrawn one of the worst years in history for insured natural banking facility.
Given our growth plans and profitability, we catastrophes.
are targeting a surplus capital buffer in the range of 10-20%.
To the extent that we have surplus capital substantially outside Innovation is also a key element of our strategy.
As existing of this range, the board will consider means to return this lines of business mature and new competitors crowd in, capital to shareholders, as evidenced by the fact that we have a specialist insurer such as Beazley must constantly look for paid special dividends in four of the last seven years.
new ways to enhance the value it offers to brokers and clients.
This sometimes takes the form of new products Beazley has Outlook been a pioneer in offering clients expert services in response Achieving profitable growth is not easy in the current insurance to a claim, where such services are more relevant and valuable market and as we signalled at half year we see a number of than a financial indemnity.
But innovation also occurs daily in markets in which we operate becoming more competitive.
the interactions between underwriters and brokers to cover the more challenging risks.
That said, we do see profitable opportunities for moderate premium growth within our existing risk appetite in the course To innovate in this way requires a high level of underwriting of 2014.
In the boards view, Beazley remains on track towards expertise and experience, which Beazley unquestionably the achievement of its vision.
In my two years to date as chairman of the company I have been delighted to see the companys continuing success as a magnet for talent in our industry.
This applies not only Dennis Holt to underwriting but also to the other disciplines, including Chairman high quality claims service, in which brokers and clients expect us to excel.
5 February 2014 Beazley is fortunate to possess not only a seasoned senior management team, but considerable bench strength across its operations.
The rewards of the companys leadership are aligned to the long term performance of the company through a long term incentive plan with demanding performance targets tied to the growth of net asset value per share.
