CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 1 Chairmans Statement The recovery in global economic growth gained significant traction Euro shares Share Price vs Net Asset Value in 2013, led by the continuing strong performance of the US economy.
But the path of recovery was not smooth and the 24 pattern varied from region to region.
In the first half of the year, the focus of markets was predominantly on Japan, as vigorous steps 22 by the Japanese authorities to reflate their economy propelled a strong rise in Japanese equities and a sharp fall in the yen.
From 20 around mid-year, the focus shifted more to the US, as markets reacted with some turmoil to the prospect of the US Federal 18 Reserve tapering its monetary easing operations and to the temporary US government shut-down.
Elsewhere, there was 16 uncertainty over the degree of slowdown in the Chinese economy, continuing underlying financial strains in the Eurozone and 14 headwinds affecting some emerging market economies.
Share Price 12 Net Asset Value Against this background, BH Macro Limited the Company recorded a gain in net asset value NAV over the year of 3.09% 10 on its sterling shares.
This relatively modest overall advance reflected a year of two parts.
In the first months of the year, through to the end of April, a significant gain in NAV of 7.44% was achieved by timely positioning to capitalise on the sharp market Sterling shares Share Price vs Net Asset Value adjustment in Japan higher equities, weaker yen.
In the remainder of the year, some of these gains were reversed and thematic 2600 positions taken in anticipation of a possible easing in Eurozone 2400 interest rates proved to be premature.
But gains were also made through the year on the back of the general strength of the US 2200 dollar against the currencies of more slowly-growing economies.
2000 US Dollar shares Share Price vs Net Asset Value 1800 24 1600 22 1400 Share Price 20 Net Asset Value 1200 1000 18 16 global basis.
The report by the Companys manager, Brevan Howard 14 Capital Management LP the Manager, later in this Annual Report Share Price explains in more detail the main thematic trades pursued during the 12 Net Asset Value year.
Central to the Managers trading strategy is the ability to seek to capitalise on strategic opportunities when prospective themes 10 are identified, but also to limit the downside when markets reverse.
The Managers operations exhibited both of these strengths in 2013.
Importantly, the Managers report sets out the prospects for these themes to continue to offer positive returns in the year ahead, and Source: Brevan Howard, as at 1 February 2014.
Based on published NAV for better trading opportunities to emerge as interest rates in the US data, which may be estimated.
return to a more normal structure.
In line with its stated purpose, the Company invests all of its assets On a longer perspective, the Company has continued to achieve net of minimal working capital in the Brevan Howard Master Fund positive returns with low volatility.
Over the seven years since its Limited the Master Fund.
The Master Funds stated objective has launch in 2007, the Company has more than doubled its NAV been, and remains, to seek to generate consistent long-term capital a gain of 108% on the sterling shares and has achieved an appreciation through active leveraged trading and investment on a Share Price and Net Asset Value US$ Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Dec-13 Share Price and Net Asset Value pence Share Price and Net Asset Value Euro Mar-07 Mar-07 Sep-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Mar-08 Sep-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Mar-09 Sep-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Mar-10 Sep-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Mar-11 Sep-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Mar-12 Sep-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Mar-13 Sep-13 Sep-13 Dec-13 Dec-13 2 BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement continued annualised rate of return of 11.14% with an annualised Sharpe London in April 2013, which attracted a full attendance and ratio of 1.73.
The Company thus continues to be successful in positive feedback: consideration is being given to repeating the preserving Shareholders capital and achieving a positive return, event in 2014.
Uptodate performance information is provided uncorrelated with other markets and with low volatility.
through NAV data published monthly on a definitive basis and weekly on an estimated basis, as well as through monthly risk The Companys assets remain substantial, with NAV totalling reports and shareholder reports.
All of these reports and further $2.2 billion at the end of 2013, making it the largest singlemanager information about the Company are available on its website hedge fund listed on the London Stock Exchange.
whole, the Companys sterling share price appreciated by 3.00%, moving in the process from a modest premium to NAV to a small The Directors are very closely focused on safeguarding the discount.
With the discount remaining small, no market purchases interests of Shareholders and believe that the Company observes were undertaken and no partial return of capital is to be offered high standards of corporate governance.
The Board, which in relation to the NAV gain in 2013.
But the ability to take such is independent of the Brevan Howard group, holds quarterly actions, at the Boards discretion, remains available for future years: scheduled meetings and meets ad hoc on other occasions and authority for market purchases was renewed at the Companys as necessary.
The work of the Board is assisted by the Audit AGM in June 2013.
The Board remains alert to the need to be Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
The ready to undertake discount or premium management actions Board continues to meet all of the provisions of the Association of where necessary so that as far as possible the Companys share Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance that are prices properly reflect the Companys underlying performance.
relevant to a company that has no executive management: the Accordingly, market purchases of the Companys shares were details are described below in the Directors Report.
The Board undertaken in the early months of 2014 as the discount widened to also remains committed to implementing the recommendations of around 5%: details are given in Note 11. the Davies Report on women on boards.
The listing of the Companys shares on the Main Market of Stephen Stonberg has indicated his intention to retire from the the London Stock Exchange continues to provide an active Board with effect from 31 March 2014.
The Board has greatly secondary market for Shareholders to trade shares.
All three appreciated his lead role in establishing the Company and the classes have also maintained their place in the FTSE 250 and experience and support he has contributed to its subsequent the Company has maintained its listings in Dubai and Bermuda.
In his place, the Board intends to appoint David Having reviewed the Financial Conduct Authoritys new restrictions Barton, Head of Legal at the Companys Manager, as a Director.
on the retail distribution of nonmainstream pooled investments, The Board believes that, since the Companys purpose is to the Company after taking legal advice announced on 15 January invest solely in the Brevan Howard Master Fund, there is positive 2014 that it considered that it is outside the scope of those advantage to Shareholders in maintaining a direct link to Brevan restrictions, so that its shares can continue to be recommended Howard in this one seat on the Board.
by UK authorised persons to ordinary retail investors.
The more sustainable recovery in the global economy that now The Board maintains regular dialogue with the Companys Manager, looks in prospect should mean that markets should more generally to review the Master Funds trading strategies and risk exposures be driven by macroeconomic factors than political interventions: and to satisfy itself that the Managers analytical, trading and risk and as interest rates initially in the US and ultimately elsewhere management capabilities are being maintained to a high standard.
revert to a more normal structure, there should be greater scope for The Board holds extended discussions with the Manager at each of twoway movements in price and shifts in curve shape.
Both of these its quarterly Board meetings, supplemented by additional contacts developments would offer opportunities from which the Master Fund with the Manager at intervals during the year.
One Board meeting is wellequipped to benefit.
In such environment, the Board believes a year is held in Brevan Howards head office in Jersey in order to that the Master Fund has the capability to continue to deliver positive maintain firsthand contact with the Managers team there.
Briefings performance over time and that the Companys investment in the were also held with Brevan Howards trading team in Geneva in Master Fund offers good prospects for Shareholders to achieve October 2013: and in December 2013 the Board held its quarterly sustainable returns while preserving capital.
Board meeting in New York in order to be able to review Brevan Howards increasingly important US operations.
From all these contacts, the Board continues to believe that the Master Funds performance remains of a very high standard.
The Company and its Manager have continued to pursue an active programme for public communication and investor Ian Plenderleith relations.
Regular communication is maintained with Shareholders Chairman and presentations are made to keep analysts, financial journalists and the wider investment community informed of the Companys 27 March 2014 progress.
An extensive presentation for investors was held in
