Overview Chairmans statement OVERVIEW THE BOARD Despite a generally improving economic environment, mining We were pleased to welcome Ian Cockerill to the Board with shares suffered poor returns in 2013.
Fears of a worse than effect from 14 November 2013.
Mr Cockerill has nearly expected slowdown in China, which has been the main motor 40years experience in the mining industry, having previously for demand growth in the last decade, led to price falls in most been responsible for business development in AngloGold, and commodities.
In addition, the breakdown in trust between chief executive of cer of both Gold Fields Ltd and AngloCoal, mining companies and investors on the back of poor returns between 1999 and 2009. on investment and excessive capital spending, further deratedmining company share prices.
Accordingly, despite Oliver Baring, who has served on the Board since November anotherwise strong recovery in broader equity markets 2004, will retire as a Director at the forthcoming Annual generally, themining sector has struggled.
I would like to thank Oliver on behalf of the Board for his wise counsel over this period and wish him every Against this backdrop, the Companys net asset value NAV success for the future.
per share returned -24.6% and the Companys share price returned -17.5% over the twelve months to 31 December 2013.
ROYALTY INVESTMENTS The Companys benchmark index, the Euromoney Global In July, shareholders approved changes to the investment Mining Index formerly the HSBC Global Mining Index policy clarifying that the Company may, as part of its existing returned-24.1% in the same period all percentages authority to invest in unquoted investments, invest in royalties calculated in sterling terms with income reinvested.
which arise from the production of metals and minerals.
Thelimit on unquoted investments was also raised from 10% Since the year end, the Companys NAV has returned 4.7% to 20% of gross assets to allow greater exposure to metal compared with a return of 5.1% in the benchmark index.
REVENUE RETURN AND DIVIDEND It was announced in October that the Company had reached The Companys revenue return per share for the year to anon-binding agreement on key commercial terms for a 31 December 2013 amounted to 22.36p compared with US$12 million smelter return royalty investment with Avanco 21.78pfor the previous year.
The Company and Avanco are currently working on heads of terms.
Whilst this would represent a The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of relatively small commitment for the Company, the Board 14.00p per share for the year ended 31 December 2013 believes that the investment will offer an attractive addition 2012: 14.00p, which together with the interim dividend of tothe royalty portfolio and also diversify the Companys 7.00p per share 2012: 7.00p, makes a total dividend of 21.00p existing royalty holdings by type of asset.
The dividend will be paid on 15May 2014 to shareholders on the register of members on 7March ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS 2014.
DIRECTIVE The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the Since the launch of the Company in 1993 and following the Directive is a European Directive which seeks to reduce payment of the forthcoming final dividend, total dividends systemic risk by regulating alternative investment fund paid will be greater than the initial public offering price paid managers AIFMs.
AIFMs are responsible for managing on the Companys ordinary shares.
investment products that fall within the category of Alternative Investment Funds AIFs and investment trusts are included DISCOUNT in this.
The Directive was implemented on 22 July 2013, Your Board recognises that it is in the long term interests of although the Financial Conduct Authority will permit a shareholders that the discount to NAV at which the shares transitional period of one year after that during which UK trade should be minimised as far as possible and will continue AIFMs must seek authorisation.
The Board has taken, and will to focus on attempting to narrow this margin.
The Companys continue to take, independent advice on the consequences discount has narrowed considerably in the last year and forthe Company and has decided in principle that BlackRock averaged 10.2% on a cum income NAV and 8.1% on a capital Fund Managers Limited will be appointed as its AIFM in only NAV.
Currently the shares are trading at a discount of advance of the end of the transitional period on 22 July 2014.
0.8% on a cum income basis and a premium of 2.5% on a capital only basis.
[4] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC NEW REPORTING REQUIREMENTS There have been a number of revisions to reporting requirements for companies with accounting periods ending on, or after, 30 September 2013.
These changes are intended to increase the quality and structure of reporting and include the introduction of a new Strategic Report which is intended to replace the Business Review section of the Directors Report, providing insight into the Companys objectives, strategy andprincipal risks.
The Strategic Report should also enable shareholders to assess how effective Directors have been in promoting the success of the Company during the course of the year under review.
Other changes comprise additional Audit Committee reporting requirements on the external auditprocess, as set out on pages 36 to 38, and changes to the structure and voting requirements in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report which are explained in more detail on pages 27 to 29.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the of ces of BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited at 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2N 2DL on Thursday, 8 May 2014 at 11.30 a. m. Details of the business of meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 71 to 74 of this Annual Report.
The Portfolio Managers will make a presentation to shareholders on the Companys performance and the outlook for the year ahead.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholders will be asked to approve new Articles of Association in substitution for the current Articles.
The Board is proposing to make these amendments to the Articles in response to the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive: details of the principal changes are given on pages 25 and 26 of the Directors Report.
OUTLOOK The mining industry has faced many challenges since the start of the decade.
However, much progress has now been made intrimming back the unwelcome increase in operating costs taken on in the boom years.
In addition, much of the previously planned expansion in capacity has now also been reassessed resulting in cut backs in the light of the harsher operating environment and a need to reset the balance between reinvestment and shareholder returns.
It is hoped that the consequence of these actions will result in a marked increase in free cash ow for the companies allowing them to better reward shareholders with increased returns.
A W LEA Chairman 20 February 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [5]
