Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder, The UK Corporate Governance Code also requires that the boards of listed businesses should have at least an equal 2013 has been a year of significant change for Brewin number of independent Non-Executive Directors excluding Dolphin.
This has encompassed a comprehensive review the Chairman.
of every aspect of the way in which the Group operates and has resulted in a series of actions which have materially There are four Non-Executive Directors on the Board, strengthened its position as one of the UKs leading excluding me.
Jock Worsley retires from the Board at the independent wealth managers with in excess of 100,000 AGM in February 2014 after 10 years of service.
He has clients and 28 billion under management.
been Chairman of the Audit Committee and was appointed Senior Independent Director at the end of March 2013.
Board changes His wise counsel will be greatly missed.
Ian Dewar, who Jamie Matheson, my predecessor, retired at the end of was appointed to the Board on the 15 November 2013, March and I would once more like to pay tribute to his long will succeed Jock as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Henry Algeo, Ben Speke, Barry Angela Knight will become Senior Independent Director.
Howard and Sarah Soar stood down at the same time.
We will seek to recruit one more Non-Executive Director David McCorkell retired in October 2012 and Robin Bayford during the current year.
Brewin Dolphin will then be fully in December 2012.
In October 2013 Angela Wright retired compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
as Company Secretary and continues to work for Brewin Dolphin as Group Chief Accountant.
I should like to record Biographies of each director are contained on 1 the Boards appreciation of their substantial contribution to pages32and33.
the Group over many years.
Running the business Following these changes the Board has been reshaped and The Boards of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC and Brewin this process continues.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Dolphin Limited, the principal operating company, are now Governance Code, the roles of Chairman and CEO have identical, although their respective roles are slightly different.
I was appointed Non-Executive Chairman, The smaller board format serves the business effectively David Nicol became Chief Executive, Stephen Ford was and allows for more focused discussion.
appointed Head of Investment Management and together with Andrew Westenberger, the new Finance Director, The business is run on a day to day basis by the Chief and Michael Williams, they are the four key executives in Executive supported by an Executive Committee.
These appointments have been accompanied by are four Board committees, Audit, Risk, Remuneration and other management changes designed to create greater Nomination.
Each of these is chaired by an Independent accountability and clearer lines of responsibility.
1 Biography of Ian Dewar will be included in the notice of AGM.
04 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review Our focus remains unchanged.
It is to promote continued strong growth and increased efficiency, thereby ensuring improved returns to shareholders.
These are the pillars upon which decisions will be made.
Focus The plan has been structured to take into account best Our focus remains unchanged.
It is to promote continued practice guidelines from institutional shareholders and strong growth and increased efficiency, thereby ensuring shareholder representative bodies.
Dividend The Board is proposing a final dividend of 5.05p per share, The UK wealth management sector has been the focus to be paid on 28 March 2014 to shareholders on the register of much attention over the past year.
The impact of the on 28 February 2014.
This will bring the total dividend for Retail Distribution Review RDR which came into effect in the period to 8.6p per share 2012: 7.15p.
January 2013 has caused the sector to re-examine the way business has been carried out historically and the result will Shareholders undoubtedly be in the long-term interests of both clients Brewin Dolphin has some 1,000 shareholders, representing a and managers.
The change in regulator, from the Financial wide range of institutions and individuals.
Approximately 18% Services Authority into two successor organisations, will of the equity is held by present employees of the business.
likewise result in changes in how the sector operates.
These are designed to make the industry more transparent Shareholders support enabled the company to raise and accountable to its clients and Brewin Dolphin aims to 38.6m in May by way of a placing at a small discount to take a leading role in continuing the development of industry the market price.
Your Board welcomes interaction with best practice.
shareholders and is committed to maintaining an open and regular dialogue.
Enhancing the profitability of the Group remains a key objective of the Board.
An exercise examining costs and This years AGM will be held at 11.30am on 17 February efficiencies was undertaken in the second half of the year 2014 at the Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London and savings were identified and made.
I very much hope you will be able to attend.
Remuneration Simon Miller The Remuneration Committee has recently undertaken 3 December 2013 a review of the current remuneration packages of the Companys Executive Directors.
Following this review, the Committee proposes to rebalance the packages of the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Head of Investment Management towards more emphasis on longer term delivery of the Companys strategic financial objectives.
