04 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement This report covers the period from 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013.
This is the first time that the Chairmans Statement has been written under the newly introduced narrative reporting framework in the UK, which includes a new requirement to provide a Strategic Report with certain prescribed content.
In the case of your Company, much of this prescribed content sets out points which I would naturally make in my Chairmans Statement and so we have incorporated my Chairmans Statement within the Strategic Report.
NAV Returns For the year under review, the net asset value of the Company rose by 13.1% on a total return basis.
This compares with an increase in the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index of 18.9%.
Strone Macpherson This is a disappointing outcome in relative terms, but surpasses the Chairman long term aggregate compound returns in NAV since 1985 of 12%.
The reasons for the under-performance are explained in the Overview of Strategy and the Investment Managers Review but stem principally from the underperformance of two gold stocks and higher liquidity levels following the wise sale in May of a successful investment in Asia.
There was also some widening of the see through discount in the second half of our accounting year.
As I have stated in the past, the value orientated characteristics of the Investment Managers approach mean that year-on-year performance will not relate closely to any broadly based benchmark index.
The Board pays particular attention to long-term performance.
Over ten years the total return of the Company has out-performed its peer group and the market, producing a net asset value total return of 188.0%, compared with a total return of 151.8% for the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index and 148.3% for the MSCI All Country Total Dividends World ex-US Index.
Between the year end and 4 November, the latest date for which 13.0p data is available, the Companys net asset value increased by 5.0% compared with a return of 4.8% by the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index and 4.5% by the MSCI All Country World ex-US 2013 13.0p Index.
At the time of writing, liquidity stands at 10.9%, compared with 14.6% at the year end and a range of 7% to 25% during the year 2012 13.0p under review.
Benchmark There is no benchmark index which closely correlates with the Investment Managers investment style and so the Directors monitor a variety of equity investment benchmarks.
During 2013, the Directors reconsidered which equity index it should regard as its lead benchmark and concluded that this should change from the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index to the MSCI All Country World ex-US index.
This revised benchmark has a full data set, which allows detailed performance attribution analysis.
The Company will continue to provide in its publications the performance of the Morningstar Investment Trust Global 05 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report 02 13 Investment Review 14 23 Governance 24 35 Financial Statements 36 71 Board Growth Index and of the MSCI World Index, alongside that of the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index, so that shareholders can As reported last year, Rosamund Blomfield-Smith decided not to stand for re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
readily monitor performance compared with these other indices.
There have been no other changes to the Board.
Dividend The Board is pleased to recommend an increased final dividend of In line with best practice, all of the Directors are subject to re-election each year.
The Board has completed a further Board evaluation, 8.5p 2012: 7.5p, which, together with the interim dividend of 2.0p 2012: 2.0p, would bring the total Ordinary dividends for this year to this year internally, and has found again the Directors qualifications, effectiveness, performance and contribution to the Board to be of 10.5p, an increase of 10.5% over last year.
In addition, there have been some exceptional dividend receipts, although not as significant a high standard.
There will be an independent review of the Board next year.
We are therefore proposing a special dividend this year of 2.5p, bringing total dividends for the year to 13.0p 2012: 13.0p.
Shareholders will note that we have provided a revised Directors As well as the Key Performance Indicators set out in the Overview Remuneration Report which sets out a Directors Remuneration Policy and which shareholders will be asked to approve at the Companys of Strategy below, a secondary, but nevertheless important, measure of investment return is dividend growth.
Over ten years, forthcoming AGM.
We have also supplied a more detailed explanation of the operation of the Companys Audit Committee in discharging the ordinary dividends paid by the Company have grown by over 6.5 times, compared with growth of circa 2.5 times for members its responsibilities.
of the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index who have paid dividends for ten or more years.
Total dividends paid including Outlook special dividends amount to 74.3 pence per share over that period.
The Board monitors the Investment Managers style and investment process carefully to ensure that there is no drift away from the core The level of income received each year varies according to market objective, which is to achieve capital growth through a focussed conditions and the Companys investment stance but the Directors portfolio of mainly listed investments particularly in companies which believe that by focusing on growth in capital this should naturally lead stand at a discount to the estimated underlying asset value.
The to long term progress in the dividend.
The Directors recognise that Board is confident that there is good unrealised long term value in it is important to give the Investment Manager maximum flexibility in the portfolio.
managing the Companys assets within the confines of the overall strategy and investment style.
In particular, the level of income may The wider investment community, however, remains concerned vary due to the occasional receipt of large, one-off, special dividends about the scope for policy errors from Central bankers and others from investee companies.
For this reason, the Company has paid as the prospect of the tapering and the end of the Quantitative special dividends in the past few years.
There can, of course, be no Easing experiment approaches.
The likelihood also is that the guarantee that further special dividends will be paid in the future.
markets will face periods of greater volatility, as necessary adjustments of value take place when the prospect of an eventual adjustment Management Fees to more normal cost of money looms larger.
The largest component of the Companys costs is the fee paid to the Investment Manager.
Following the annual review of the There has been some sign of further strengthening of economic Companys investment management contract with AVI, it has activity in the developed countries, albeit from a low base, but been agreed that no further performance related fees will be payable there is also concerning evidence of some slowing in the growth and that the annual management fee will be 0.7% of net assets.
rate in some emerging markets, accentuated by the prospect In addition, AVI will, in due course, be appointed the Companys of less accommodative monetary policies in the USA in particular.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager under the EUs Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
The additional costs of Despite this uncertainty, the Board remains confident that the compliance with the Directive will be absorbed by AVI, other than Investment Manager will continue to search for, and find, individual the costs of the depositary.
The new, simplified, fee arrangements securities which meet the AVI criteria and will provide good long took effect from 1 October 2013, the first day of the Companys term returns for shareholders.
Under the previous arrangement AVI was entitled to an annual management fee of 0.6% of the net assets of the Company as at the end of the preceding financial period.
A performance fee of 6% was also payable for any outperformance in the net asset value on a total return basis over the benchmark at the year end, with a cap on aggregate management fees of 1% Strone Macpherson of net assets of the Company per annum.
The Directors believe that Chairman these changes simplify the structure of the management fee, will result 11 November 2013 in lower potential total expenses for the Company when the previous performance fee structure is taken into account and are consistent For more information visit with the trend in the closed-ended funds market, to have greater www.
co. uk transparency in costs.
Discount The level of discount during the year has been between 7.4% and 14.6%.
During the year, the Company has bought back a total of 5.1 million shares, adding some 0.4% to the net asset value per share to the benefit of continuing shareholders.
The Board continues to view share buy backs as a tool to reduce the volatility of the discount and is therefore again seeking to renew its authority to carry out share buybacks from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
