Overview Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 3 Chairman and Chief Executives report Results Our relative performance over the last five years has not We are pleased to report a successful year for the been so good, although this timeframe includes the company, which has delivered strong performance built tumultuous events of the Global Financial Crisis GFC, in on the strategic initiatives implemented over the past the aftermath of which we have undergone a rebalancing three years.
Net asset value NAV per share total return of the investment portfolio and its risk profile.
increased by 19%, driven by gains across our investment Income portfolio and a growing income stream.
The board is Income is a core feature of our long term investment recommending an overall dividend for the year of 47.2p proposition.
During the year, 38m was derived from the per share, an increase of 10% over last year reflecting portfolio, a 13% increase, representing a portfolio yield of greater income generation following the portfolio 3.3%.
It is our intention to maintain this structural level rebalancing.
This has enabled us to increase the dividend of income in the future.
by 34% over the last three years and the current years dividend will represent the forty-sixth consecutive annual Cash increase for shareholders.
By taking advantage of rising markets, we have built up a cash reserve of 96m, which represented 7% of net The year has seen considerable changes, with a reduction assets at the year end, from a position of net debt of 37m in exposure to a single company or sector, an improvement at the beginning of the year.
In the volatile climate we in portfolio liquidity and the inclusion of a greater are currently experiencing, we believe that cash is an proportion of mature income generating assets.
We have important part of asset allocation, as this provides us a 96m cash reserve to take advantage of new investment with both downside protection and the flexibility to react opportunities and to provide downside protection.
In addition, we have recently renewed our sale of subscale investments and the increased emphasis committed five year bank facilities, although we have on income, combined with an increasing move away from reduced the overall facility amount from 100m to 75m reliance on the UK market and economy, has reshaped our in view of our current cash position.
This has been achieved without relinquishing remain undrawn and, together with our surplus cash, Caledonias core values, namely to take the longer view provide substantial resources to deploy opportunistically and to select and support good management teams.
when targeted investments come within our identified Caledonia offers a distinctive proposition for its value range.
We feel that this is the correct way to be shareholders, compared with other investment trusts.
positioned, despite the allure of cheap long term debt We have the Cayzer family as a large shareholder, holding currently on offer.
Some of our portfolio companies have some 48% of the shares, and members of the family fulfil their own debt, which we monitor regularly.
Such debt is key management roles.
We therefore seek to manage generally kept at prudent levels and is substantially lower wealth on a generational time scale.
We also seek to pay than three years ago.
Portfolio This long term view influences the shape of the The top ten investments in total account for 43% of net investment portfolio.
Some 38% of our assets are invested assets.
This year has demonstrated the value of holding in unquoted situations, which require a longer investment long term positions in high quality, established companies, horizon, but which we believe will, when well selected, with the top ten holdings contributing significantly produce a higher overall return than most quoted to performance.
However, the portfolio is now more investments.
In addition, we are able to take a longer term liquid and less concentrated than in recent times, as we view of some of the rapidly growing markets in the world, have sold down some of our larger holdings.
Cobehold, such as Asia, which, despite their greater short term our second largest investment, is itself an investment volatility, will grow faster over time.
company and has a diversified portfolio of 15 predominantly European holdings.
Performance In view of the above, the board has decided to cease using Our investment portfolio provides shareholders with a one-year benchmark to measure progress.
Except by a well-balanced spread of exposures to differing coincidence, Caledonias portfolio will not perform in the geographies.
Of note is the increase in our US exposure, short term close to or in line with the FTSE All-Share index now at 16% compared with 7% three years ago, a trend or any other index.
What is relevant is that over the last we intend to continue.
There will always be a substantial ten years a period which also coincides with our status part of the portfolio invested in the UK, as our home as an investment trust, our NAV total return i. e. capital marketplace dictates that the UK is our main source of plus dividends reinvested has increased by 202%, deal flow, particularly in unlisted companies.
When we outperforming the FTSE All-Share Total Return index, analyse the portfolio by geography of revenue generation, which increased by 175%.
We consider this to be an we estimate that our exposure to sterling is about 45%, appropriate index against which to compare Caledonia 18% to the euro and 15% to the US dollar, with the Asian over the longer term, although we will keep this under currencies making up the bulk of the remainder.
review as our portfolio becomes increasingly international.
4 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Chairman and Chief Executives report continued Investment and divestment activity Quoted 517m, 40% of net assets We invested 142m during the course of the year, We look to invest in companies over the long term with including 29m of new capital in the Income & Growth established business models, strong balance sheets and good pool, as we continued to build its position within the returns on capital and invested equity.
overall portfolio in order to gain further exposure to There were notably strong performances by Bristow global businesses with strong and growing dividends.
Group, AG Barr and Close Brothers, as well as from some It is notable that the Income & Growth pool has itself of the newer investments such as Weir Group, Spirax Sarco outperformed the FTSE All-Share index over the two years and Jardine Matheson.
Bristow has grown significantly since its formation.
We made one significant acquisition in value over the year and is now the largest holding in in the Unquoted pool during the year, a portfolio of five the portfolio.
It is continuing to expand its business US industrial businesses, an investment totalling $42m geographically and recently won the search and rescue 27m.
We made several new commitments to private contract from the UK Government covering the coastline equity funds, in particular to give us diversified exposure of the UK that, after an initial transition period, will to geographies where we are less willing to invest directly.
involve a $2.5bn, ten year contract utilising 22 helicopters We took advantage of the run up in stock markets in the and hundreds of personnel.
Markets finally gave Close second half of the financial year to sell over half of our Brothers the rating it undoubtedly deserves, being one of holding in Close Brothers, the UK based merchant bank.
the very few banks to have come through the GFC with a This has reduced our holding from 13% of net assets last clean bill of health.
It has continued to grow its lending year to a more balanced 7%, in line with our strategic book profitably without taking undue risks, and we took target for individual investment exposure.
We completed advantage of this rise in valuation to sell over 100m of the sale of our stake in Celerant Consulting from the shares during the period and to reduce the size of this Unquoted pool, realising 46m including 11m of accrued investment in relation to the portfolio.
AG Barr, the maker loan interest, an excellent 2.5x return on cost.
In addition, of carbonated drinks such as Irn-Bru, enjoyed another we sold the remainder of our holding in British Empire year of strong underlying growth whilst attempting to Securities for 49m, which has been a good investment consummate a merger with Britvic, which has been for shareholders, returning over nine times the capital referred to the Competition Commission.
London & invested over a 21 year period.
Overall, 310m was Stamford and Metric Properties, both property companies, realised from investment sales during the year.
finalised their merger which leaves the combined company, LondonMetric, well capitalised and with greater Overview of pool performance depth of management.
Quintain Estates enjoyed a welcome We moved during the year to managing the portfolio narrowing of its discount to NAV after attracting an Asian in four pools, integrating the Asia and Property pools joint venture partner to finance the building of its with the remaining four.
This has removed the sector Greenwich Peninsula site.
and geographic overlap and completes the strategic realignment of our investments into pools of capital Unquoted 348m, 27% of net assets clearly defined by investment type.
We look to invest in unlisted businesses requiring capital and an investor with a balance sheet to support a long term Overall, the increase in net assets was driven by a perspective.
We invest in both minority and majority positions.
particularly strong performance from our listed investments in Caledonias traditional Quoted pool and The Unquoted pool achieved a total return of 18%, our more recently established Income & Growth pool, helped by the realisation of our investment in Celerant which both had a total return in excess of 20% over Consulting.
This exit was matched by an investment in the year.
a group of US industrial companies, the Latshaw Group, that is performing ahead of our expectations.
We have Value InvestChange Value Total been actively reviewing other potential acquisitions and 2012 ments Disposals in value 2013 Income return Pool m m m m m m % continue to see a strong flow of potential investments, Quoted 552.1 11.4 151.2 104.9 517.2 16.0 24.6 several of which are proprietorial in nature.
Income & The remainder of the portfolio has solid growth prospects.
Growth 110.6 69.7 40.8 22.5 162.0 5.0 23.7 The pools management team has worked hard during the Portfolio 1,184.0 141.6 309.6 178.1 1,194.1 37.7 19.9 year with the portfolio to increase profitability, which has occasionally required more finely balanced decisions such as leadership change or a move to a realisation strategy.
We anticipate further M&A activity during the current year, which may result in the sale of one or two holdings.
Overview Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 5 Funds 167m, 13% of net assets Rod Kent took over from James Loudon as Chairman after We invest in both private and public equity funds, with an the AGM in July 2012.
James became Chairman in 2008 emphasis on providing exposure to areas of the world where amidst difficult circumstances and steered the company we are less willing to invest directly.
and its subsequently appointed Chief Executive with great wisdom throughout the period of his Chairmanship.
The Funds pool completed the sale of British Empire Mark Davies, who had served as a non-executive director Securities during the year.
Several new commitments were on the board for ten years, stood down in December 2012, made to private equity funds in the US and Asia although, at which time Charles Cayzer also moved to a nonoverall, distributions exceeded drawdowns.
We also hold executive role.
Stuart Bridges, who is the Chief Financial interests in funds that invest in quoted securities, utilising Officer of Hiscox, was appointed as a non-executive specialist knowledge to gain exposure to areas of the director in January 2013.
He will take over as Chairman world where it is more difficult for Caledonia to invest of the Audit Committee from David Thompson, who will directly.
The largest of these is Perlus, a US micro-cap retire from the board at the AGM in July, having served as value investor, which had another strong year.
a non-executive director for ten years.
We thank him and Income & Growth 162m, 12% of net assets Mark Davies for their contributions on a wide range of The portfolio is comprised of shares in 42 international issues over the years.
businesses, which provide a reliable and growing dividend.
On the executive side, the directors are supported by Cash flow returns to shareholders are prioritised in the an impressive team of associate directors, who have invested businesses.
executed the new strategy well and performed cohesively The Income & Growth pools performance in the year as a management team.
We thank them, and all our staff, was excellent, achieving a total return of 24%.
This is a for their efforts and success during the year.
creditable result considering the pools 5% yield target Outlook though, of course, markets are being given impetus from Economic growth in developed markets is proving to be investors hungry for income.
The pool provides Caledonia slower than governments would like, but in response with both a diversity of income and, more importantly, central banks globally are cutting rates to historically low exposure to successful businesses that operate on a global levels to stimulate growth, though with modest success.
We added a net 29m of capital to the portfolio Thus a degree of stability has been created to allow time during the year and anticipate adding to the pool again to deal with structural problems.
Unprecedented printing during the current year as it approaches its target size of money via quantitative easing QE allied with of 15% to 20% of NAV.
competitive currency devaluations is causing equity Share buy-backs markets to rise and bond yields to fall, creating a wealth We continued our share buy-back policy during the year, effect.
Bond market valuations look stretched and equities buying and cancelling 1.1m shares, about 2% of the have now recovered to be fair value, or modestly above issued share capital, at a cost of 18m.
With the discount in some cases.
This leaves little room for disappointment still around 20%, this represented good value for all by companies if economic growth does not pick up as we shareholders and we will once again seek the necessary enter 2014.
Central bank initiatives via QE are driving shareholder approvals at the forthcoming AGM to holders of cash to reinvest in risk assets due to negligible continue with these buy-backs for a further year.
bank interest rates, which leave markets vulnerable to the eventual withdrawal of QE stimulus.
Inflation remains Dividend the key risk that could derail current stimulus efforts, The board is recommending shareholder approval of a though is probably some way off.
Markets are responding final dividend of 34.3p, an increase of 10%, which would positively to policy initiatives at the current time, but result in an equivalent increase in the total dividend for clearly remain vulnerable to the efforts of previously the year from 42.9p to 47.2p per share.
This would be the untested economic tools unless economic growth gains forty-sixth consecutive year of increases in our annual traction in the coming year.
dividend and a rise of 34% over the last three years.
The final dividend will be paid on 8 August 2013.
The actions we have taken over the last three years have ensured that we have a balanced portfolio Board tailored to our shareholders requirements to The non-executive side of the board has seen several deliver long term outperformance in the current changes over the year.
Rod Kent Will Wyatt Chairman Chief Executive
