The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 3 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report another year of positive progress.
City of London produced a net asset value total return of 23.8% for the year ended 30 June 2013.
Whilst this slightly lagged the average for the UK Growth & Income investment trust sector, it was well ahead of the FTSE All-Share Index.
Indeed, over the longer term we have significantly outperformed the wider market in each of the last three, five and ten year periods.
The dividend was increased for the 47th consecutive year, by Philip Remnant 4.1%, and our ongoing charge remains, at 0.44%, the lowest in the sector.
The Markets unsurpassed record of 47 years of unbroken dividend growth Equities proved consistently resilient through the year until a has been achieved by retaining income from good years in this correction in June followed positive returns in each of the revenue reserve and using that reserve to bolster dividends in preceding 11 months.
Overall, the FTSE All-Share Index total difficult years.
return rose 17.9% over the 12 months.
In the UK, base rates The quarterly dividend will next be considered by the Board remained at 0.5% and growth returned to the economy when the third interim is declared in March 2014. underpinned by a strengthening housing market.
Overseas, growth picked up in the US but Europe and emerging Net Asset Value Total Return markets were mixed.
Equity markets have rerated upwards, City of Londons total return was 23.8% which was 2.2 with share prices outpacing growth in companies earnings percentage points behind the size-weighted average total per share and dividends.
return for the AIC UK Growth & Income sector but 5.9 percentage points ahead of the FTSE All-Share Index.
Our Our Investment Approach underweight positions in the oil and mining sectors, allied with Our Portfolio Manager, Job Curtis, has been managing City of our overweight position in industrial engineering, were the London for over 20 years.
He manages the portfolio in a most important sector contributors to outperformance of the conservative way, focusing on companies with cash generative Index.
In addition, gearing contributed 2.1 percentage points businesses able to grow their dividends with attractive yields.
The portfolio is well diversified with some 76% invested in Expenses well known blue chip UK listed companies but it remains biased towards international companies invested in economies There is no performance fee payable for the year.
The ongoing likely to grow faster than the UK.
In times when savers have charge, which is the investment management fee and other difficulty in receiving adequate returns on their investments, non-interest expenses as a percentage of equity shareholders the portfolio aims to provide shareholders with dividends funds, was 0.44%, which is very competitive compared with between 10% and 30% higher than the FTSE All-Share Index.
the OEIC market, with most other investment trusts and with other actively managed funds.
Performance Earnings and Dividends Changes to Management Fee Arrangements Earnings per share rose by 8.7%, to 15.27p, reflecting the On 31 December 2012 the Financial Services Authority now increase in dividends received from companies held in the the Financial Conduct Authority introduced new rules under portfolio.
It was an exceptional year for special dividends which the Retail Distribution Review RDR on adviser charging, with were paid by seven different companies and more than the objective of making advisers remuneration more doubled to a total of 1.7 million.
A fourth interim dividend of transparent by banning commission-based financial advice.
3.63p per share was paid on 30 August 2013 making the The Board believes that these new rules could have a total for the year 14.30p, an increase of 4.1% over the significant impact on the demand for City of London shares as previous year and ahead of the rate of inflation.
it creates a level playing field between investment trusts and the open-ended products which have been traditionally This means that 2.8 million has been added to the revenue reserve to underpin future dividends.
City of Londons favoured by financial advisers and authorised intermediaries.
4 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Chairmans Statement continued In view of this, the Board has reviewed the Companys the new law, we will need to appoint an AIFM and a management fee arrangements with a view to simplifying Depositary by July 2014.
The Board is already well advanced these and making the Company more attractive to a wider in its preparations to meet this deadline.
Accordingly, with effect from 1 July 2013 the performance fee element of the management Annual General Meeting fee arrangements has been removed.
The management fee The Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices of with effect from that date has been 0.365% per annum of Henderson Global Investors, 201 Bishopsgate, London net assets, reducing to 0.35% on the balance of net assets EC2M 3AE on Monday, 28 October 2013 at 3.00pm.
As a result, the Company will continue to All shareholders are most welcome to attend.
As usual, have one of the lowest ongoing charges in the UK Growth Job Curtis, our Portfolio Manager, will be making a and Income sector and is extremely competitive against other presentation.
Outlook Share Issues Economic growth appears to be gathering momentum in the During the year under review, City of Londons shares have UK and most of the major overseas economies but the been in strong demand and have continued to trade underlying situation remains fragile given continuing high consistently at a premium.
19.1 million shares were issued, at levels of government and personal debt.
The degree to which a premium to net asset value, for proceeds of 62.9 million.
growth is self-sustaining or dependent on stimulatory In the past three years, City of London has issued 49.4 million monetary policy is not clear.
In addition, there is concern new shares, increasing its share capital by 23.7%.
about how financial assets will respond when central banks reduce their holdings in government bonds from the current City of Londons gross assets now exceed 1 billion and its unprecedented levels.
In the UK, the Bank of England has market capitalisation stands at just under that figure.
Whilst introduced an element of forward guidance and it looks as size is not important in and of itself, it is only those larger though the base rate will remain at 0.5% for at least the next trusts with a ready, liquid market in their shares which stand twelve months.
to benefit materially from the consequences flowing from RDR to which I referred above.
Our expenses are also spread over a Within this overall economic environment, equity dividend broader capital base, reducing costs to individual shareholders yields remain attractive relative to both short term interest and making our already competitive offering even more so.
rates and medium and long-dated bond yields.
City of London will continue to offer a dividend yield at a premium to the The Boards approach to share issuance and buy-backs is set market and we intend to grow this dividend at least in line out on page 16 of this Report.
with inflation: all the time, invested in good quality companies with strong balance sheets and an attractive combination of Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM Directive yield and dividend growth prospects.
My expectation is that The UK is currently in the process of implementing the AIFM this proposition will continue to serve shareholders well.
Directive, a piece of EU legislation which is targeted principally at the regulation of hedge funds but which also catches within its scope other investment vehicles such as investment trusts.
This will bring no perceptible benefit to City of London and its shareholders but will add a modest layer of regulatory Philip Remnant oversight and additional, unwarranted cost.
