Chairmans statement Good progress t o w ar d s t a r g e t s 2013 represented another significant year for Direct Line Group.
In the first full year of being listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Group achieved the 2013 combined operating 1 ratio COR and cost targets set at the time of the initial public offering IPO in October 2012.
This resulted in a 2 16.0% RoTE from ongoing operations, ahead of its long-term target.
This has been achieved despite competitive market conditions and demonstrates the improved levels of performance the Groups transformation plan is delivering.
Our shareholders have also seen a 15.3% increase in the share price to 249.6 pence per share in the year to 31 December 2013.
In addition, we paid shareholders dividends totalling 16.2 pence per share during 2013.
As at the date of this report 25 February 2014 the share price is 261.0 pence.
Strategy update Mike Biggs, Chairman During 2013, the Group has continued to focus on delivering the strategic plan established in 2010 to transform Direct Line Group into Britains best retail general insurer.
We have The Board is encouraged by the progress made good progress in 2013 across each of our strategic made on the Groups transformation plan priorities and have plans for further transformation in the future.
and endorses managements actions to drive Looking to 2014, we will continue to focus on delivering for efficiency in the current competitive markets.
our customers, in particular by using technology to enhance customer experience.
More details of this and other strategic Over the longer ter m, the Board believes that priorities can be found in the Chief Executive Officers review.
a continued focus on our strategic priorities 2 We continue to target a RoTE from ongoing operations should generate sustainable value.
In addition, we have set specific targets for 2014, 3 being a total cost base of approximately 1,000 million and a COR in Commercial of less than 100%.
Overall, we currently expect a COR for the Group of between 95% and 97% in 2014.
These assume a normal level of claims from weather events and large losses.
Dividend and capital management Through our progressive dividend policy, we aim to increase the dividend annually in real terms.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.4 pence per share to shareholders.
If approved, the full year regular dividend of 12.6 pence per share would represent a 5.0% growth on the pro forma 4 full year dividend of 2012 12.0 pence per share and is in line with this policy.
14 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report For information on our corporate governance see p. 50 For information on our risk management see p. 22 In addition, we paid a special interim dividend of 4.0 pence Board changes and effectiveness per share in December and we are now declaring a second Following RBS Groups reduction in its shareholding in the special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share.
Both these Company to below 50%, and in accordance with the terms of special interim dividends relate to items in 2013 that were not the Relationship Agreement, Mark Catton stepped down from expected at the start of the year.
First, the sale of our closed the Board on 26 April 2013.
On 1 October 2013, Bruce Van life insurance operation, Direct Line Life Insurance Company Saun stepped down from the Board to focus on other projects Limited the Life business, and secondly, better than expected for RBS Group and Mark Catton was reappointed.
May I take profit from the Run-off segment and the sale of Tracker.
Due to this opportunity to thank Bruce for the insights and value he the one-off nature of these items, the Board believes it is brought to the Board during his time as a Director.
I would appropriate in this instance to return this capital to shareholders.
also like to extend this gratitude more generally to all of our Non-Executive Directors for their dedication to the Group.
The Board considers that the Group is currently strongly capitalised with a risk-based capital coverage ratio at the The Board and its Committees undertook formal evaluations upper end of its risk-based capital coverage target range and of their performance in 2013.
The Company engaged the an A rating with stable outlook from its credit rating agencies.
services of an external facilitator, who met with me as Chairman to agree the structure, scope and content of the In determining this position, the Board has considered a evaluations.
The individual Directors were subject to a review number of factors that may positively and negatively affect of their effectiveness and I have met with each Director to the Groups capital position over the next 12 months.
The provide feedback on a one-to-one basis.
Committee Chairs Board will continue to review this position as clarity improves also received feedback on the performance of the Committees.
on these factors and the Group makes further progress with its transformation plan.
More details can be found on page 42.
Summary I have been very impressed by the commitment of our Relationship with RBS Group employees whenever our customers need their support.
In a Our ongoing relationship with RBS Group is principally set challenging year, they have remained determined to help our out in two key agreements, the Relationship and Transitional customers get back on their feet after an accident or an event Services Agreements.
The Relationship Agreement sets out that in their lives.
The Group is only as good as its people and Direct Line Group is to carry on its business independently of everyone has contributed to this success, and I would like to RBS Group and entitles RBS Group to nominate a Director for thank employees and senior management for everything that appointment to the Board.
The agreement will terminate once has been achieved in 2013.
RBS Group holds less than 20% of Direct Line Insurance Group plc the Company shares.
Under the Transitional Services Agreement, RBS Group will continue to provide IT and certain other services to Direct Line Group for a transitional period of up to 36 months following the IPO in October 2012.
Subsequent to the IPO, RBS Group undertook two further Michael N Biggs, Chairman placings in 2013 of 551.6 million Ordinary Shares in the Company.
These represented 36.8% of the total share capital and generated additional gross proceeds of 1,135.8 million for RBS Group.
Following the placings, RBS Groups shareholding in the Company was 28.5%.
See note 5 on page 3 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15
