Chairmans Statement Background Central Bank policy measures continued to drive global stockmarkets during the year under review as economies worldwide began a fragile recovery from the recent financial crisis.
Asia was no exception, posting gains despite resurgent concerns over decelerating growth across the region, tenuous recovery in the US and the ongoing European debt crisis.
Towards the period-end, uncertainty over when the Federal Allan McKenzie Reserve might scale back its quantitative easing QE Chairman programme buffeted markets but after the review period concluded, stocks rallied following the Feds September Highlights decision to postpone trimming its asset purchases.
Your Net Asset Value Total Return 6.7% compared to a Companys net asset value rose 6.7% on a total return basis benchmark return of 10.1% compared to the benchmark MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Indexs Net Asset Value Total Return over 3 and 5 years has gain of 10.1%.
The share price rose by 7.3% to 254.7p.
outperformed the benchmark index by 6.2% and 25.8% respectively Overview External factors played their part in influencing the direction of Asian stockmarkets.
Ultra-low interest rates and continued Central Bank support in Europe and the US ensured investor sentiment remained positive, with additional impetus provided by signs that suggested the US economy was improving and Europes debt problems were under control.
President Obamas re-election in November and the eleventh-hour deal to avert automatic tax increases and spending cuts also lifted sentiment, as did a smooth albeit highly orchestrated leadership transition in China.
However, confidence wavered in the latter half of the year as new risks emerged in Europe and slowing growth became more apparent in Asia.
The tipping point was the Federal Reserves suggestion in May that it might reduce its QE programme sooner than expected.
This precipitated a global sell-off that hurt emerging market assets disproportionately.
Most Asian stockmarkets retained their gains achieved in the first half in local currency terms.
However, sterling returns were severely reduced by weakened currencies, most notably in India and Indonesia, despite more resilient stock prices.
On the economic front, once fast-expanding countries, such as China, India and Indonesia, slowed substantially although this has to be seen in the context of exceptional growth in previous years.
Along with loss of momentum was mounting policy dilemma.
In China, excessively high levels of investment had led to capital misallocation and the unsustainable rise in debt, fuelled by the shadow banking sector.
While recognising the need to control money supply to maintain macroeconomic health and curb asset bubbles, Beijing has had to maintain stimulus to keep GDP from falling below the official target of 7%.
Recent data appeared to point to a stabilisation.
The local stockmarket responded positively in turn despite growing concerns about asset quality in the banking sector.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 5 Chairmans Statement continued As for India, it continued to face high fiscal and current shares on 31 January and 31 July each year up to January account deficits as well as elevated inflation.
Growth fell to a 2018 at a fixed price of 310.1528p nominal of CULS for one decade low.
The rupee did not help by testing new lows as Ordinary share.
investors fled to safer havens.
The central bank cut interest rates thrice during the review period but did an about-turn at Discount the time of writing, tightening policy amid nagging price The discount at which the Companys shares trade relative to pressures.
India has struggled to speed up infrastructure their net asset value, as at 31 August 2013, was 9.1%.
The investments given red tape and political gridlock, leading to Board monitors closely the discount level of the Companys frequent bottlenecks in the supply chain.
Indonesia also shares and has in place a buyback mechanism whereby the witnessed a widening of its current account shortfall, Manager is authorised to buy back shares within certain weakening of its rupiah and a resurgence in inflation on the limits.
There were no buy-backs of shares during the back of power tariff hikes and cuts in fuel subsidies, which financial year and there have been no buy-backs subsequent compelled the central bank to hike rates despite anaemic to the year end.
As at 31 October 2013 the Companys growth.
shares were trading at a discount of 9.3%.
Elsewhere, quarterly GDP data improved in the exportShareholder authority is being sought to purchase the focused economies of Hong Kong, Singapore, Korea and Companys shares to provide the Company with the Taiwan following a period of muted activity.
Headwinds flexibility to hold any shares that have been repurchased in persisted, nevertheless.
Hong Kong and Singapore continued treasury before either cancelling those shares or selling them to introduce new property-cooling measures.
Korea faced back to the market at a later date.
Repurchased shares increasing challenges relating to the weaker Japanese yen, would only be resold at a price above the NAV at the which tends to erode the competitiveness of some of its relevant date.
The share buyback authority would only be exports.
Meanwhile, the Philippine market, often relegated to exercised if to do so would increase the net asset value per the sidelines by investors, grew in favour as the economy Ordinary share for the remaining shareholders and would be expanded robustly, aided by record government spending.
in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Prudent fiscal management also helped the country attain its first investment-grade scores during the year.
Revenue Account and Dividend The revenue return per share was 3.4p, compared to 3.3p in As noted above, the gains in your Companys net asset value the previous year.
It remains the Boards policy to pay a final trailed the rise in the benchmark, primarily a result of the dividend marginally in excess of the minimum required to long-held underweights to China and Taiwan as well as maintain investment trust status, which may, of course, lead overweights to Singapore and India.
These allocations reflect to some volatility in the level of dividend paid.
The Board where your Manager is able to find good quality companies recommends the payment of a final dividend of 2.2p per with solid finances, proven management, sustainable Ordinary share 2012 2.2p which, if approved by business models and strong market positions.
This stockshareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on picking approach has served the Company well in the longer 20 December 2013. term.
This may lead to short term underperformance against the benchmark in rising markets.
The Manager intends to The Board maintain its exposure to India and ASEAN and the Over the last few years the Board has implemented a underweight to North Asia despite some of the current succession planning strategy which resulted in three new macroeconomic headwinds.
This stems from the confidence Board appointments over the last three years.
David Gairns, in the underlying companies in these markets and their who has been a Director of Edinburgh Dragon Trust for ten ability to sustain growth in spite of these challenges.
years and is currently Senior Independent Director, will step down at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting after Gearing many years of valuable service to the Board.
The Board joins At the year end the Company had in issue 59.8 million me in thanking David for his enormous contribution to the nominal of 3.5% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock 2018 Company, particularly in his role as Audit Committee CULS, representing net gearing of 9.6%.
The CULS provides Chairman, and wishes him all the very best for the future.
the company with long-term structural gearing at an Iain McLaren took over the chairmanship in July of this year acceptable cost and is in line with the Managers long-term and Peter Maynard was appointed to the Audit Committee.
The CULS provides holders with an Tony Lowrie will assume the role of Senior Independent attractive yield of 3.5% per annum, as well as capital Director in December.
protection with the liability comfortably covered by the gross assets of the Company of 607 million.
Holders of CULS may convert part, or all, of their holdings into Ordinary 6 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Fed policy direction also remains a concern-somewhat Governance Code, the Board has endorsed corporate tempered by the nomination of the dovish Janet Yellen as governance procedures whereby all Directors will retire from the successor to Ben Bernanke from January 2014.
While a the Board and submit themselves for re-election on an less accommodative stance on buying US Treasuries to annual basis.
The Board recommends that shareholders vote support economic growth arguably has been factored into in favour of the re-election of all Directors at the Annual the price of global assets, the question remains one of timing General Meeting.
and scale, and the impact on Americas nascent economic recovery.
In Europe, Angela Merkels re-election in Germany should ensure policy continuation.
But structural problems Annual General Meeting persist throughout the Continent and high unemployment The Annual General Meeting will be held at Aberdeens could restrain growth.
Edinburgh office on Tuesday 17 December 2013 at 12.00 noon followed by a lunch for shareholders.
This will give Within Asia, elections are looming in India and Indonesia, shareholders the opportunity to meet the Directors and which may lead to stronger economic policies to tackle their Manager after the formal AGM business has concluded and recent challenges.
That said, your Manager has never we welcome all shareholders to attend.
The AGM will invested in India on hopes of improving domestic politics but continue to be rotated between Edinburgh and London in on the breadth of well run businesses with growth potential successive years.
it can find across a wide range of industries, in spite of persistent economic and political troubles.
In China, Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM sentiment has changed with expectations of higher nonDirective performing loans in the banking system but that has yet to Although the legislation for the above Directive came into be reflected in share prices.
Your Manager remains force in July 2013, there is a 12 month transitional period underweight here, finding more comfort with Hong Kong meaning that investment companies will have until July 2014 companies that provide exposure to the mainland but with to complete the process of compliance and authorisation better transparency and corporate governance standards.
The Board continues to review the impact, including changes to the investment management Overall, fundamentals in Asia remain sound with corporate agreement and costs, of the Directive upon the Company but sentiment still upbeat and economies broadly in better shape has agreed, in principle, to appoint a subsidiary of Aberdeen than those in the West, even if there is some slowdown in Asset Management PLC as the Companys AIFM.
Valuations are reasonable and the portfolio make further announcements on this subject in the coming continues to hold some of the best quality companies within months.
Retail Investors For Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc The Company currently conducts its affairs so that the Allan McKenzie Ordinary shares issued by Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be Chairman recommended by Financial Advisers to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to 4 November 2013 non-mainstream investment products and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The Ordinary shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
Outlook At the time of writing global financial markets are reacting positively to an interim agreement on the political impasse in Washington on the budget deficit and the debt ceiling.
The issues have been pushed forward into early 2014 in the hope that an agreement can be reached.
Failure to get agreement will have far reaching implications for global growth and investor sentiment.
