Chairmans Statement Electra has had an active and successful year with both purchases and sales of private equity investments at their highest ever level, an increase in diluted net asset value and a strong share price performance.
Electra Partners has delivered a total return, including favourable currency movements, of 222 million on Electras investment portfolio, an increase of 26% for the year.
Electra Partners deal flow continues to grow with the improving economic outlook and the gradual contraction of competition from other private equity funds.
With a flexible investment strategy, a sound capital base and substantial cash resources, Electra is well positioned for future growth.
Overview Electra has had a successful year to 30 September 2013: purchases and sales of private equity investments were at their highest ever level: diluted net asset value per share has increased by 12%: the share price has increased by 26% and the discount to diluted NAV has reduced to 19%.
Investment activity included the acquisition of five new investments and three realisations, including the sale and subsequent reinvestment in Allflex.
Investment activity continued strongly up to and after the year-end with the acquisition, just before 30 September, of South Lakeland Parks and the concluded sale of Lil-lets Group in November.
Results At 30 September 2013 Electras diluted net asset value was 2,764p per share compared to 2,473p at 30 September 2012, an increase of 12% since 30 September 2012 compared to a FTSE All-Share rise of 19%.
The return per share on a diluted basis amounted to 298p for the year.
Over the ten years to 30 September 2013 Electras diluted net asset value per share including dividends increased by 279%, a ten-year annualised ROE of 14%.
Electras share price also grew strongly in the same period, up by 267%.
Both compare to a rise in the FTSE All-Share of 140%.
In my statement to 31 March 2013 I reported a first time provision in respect of the 2006 investment pool under the carried interest arrangements for members of Electra Partners.
The uplift in diluted net asset value per share of 12% for the year is calculated after reflecting carried interest provisions for the year of 63 million.
Over the year, Electras share price increased by 26% with a strong rise in the first six months followed by a small fall in the second half of the year.
Discounts across the listed private equity sector generally improved over the first six months, but widened in the second half.
In the case of Electras shares, which started the year on a 28% discount, this reduced significantly to 12% at 31 March 2013 but had widened to 19% at the year end.
Investment Activity Over the year, Electra took advantage of its flexible investment strategy and invested a record 337 million.
This compares to 150 million for the year to 30 September 2012.
Many of these investments were in assets in respect of which a bank or banks were controlling the sale process, and where the purchase price was at a discount to the value of the underlying asset.
Realisations in the year totalled 459 million compared to 301 million for the year to 30 September 2012, again a record level.
Net Liquid Resources At 30 September 2013 Electra had 294 million of liquid resources, net of bank borrowings of 158 million.
This increase in liquidity has come thanks to the record level of realisations throughout the year and in spite of the increase in the level of new investment.
In 2011 Electras multi-currency revolving credit facility was refinanced, increasing the size from 185 million to 195 million and extending the loan term from January 2013 to June 2016.
As I previously reported, the maturity profile of Electras capital base was further improved in May 2013 by an 18 month extension of the term, with the result that the facility is now not repayable until December 2017.
4 Board Changes As I reported in my Statement to 31 March 2013, Lucinda Webber retired from the Board with effect from the Annual General Meeting held on 7 March 2013, and Francesca Barnes was appointed a nonexecutive Director of the Company on the same day.
Kate Barker was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and Senior Independent Director.
On 12 September 2013 Josyane Gold was appointed a non-executive Director of the Company.
Josyane has 32 years' experience as a lawyer in corporate practice in the City.
For 25 years Josyane was a partner of SJ Berwin where she was a founder of its private equity and investment funds practices.
Josyane continues to act as a consultant to the firm now King & Wood Mallesons SJ Berwin.
Finally, I have decided to retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 11 March 2014.
I have been a Director of the Company since 2007 and Chairman since 2010.
It has been an honour, and a great pleasure, to have been a member of this Board.
I hope shareholders will feel that the Company has performed well for them during my time as Chairman.
I should like to thank very warmly all my Board colleagues, past and present, for their support.
I should also like to express my thanks to Electra Partners for all they have done to deliver value for our shareholders over many years.
I am pleased to be able to announce that Roger Yates will succeed me as Chairman at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
Roger has extensive experience in the financial services sector and I am confident that I am leaving the Company in safe hands.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD Under the AIFMD Electra becomes an Alternative Investment Fund and is required to appoint a manager who has the necessary regulatory approval to act as Electras Alternative Investment Fund manager AIFM under the new AIFMD requirements.
Electra Partners is taking the necessary steps to obtain a variation in its regulatory status with the Financial Conduct Authority so that it is approved as Electras AIFM by 22 July 2014.
No changes of significance are envisaged in the management arrangements for Electra as a result of AIFMD.
Outlook In my statement a year ago I indicated that Electras deal flow was likely to increase as a result of a greater number of distressed sales, the need to refinance debt and the requirement for companies as well as banks to dispose of non-core assets and simplify their businesses.
The last year has seen a considerable increase in new investments completed by Electra and Electra Partners deal flow continues to grow with the improving economic outlook and the gradual contraction of competition from other private equity funds.
The high level of recent realisations has reduced the maturity of the investment portfolio.
Despite this Electra Partners expects to continue to add value growth in the short term through its strategy of purchasing at discounted values as well as in the longer term through investing in growth.
As a result of a flexible investment strategy and ability to adapt to market conditions, together with its long-term capital structure and substantial cash resources from recent realisations, Electra is well positioned to further build its portfolio and generate value in the future.
Dr Colette Bowe Chairman 26 November 2013 5
