Chairmans statement A resilient performance in tough market conditions Introduction The Group achieved strong, resilient financial results in 2013, The UK Motor insurance market remains cyclical and, in my a year marked by changes, challenges and opportunities.
experience, history shows that what the market needs is not A number of milestones were passed: the Group listed on the necessarily what guides individual insurers decisions.
As a result, London Stock Exchange and declared its first dividends for clear movements in the cycle tend to come when a critical mass shareholders.
Furthermore, I am proud that the business my of companies see their combined operating ratios deteriorate and team and I have built over the past 14 years has progressed their surplus reserves run dry in the same period.
I dont believe from a start-up into an innovative business within the FTSE 250. the market is quite there yet.
For now, however, focusing on Together with a strong, diverse Board and an experienced the Group, given our careful monitoring of risks and prudent management team, I look forward to realising further the approach to reserving, I believe we are currently well placed to potential of the Group.
Motor market developments Home performance Following Motor market rate reductions experienced during most Our Home book is a key factor in the diversi cation of our of 2012, rates were relatively benign in Q4 2012 and Q1 2013 income and pro t streams.
We started 2013 with over half a and appeared to stabilise.
This gave us the con dence to deliver million customers and added more during the year.
Over the strong policy and premium growth.
This pricing stability was, long term, Home insurance is typically more pro table than however, short lived.
Starting in the latter period of Q2 2013, Motor but more vulnerable to signi cant, unpredictable Motor insurance customers saw yet more signi cant price weather events.
Our low risk focus helped our Home reductions.
This was most likely caused by insurers taking underwriting performance to remain strong despite both pre-emptive action in anticipation of potential future indemnity the adverse weather in Q4 2013 and the competitive bene ts from the Governments civil justice reforms to tackle pricing conditions.
the UK whiplash epidemic and the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of O enders Act 2012, which we collectively refer The esure IPO to as the LASPO Reforms.
esure Group plc listed on the London Stock Exchange on 27 March 2013.
This milestone provided the Group with a The full e ects of these welcome reforms will take some time to solid platform to take the Business to the next level within one come to fruition and, whilst early signs are promising, they are not of the Worlds most competitive general insurance markets.
yet clear enough or large enough to justify the signi cant market rating shi in 2012 and 2013.
I believe, however, the esure and At IPO, we paid back all remaining debt from our capital structure Sheilas Wheels brands are both very well placed to bene t from removing the associated costs of servicing this debt.
Our Listing any future improvements.
also increased the pro le of the esure and Sheilas Wheels brands and provided an opportunity to introduce share ownership and retention schemes for the majority of our sta.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Board Stuart Vann Darren Ogden Dame Helen Alexander Mara Dolores Dancausa Chief Executive O cer Chief Finance O cer Deputy Chairman & Senior Non-Executive Director Independent Director Mike Evans Shirley Garrood Anthony Hobson Anne Richards Peter Ward Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Strong management team Summary The Groups management team under the stewardship of The Groups financial results have been delivered against a CEO, Stuart Vann, and CFO, Darren Ogden demonstrated backdrop of tough market conditions and we are well-placed for an exemplary collaborative work ethic throughout a year the future.
It would not have been possible to achieve the years of transition.
I am proud of their determination to drive signi cant milestones without the hard work of the management the Business forward in what have been challenging team and all our committed sta, to whom the Board and I would market conditions.
like to express our thanks.
Personally, I would also like to thank esure and Sheilas Wheels customers and to con rm the Groups Financial strength and dividend commitment to act with integrity and fairness at all times to The Group has a strong, debt-free financial position, supported safeguard the trust they place in us.
by a conservative investment portfolio and a prudent reserving policy.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 13.3 pence per share.
The full year dividend of 15.8 pence per share represents an annualised pro forma payout ratio of 85%.
The full year annualised pro forma dividend comprises a base dividend of 50% and a special dividend of 35% of post tax pro ts.
Peter Wood The annualised pro forma payout ratio has been grossed up Chairman to re ect the fact the Group has not been Listed for a full year and as such the dividend pence per share represents 5 6ths of the full year dividend that would have been paid had the Group been Listed for the full year.
The full year dividend comprises a base dividend of 9.3 pence per share and a special dividend of 6.5 pence per share.
The Full year dividend per share special dividend has been set with reference to the Groups capital resource requirements, prospective premium growth expectations and a prudent margin for contingencies.
It is the combination of these factors that the Board has examined when setting the final dividend that we have announced today.
15.8 pence esure Group Annual Report 2013 3
