Financial performance The Group delivered a strong increase in the return on capital employed by 2.7 ppts to 10.4% in 2013 with both profit margins and capital turn contributing to this improvement.
The Group continues to be well capitalised with a strong balance sheet with net debt at the end of 2013 of 18 million.
Earnings per share and dividends Basic earnings per share for the year have grown by 49% to 44.9p.
Consistent with the intention to increase dividends progressively as earnings per share increase, the Board will be recommending a final dividend of 9.5p per share, which, when combined with the 2013 interim dividend of 4.0p, totals 13.5p Ian Tyler for the year, an increase of 50% on the 2012 dividend.
The Chairman final dividend will be payable on 23 May 2014 to shareholders on the register on 28 March 2014.
It is the Boards intention to This is my first report to shareholders continue to pursue this progressive dividend approach.
following my appointment as Chairman in Future prospects November 2013.
This is an exciting time for While delivering a strong profit result in 2013, the Group has Bovis Homes and I have been pleased with built a significantly improved forward sales position at the start the strong results for 2013, the successful of 2014, which underpins volume growth for this year.
With deployment of the growth strategy and the another year of carefully targeted but assertive land investment considerable opportunity that I see for the in 2013 ahead of utilisation and a strong land pipeline going Group going forward.
into 2014, sales outlets are expected to grow during 2014 and 2015, supporting further growth in reservation volumes.
Assuming current market conditions continue, the location of The economic backdrop has shown signs of improvement these new sales outlets and the nature of the homes being over the last year and this has been reflected in a recovery in developed is expected to further increase the Groups average the UK housing market.
The availability of mortgage finance sales price and improve profit margins.
Together with a is increasing in terms of the number of mortgages being continued focus on balance sheet efficiency, this is expected to approved, and the rates being charged on these mortgages deliver further strong growth in both capital turn, profitability, are increasingly competitive.
Although indices report that UK and ultimately shareholder returns.
house prices increased strongly in 2013, after excluding the effects of London, house price rises are considered to have People been modest across the country.
However, the Government The Board of directors has been delighted with the has also provided positive assistance, particularly through the commitment and skill shown by the Groups employees in Help to Buy scheme.
As a result of these factors, consumer delivering growth during 2013 and, on behalf of the Board, confidence has improved.
I would like to thank them for their dedication and hard With this improving backdrop, the management team at Bovis work.
The Board would also like to extend its thanks to its Homes has produced a strong set of results in 2013, delivering subcontractors and suppliers.
the targeted improvements in return on capital employed.
The Group is increasingly benefiting from the compound Corporate governance positive effects of stronger volumes, higher average sales Bovis Homes is committed to high standards of corporate price and improving profit margins, driving profits and return governance, including those related to the role and on capital employed higher.
The Group has also set the effectiveness of the Board and compliance with the UK foundations for ongoing growth through its carefully targeted Corporate Governance Code.
Details are set out in the land acquisition strategy, continued product development and corporate governance section on pages 33 to 41. focus on balance sheet strength.
6 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Our business Chairmans statement | Strategic report Our business The Group has achieved excellent progress in 2013 with improved profitability and is well positioned for further growth Corporate social responsibility Conclusion The Group remains committed to delivering strong Corporate Looking ahead, I believe that the Group has the right strategy in Social Responsibility performance.
During 2013, the Group was place to deliver enhanced, sustainable shareholder returns in the able to maintain its health and safety track record, as measured years ahead and I look forward to working with the Board and by incidence rate, notwithstanding a significant increase in build executive team to continue the Groups success.
In respect of customer satisfaction, 93% of customers were happy to recommend Bovis Homes to their friends.
Focus remains high in the Group to make further improvements in both Ian Tyler of these important areas, as part of the overall Corporate Social Chairman Responsibility strategy.
