02 | CHAIRMANS STATEMENT | Chairmans Statement 31 December 2013, payable on 20 May 2014 or earlier if the cash Corporate developments consideration pursuant to the intended transaction with BMO is This is my first statement as Chairman of your Company, having dispatched to shareholders ahead of that date to shareholders assumed the role in August 2013 following Sherbornes distribution on the register at 4 April 2014.
This brings full-year dividends to of shares and Edward Bramsons departure from the Board.
The 3.0 pence per share, which is the same as that paid in respect distribution of Sherbornes 20 per cent holding in the Company to of 2012. their underlying investors not only increased the shareholdings of a number of institutions who were already owners of the Companys Board changes shares, it also resulted in the widening of the Companys shareholder base through the introduction of a number of new As highlighted in last years Annual Report, Ian Brindle and Jeff shareholders.
Medlock retired from the Board on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held on 10 May 2013.
Since that date we have welcomed In 2013, your Company has made good progress towards its strategic two new Directors to the Board, Charlie Porter and Ruth Sack.
Overall profitability has increased, our cost base continues to fall Charlie was formerly Chief Executive of Thames River Capital and and we have generated net inflows within our strategically important therefore joined the Board as a non-independent Non-executive Consumer and Institutional businesses.
While the business remains Director.
Ruth is a partner in The Alliance coaching partnership and exposed to the future actions of our Strategic Partners, who joined the Board as an Independent Non-executive Director.
Both collectively accounted for 51.5 per cent of our year-end assets under Charlie and Ruth have made significant contributions to Board management AUM and 29 per cent of our 2013 net revenue, I believe discussions and are important additions to the Board.
that the positive momentum we have created within the business was a key factor in attracting the offer from BMO Global Asset It is with great sadness that we record the death of Alain Grisay.
Management Europe Limited BMO, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alain had been with F&C from 2001 until his retirement in 2012, and Bank of Montreal announced on 28 January this year.
had been the Companys Chief Executive since 2006.
Alains contribution to F&C, not least steering the Company through the The proposed transaction with BMO, which the Board believes is in financial crisis in 2008 and the demerger of F&C from Friends the best interests of shareholders, clients and staff, represents an Provident in 2009, was very significant.
He was a visionary executive important and positive development in your Companys history, and and business leader with the utmost integrity and someone who provides shareholders with an attractive premium against the was always concerned about fairness and equality for employees.
potential medium-term standalone prospects and valuation of your Alain will be sadly missed by all of us who had the privilege of both Company.
On 25 March 2014, shareholders approved the knowing him and of working together.
Our thoughts are with his acquisition.
Completion of the acquisition, however, remains subject family and friends.
to the satisfaction of certain regulatory and other conditions.
In 2008 9 the Company was in a prolonged offer period as a result Summary of Friends Providents strategic review.
Shareholders may recall the significant challenges that this presented to client and staff retention, 2013 has been an eventful year for your Company and one in which as well as limiting our ability to attract new funds flows.
I am we have made good progress.
The improved profitability reflected in therefore pleased to report that we have received an overwhelmingly the Financial Statements demonstrates the focus your Board, the positive reaction from our clients, employees and other stakeholders management team and all staff have had on developing the to this transaction.
This means that to date we have seen limited business in recent years.
It also illustrates the focus we have on impact from the announcement.
The Board is focused on ensuring meeting or exceeding the expectations of our clients, without whom the risk to the business from any further prolonged period of we would have no business.
Our corporate values, placing clients corporate uncertainty is minimised.
interests at the centre of all we do, will continue to remain of paramount importance to us in the future.
2013 results and dividend My thanks go to our management and staff for their efforts throughout the year that have enabled us to report the improvement in our results.
Underlying earnings per share EPS rose 25.7 per cent to 8.8 pence with underlying profit after tax rising from 37.1 million in 2012 to 49.0 million in 2013.
On a statutory reporting basis, which includes exceptional and non-cash items, the Group made a profit after tax of 10.2 million, compared to a profit after tax of 2.6 million in 2012.
Basic EPS therefore also rose from a loss of 0.1 pence to earnings of 1.5 pence.
Further details of the improved profitability Kieran Poynter are set out in Richard Wilsons Chief Executive Report, Chairman accompanying this statement.
9 April 2014 In the 28 January 2014 announcement, we declared an ordinary course dividend of 2.0 pence per share for the year ended
