Chairmans Statement which is published each business day.
The Board has the ability to issue shares at a premium to NAV and to buy back shares at a discount to NAV for cancellation.
During the reporting year, in furtherance of this policy, the Board authorised the repurchase and cancellation at a discount of 6,525,000 Ordinary Shares.
Since the year end, the Company has repurchased a further 15,250,000 Ordinary Shares for cancellation.
The Board is seeking shareholder consent at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to continue exercising these powers.
John Owen GEARING Chairman On 17 February 2012, the Company entered into a revolving credit facility agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC for I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report of Fidelity China US$150,000,000, which has been fully drawn down.
Special Situations PLC for the year ended 31 March 2013.
To achieve further gearing, the Company uses Contracts For PERFORMANCE REVIEW Di erence on a number of holdings in its portfolio.
Further details During the year under review, the Net Asset Value NAV of the are in Note 19 on page 54.
Company increased by 15.7% outperforming the MSCI China Benchmark Index by 3.5%.
The Companys share price increased At 31 March 2013, the Companys gearing, fide ned as the excess by 15.0% all gures on a total return basis.
These results are of Gross Asset Exposure over Net Assets, was 22.1% 2012: 12.4%.
encouraging for shareholders and mark a clear improvement compared to the previous year.
MANAGEMENT FEE With e ect from 1 April 2013, the annual management fee Although the Company has underperformed the MSCI China payable to the Managers was reduced from 1.5% to 1.2% of the Index by 2.0% since launch, it has outperformed the MSCI China Net Asset Value.
The performance fee remains unchanged.
Mid Cap Index by 17.3% and the MSCI China Small Cap Index by Further details are included in the Directors Report on page 2 1.
It is the view of the Board and the Manager that over a longer period the advantage of investing in ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE smaller and mid cap stocks will be re ected in outperformance AIFMD of the Benchmark.
The implementation date for the AIFMD is expected to be July 2014, the scope of which will require all UK investment trusts Concerns about the hard landing for the Chinese economy have to revise their current operational framework and ultimately lead receded following the relatively smooth leadership transition to increased operational expenses.
during the year and the maintenance of relatively healthy GDP growth.
Government-supported domestic wage increases should The Company will fall under the full scope of the Directive.
boost consumer con dence, validating the consumption and Therefore, it is the intention of the Board to become fully services focus of the portfolio.
compliant with the Directive ahead of the implementation date.
Investors should not underestimate the challenges facing the THE BOARD Chinese Government in rebalancing an economy the size of In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for Chinas from an export-driven to a domestic consumptionDirectors of FTSE 350 companies, the entire Board is subject to focused one.
However, the Board remains convinced of three annual re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
things: The Directors biographies can be found on page 1 5.
The Directors have a wide range of appropriate skills and that no investor should ignore an economy of Chinas experience to form a balanced board for the Company.
importance and every portfolio should consider dedicating a portion of funds to investing in China: THE MANAGER Anthony Bolton, our Portfolio Manager, undertook to manage the that the growth in China should now come from the increase portfolio up until the Companys next year end, in March 2014, in wealth of the growing middle class which would be four years from the launch.
As this date approaches, the Board evidenced by growth in domestic consumption: and has considered carefully the appointment of a suitable successor.
that over time an investment in Chinese equities should I am delighted to say that we have now agreed that Dale generate a good return for shareholders.
Nicholls will succeed Mr Bolton in 2014.
He has an excellent track record and has been investing in China successfully for ten years.
SHARE ISSUES AND SHARE REPURCHASES He will start to work with Mr Bolton in the latter part of 2013 to The Board believes it is in the best interests of shareholders if the ensure an orderly handover in 2014. share price of the Company tracks closely to the underlying NAV, Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 3 Chairmans Statement Mr Nichollss investment style is similar to Mr Boltons, being based on a bottom up analysis of individual stocks.
The Directors are con dent that he will position the portfolio to take best advantage of Chinas continuing growth.
Mr Nicholls will attend the Annual General Meeting on 24 July which will give shareholders an opportunity to meet him.
DIVIDEND As the Companys objective is to achieve long-term capital growth, the Board does not expect that dividends will constitute a material element of the total return to shareholders.
However, in order to continue to qualify as an investment trust, the Company is required under Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 not to retain more than 15% of its total income.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 1.00 pe nce per Ordinary Share to be approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The dividend will be payable on 2 August 2013 to shareholders on the register on 19 July 2013 ex dividend date 17 July 2013.
Shareholders may choose to reinvest their dividends to purchase more shares in the Company.
Details of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan are set out on page 6 5.
THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 24 JULY 2013 The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB, on Tuesday 24 July 2013 at 12 noon.
The Board is looking forward to having the opportunity to speak to shareholders.
The Portfolio Manager, Anthony Bolton, will also be attending in order to give his yearly presentation and to meet shareholders.
John Owen CMG MBE DL Chairman 17 June 2013 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 4
