STRATEGY Chairmans Statement These included lower-quality companies that did not meet the Managers investment criteria of solid balance sheets and growing dividends.
A detailed review of the performance of the portfolio is provided in the Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
Sam Morse has concentrated in his Review on the one year period.
I would, however highlight, that the three year numbers continue to be Humphrey van der Klugt ahead of Benchmark, witha NAV total return of 32.5% versus the Chairman Benchmark of 25.8%.
All figures are in UK sterling and are on a total return basis.
I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report of Fidelity European Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013.
DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT The Board continues to adopt an active discount management Shareholders will see that the format of the Report has policy and share buybacks have been made during the year.
changedthis year with the introduction of a Strategic Report Whilst the primary purpose of our policy is to reduce share price andother changes brought about through new regulations, as volatility in relation to NAV, buying in shares at a discount also referredto later in my Statement.
In my view, some refreshment results in an enhancement to NAV per share.
and additional information is a positive and I hope you find thisuseful.
Your Board has sanctioned share buybacks over the course of 2013 amounting to 2.2% of the issued share capital of the PERFORMANCE Company, a lower figure than the 2.7% repurchased in 2012.
European equities rose over the year to December 2013 as Thegreat majority of the repurchases took place in the first half European economies stabilised and the risk of a Eurozone of the year, when continental European equities were still out of break-up receded.
Markets were supported by improving favour and lacked the support from investors which became macroeconomic data from the Eurozone and the US: the more apparent as the year progressed.
accommodative or easy monetary policy adopted by global policymakers to reduce the cost of borrowing also boosted The lower level of share price volatility apparent in the second sentiment.
However, there was intermittent volatility during the half of 2013 has continued into 2014.
Furthermore, the level of year, particularly as the Italian election ended in a deadlock, discount has narrowed from 8.1% at the start of 2013 to 7.9% at renewing doubts about the continuation of the much needed the year end, based on the NAV excluding income.
This small structural reforms in the country: and later in the year when narrowing in the discount has given rise to a share price total investors became worried about the collapse of the banking return of 20.8% for 2013, ahead of the NAV total return of 20.0%.
Further details of share repurchases may be found in the Against this backdrop, the net asset value NAV per share Directors Report on page 20. ofthe Company returned 20.0%, but underperformed its Benchmark, the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which DIVIDENDS returned25.2%.
While absolute performance remained healthy, The Board intends to continue with its practice of paying out relative performance reflected a number of stock-specific earnings in full.
The objective is one of long term capital disappointments but also an environment in which some of the growthand we will not seek to influence the Manager to companies and regions that had previously been challenged, determine the level of income of your Companys portfolio in often for good reason, became some of the best performers.
PERFORMANCE OVER ONE YEAR, THREE YEARS, FIVE YEARS AND SINCE LAUNCH TO 31 DECEMBER 2013 ON A TOTAL RETURN BASIS % FTSE World Europe 1 NAV Share price ex UK Index One year 20.0 20.8 25.2 Three years 32.5 45.0 25.8 Five years 58.0 73.7 57.4 Since launch 1991 1,950.1 1,777.1 618.9 1 Data prior to the year ended 31 December 2011 is on a net of tax basis Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 3 STRATEGY Chairmans Statement The Board has decided to recommend a final dividend of whatis allowable under current legislation.
I believe we should 29.75pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2013 move with legislative changes, but stress that the Board has no 2012: 27.75 pence.
This dividend will be payable on 23 May intention of using this power in the immediate future and would 2014 to shareholders who appear on the register as at close of only do so if it felt that it were in the best interest of the business on 21 March 2014 ex-dividend date 19 March 2014.
Companys shareholders: and ii to incorporate provisions tofacilitate compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund The proposed dividend increase for 2013 over 2012 is therefore Managers Directive.
Further details can be found below.
Whilst we emphasise that the increase is a function of stock selection and cannot be extrapolated into the future, Sam Morse REGULATORY CHANGES continues to focus on companies which are able to grow their There are a number of regulatory changes that have come into dividends as one of the key factors in his stock selection.
force, or are shortly to come into force, and the Companys A further explanation of the investment process can befound Annual Report for the year under review reflect these changes.
We now include a Strategic Report which is designed to provide better information to the Companys members and potential I would like to make one further observation for shareholders investors on how the Directors have performed their duty in when comparing the level of dividend yield between companies.
promoting the success of the Company.
The Strategic Report can This is that we take a conservative approach of charging all be found on pages 8 to 11.
New regulations have come into management expenses against incomeand not against capital.
force requiring additional information to be included in the Only the performance fee whenapplicable is charged against Directors Remuneration Report and you will note that we are capital.
Some companies, particularly those with an equity now required to adopt a Remuneration Policy which will be put income objective, split management expenses between capital to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and and income, which has the effect of increasing the income return will formally come into force from that date.
You will see also that and dividend paying potential and reducing the capital return.
there is a new Reportof the Audit Committee on pages 29 I should stress that thisdoes not alter the total return from both and 30. capital and income combined.
Moreover there is no right or wrong way and it is amatter for judgement.
However, the basis ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE should be taken intoaccount, particularly when comparing the AIFMD dividend yield between different companies.
You may recall I wrote in the Half-Yearly Report to 30 June 2013 that the Board had agreed to appoint FIL Investments International GEARING the current Manager as its interim Alternative Investment Fund The Company gears through the use of long Contracts For Manager AIFM.
Further to that announcement, the Board has Difference CFDs.
As at 31 December 2013, the level of agreed in principle to appoint FIL Investment Services UK gearing was 4.3% and the Board is currently working within a Limited a FIL Group company to become the Companys AIFM.
Our gearing range at the start of the year was FIL Investment Services UK Limited will delegate the portfolio 5-15%, with gearing on 1 January 2013 of 11.1%.
Gearing was management to FIL Investments International.
reduced as the year progressed, in line with a more cautious stance as share prices rose, expressed in the Managers Review An additional requirement of the AIFMD is to appoint a on pages 6 and 7.
Gearing made a positive contribution to depositary on behalf of the Company who will oversee the performance during the year, as can be seen from the Attribution custody cash arrangements and other AIFM responsibilities of Analysis table on page9.
To this end the Board have agreed in principle toappoint J. P. Morgan Europe Limited to act as the Companys It is pleasing to note that the move to using CFDs as a means of depositary.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited is part of the same group gearing the portfolio, introduced in 2011 in place of traditional of companies as JPMorgan Chase Bank, who act as the bank loans, continues to be positive.
Operationally it works Companys bankers and custodians.
JPMorgan Chase Bank will smoothly and it has been significantly cheaper for the Company continue to act as bankers and custodians to the Company.
than if we had used more traditional forms of borrowing.
PROPOSED SUB DIVISION OF SHARES REVISED ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Board are conscious that the Companys share price has There have been a number of recent changes to tax, regulation increased substantially from its launch price of 1 per share in and company law which affect investment trusts and the 1991 to a price of 15.20 per share as at close of business on Company.
The Board is therefore seeking approval at the 6 March 2014.
The higher share price has caused a notable forthcoming Annual General Meeting to adopt new Articles of proportion of individuals monthly savings amounts and dividend Association substantially in the form of the existing Articles of reinvestment amounts in Savings and ISA plans to roll over to the Association but updated to reflect these changes.
To help alleviate this problem, and to enhance the new Articles of Association have been amended: i to the appeal of the Companys shares to investors with smaller remove the prohibition on the distribution of realised capital amounts, we announced on 17 January 2014 a proposal to sub profits: this change will help to keep our Articles in line with divide your Companys shares on a 10 for 1 basis.
If this had Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 4 STRATEGY Chairmans Statement been in effect on 6 March 2014, the new share price for each CONTINUATION VOTE of the 10 new ordinary shares arising would, following the In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, sub-division, become approximately 1.52 and the nominal value an ordinary resolution that the Company continue as an per share would, following the sub-division, become 2.5 pence investment trust for a further two years was passed at the 2013 per share.
A further continuation vote will take place at the Annual General Meeting in 2015.
A 10 for 1 basis, rather than some other multiple, has the advantage of making it easier for shareholders to equate their ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING new share price and holding to their original purchase price and The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at holding.
The proposed share split will be put to shareholders Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA St Pauls atthe forthcoming Annual General Meeting as an ordinary or Mansion House tube stations on Thursday 15 May 2014 at resolution.
If passed, applications will be made for admission of midday.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages 59 to 62. the new Ordinary shares to the Official List and on the London Myfellow Directors and I look forward to talking with as many Stock Exchanges market for listed securities.
If the applications shareholders as possible on this occasion.
We will be holding are accepted, it is proposed that the effective date for dealings apresentation by our Portfolio Manager, Sam Morse.
to commence in the new Ordinary shares will be 2 June 2014.
Further details of the resolution can be found on pages 22 and OUTLOOK 23.
We hope you will support this resolution.
The economic backdrop in Europe is improving and the trend is continuing into 2014.
Whilst the Eurozone still presents many DIRECTORATE challenges, the main focus of concern amongst investors has We are pleased to have welcomed Marion Sears to the Board shifted to China, which is experiencing a slowdown in growth, in2013 and shareholders voted in favour of her appointment and Emerging Markets which are being impacted by the atour 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Also at the 2013 Annual tapering of Quantitative Easing in the United States.
However, General Meeting Simon Duckworth retired from the Board after weshould not ignore the fact that many companies that operate ten years as a Director and we give thanks to Simon for the within Europe generate much of their earnings from Emerging valuable contribution he has made over the many years he has Markets, particularly China and this, along with the level of served on the Board.
We wish him well in his future endeavours.
exuberance we saw in markets in 2013, means that a degree of Subsequently, no further changes have been made.
As I write this report, there is a dangerous situation developing closer to home in Crimea.
The In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for outcome is difficult to predict, but it will certainly impact equity Directors of FTSE 350 companies the entire Board is subject to markets.
In this respect, our focus remains on investing in strong annual re-election.
The Directors biographies canbe found on European companies offering fundamental value with the page 18.
The Directors have a wide range of appropriate skills prospect of making decent returns from current valuation levels.
and experience to make up a balanced Board for your We are, as I said this time last year, fortunate to have a wide Company.
With the exception of Simon Fraser, in the opinion of choice of investment opportunities across the region.
the Board, all other Directors are independent.
Simon Fraser, due to his previous employment relationship with the Manager and his directorship of another investment trust managed by Fidelity, namely Fidelity Japanese Values PLC, is deemed non-independent by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is convinced that Simon Frasers experience serves the Company well: and the Directors support unanimously his continued position as a Director of the Company.
Humphrey van der Klugt Chairman In line with good corporate governance the Board carries out an 10 March 2014 assessment of its own performance every year and every three years an independent, externally facilitated evaluation of its performance takes place as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code for Directors of all FTSE 350 companies.
The next such independent evaluation will take place during 2015.
The Board has considered the proposals for the re-election of all of the Directors and recommends to shareholders that they vote in favour of the proposals.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 5
