Chairmans letter The measures taken to secure and reshape the group are taking hold.
BP is stronger and safer as a result.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Dear fellow shareholder, In 2013 BP continued the programme of renewal we began following the crisis of 2010.
The measures taken to secure and reshape the group are taking hold.
As this report shows, BP is stronger and safer as a result.
Change within the group has taken place against the backdrop of a rapidly evolving world.
The energy landscape is developing at pace, for example, the growth of shale gas in the US.
But the long-term supply challenge has not gone away.
More energy is required to meet the needs and aspirations of a rising global population.
The BP Energy Outlook projects an average increase in energy demand of 1.5% per year through to 2035.
Thats like adding the needs of a country twice the size of the US over the next twenty years.
We are also seeing that society has ever higher expectations of business.
This is reected in the increasing scrutiny placed on the commercial sector, particularly by politicians and the media.
Companies must work hard to maintain peoples trust and respect.
Shareholders expectations are shifting too, particularly in the extractive industries sector.
Some investors feel that international oil companies have spent too much for too little return.
A decade of mergers and acquisitions in our industry has generated little production growth.
Capital expenditure has increased but profit margins have been squeezed.
Rightly, shareholders expect better returns.
10-year dividend history The board recognizes this changing world and the importance of our response.
Throughout UK pence per ordinary share 2013 we gave close attention to strategy, project appraisal and capital discipline, working with Bob Dudley and his team to ensure the group spends its money wisely.
BPs strategy 36.42 40 is rooted in three imperatives: clear priorities, a quality portfolio and distinctive capabilities.
29.39 30 Our first clear priority is to run safe and reliable operations.
We must also make disciplined 23.40 21.10 21.00 20.85 19.15 financial choices, selecting the smart options that can help meet demand and generate 17.40 20 15.25 value.
Furthermore, we must be competitive in how we execute our projects.
8.68 Our quality portfolio, which is at the core of our strategy, is the result of the choices we 10 make.
It contains assets that enable us to play to our areas of greatest strength, from exploration to high-value upstream projects particularly deepwater operations, giant 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 elds and gas value chains and high-quality downstream businesses.
To these assets and activities we apply our distinctive capabilities the expertise of our US cents per ADS people, advanced technology and the ability to build the strong relationships required to access resources and deliver complex projects.
400 336 330 In all of this, we are focused on value before volume.
In other words we dont simply chase 300 254 production for the sake of it, rather we choose projects where we can generate the most 230 219 209 value through our production.
198 166 168 200 We know we must be disciplined, sticking to clear limits on capital expenditure, and 84 balancing rewards for shareholders today with the long-term capital investment required 100 for tomorrow.
Safety and strong governance must underpin everything we do.
04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 2013 was a busy and successful year for BP, with progress in our underlying operations.
Our growing confidence was reected in the dividend increase announced in October One ADS represents six 25 cent ordinary shares.
6 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Strategic report Board performance 2013 the third increase in two years.
We also returned value to shareholders through the For information about the board and its $8-billion share repurchase programme announced in March 2013.
Additional distributions committees see page 71. are planned as we make further divestments to reshape our portfolio.
The milestones set for 2014 will be an important measure of progress and your board is monitoring this Remuneration closely.
For information about our approach to executive directors remuneration see I am particularly pleased that in 2013 we completed our transaction with Rosneft, closing page 20. one chapter in Russia and opening another.
This is an important investment with the potential to create substantial value for BP over the years to come.
2013 also saw the shocking attack at the In Amenas facility in Algeria.
Our thoughts remain with the families and friends of those who died.
The response of management to this tragedy was strong and the board acted positively and promptly.
We continue to address uncertainty in the US.
In 2013, we once again met our responsibilities to the region by paying legitimate claims arising from the 2010 accident and oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
And we met our responsibilities to shareholders by challenging and resisting any attempt to take advantage of BP with claims that are not legitimate.
We will ght through the courts until matters are resolved properly, however long that takes.
In the meantime, the board is working to ensure that BP is not distracted from growing the business and creating shareholder value.
Boards set the tone and values that shape performance and behaviour over the long term.
An effective board creates an enduring framework within which management can lead.
Having been through challenging times, the BP board has grown into a strong team with experienced non-executives drawn from relevant industries.
This year, more than ever, they have been out to see BPs operations for themselves, from India to Indiana.
We continue to be assisted on geopolitical matters by the international advisory board.
Our approach to governance has enabled us to focus on critical strategic issues, with our board committees taking on the many oversight and compliance matters that require attention.
Top: Members of BPs safety, ethics and Remuneration continues to be a board matter of particular importance to shareholders, environment assurance committee SEEAC with executive pay policy now subject to a vote at the annual general meeting.
BP has a visited Canada to see the oil sands operations at record of ensuring there are clear links between strategy, performance and remuneration.
the Sunrise project site and meet local This will continue.
I believe diversity helps to strengthen the effectiveness of a board.
We plan succession Bottom: Members of SEEAC travelled to the well ahead and are developing a pipeline of potential board candidates.
We are committed Gelsenkirchen renery in Germany to speak with to progress and nding the right people for our board.
apprentices and control room operators about risk management and processes.
I would like to end by thanking you, our shareholders, for your continued support.
I also want to acknowledge the people who drive your company forward every working day.
From Bob Dudley and his management team to employees across the business: our people are doing a great job of transforming BP.
Their hard work has moved us forward, with the promise of more to come.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman 6 March 2014 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 7
