Chairmans Statement to stimulate its economy and there were no new crises in Europe.
However, stronger growth led to concerns about higher interest rates which hit many emerging markets hard.
Bond prices fell and the gold price was very weak.
Company profits grew but not by as much as expected so the valuations of many markets rose to the highest level since the start of the financial crisis.
The most striking feature of the year was the absence of any major crisis or market setback, in sharp contrast to the years since 2007.
Simon Fraser The net asset value total return of 21.4% compares Chairman with 21.0% from our benchmark, the FTSE All World index.
Our investment trust peer group was also up 21.0% and the size weighted open ended fund average 22.6%.
The biggest contributor to our own performance came from gearing into the rising markets.
We suffered from being underweight in the 2013 was a good year for your company.
The net US but outperformed that market by a wide margin.
asset value per share with debt at market value rose Our private equity portfolio had an excellent year of 18.8% to 424.8 pence and the share price 17.9% cash generation.
Over the course of the year the to 378.0 pence.
The net asset value total return combination of higher markets and lower borrowings was 21.4%.
The total dividend for 2013 will be 9.00 led to a reduction in gearing from 14.3% to 8.0%.
Dividend Performance Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual There was a sharp divide between the performance General Meeting, you will receive a final dividend of of stock markets.
Developed markets did well and 2.70 pence per share on 1 May 2014.
This will bring emerging markets were weak.
The UK surprised the total dividend for the year to 9.00 pence.
That will many by having the strongest economic growth be an increase of 5.9% over 2012 compared with followed by the US.
Japan made several bold moves an increase of 2.7% in the Retail Price Index and Foreign & Colonials annual dividend per share vs Retail Prices Index over 10 years 250 200 150 Source: Morningstar UK Limited & F&C 100 Dec 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Dec 03 13 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust annual dividend per share Retail Prices Index Report and Accounts 2013 3 Chairmans Statement continued Foreign & Colonials share price total return vs Benchmark and Retail Prices Index over 10 years 260 240 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 Source: Morningstar UK Limited 80 Dec 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Dec 03 13 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust price total return Benchmark FTSE All World Index GBP Retail Prices Index continues our record of long-term growth ahead of 3,215, with dividends reinvested, which compares the rate of inflation.
Cash realisations from our private with 2,697 from the FTSE All World Index.
The equity portfolio and the repayment of our expensive Companys dividend has risen every year and is debenture at the end of this year will further now well over three times greater than the 2.51p strengthen our dividend paying ability.
The Board paid in 1997, significantly outpacing inflation.
We are is therefore planning another increase in dividends.
confident that Paul Niven, supported by the wider The total dividend for 2014 can be expected to be at investment resource available to F&C, will build on least 9.30 pence, an increase of 3.3% and the fortyJeremys achievements and continue to deliver longfourth consecutive annual increase.
term outperformance for you as shareholders.
I would like to express our warmest thanks to Fund Manager Jeremy not only for his commitment and contribution After almost 17 years, Jeremy Tigue has indicated to the Company, but also to the investment trust his intention to step down from his role as Fund industry as a whole.
Jeremy will as usual make Manager.
The Board is fully engaged with our his investment presentation to shareholders at the management company, F&C, in ensuring a smooth Annual General Meeting at which I also look forward handover of Jeremys responsibilities and we are to introducing Paul.
pleased to announce that Paul Niven will become Fund Manager of your company with effect from Manager reappointment and regulatory changes 1 July 2014.
Paul is Head of Multi-Asset Investment The Board has reappointed F&C following its annual at F&C Asset Management and chairs their asset formal review of the management company.
He has worked closely with Company will be an Alternative Investment Fund Jeremy for almost a decade and has extensive under the Alternative Investment Fund Management experience of managing large diversified investment Directive, F&C will also be appointed in the funds.
He is therefore very well suited to the role.
capacity of Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
Jeremy has made an important contribution in Arrangements for the Company to comply with the continuing the Companys strong record of Directive are being put in place with F&C and with delivering long-term growth in capital and income.
At a depositary, also required under these changes, in 31 December 2013 a 1,000 investment made at the order to meet the deadline in July 2014. time of Jeremys appointment would now be worth 4 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Chairmans Statement continued It has been announced that F&Cs parent company, The future F&C Asset Management, has agreed to be taken over Global economic growth is accelerating, inflation is by the asset management arm of Bank of Montreal.
subdued and the major central banks are unlikely to This transaction is expected to conclude later in increase interest rates this year.
Companies remain 2014 and we believe that it will bring some welcome in a strong financial position and are becoming ownership stability, which will be to the benefit of their more optimistic about future growth prospects.
The Board will, of course, recovery from the global financial crisis has been long continue to monitor developments very carefully.
and difficult but it is now becoming well established.
There are still areas of uncertainty including The Board and corporate governance the longer term interest rate outlook and the high We enlisted the support of an independent levels of government and consumer debt in many consultant for the appraisal of the Boards countries.
After a doubling of many share prices over effectiveness in 2013.
This has been useful not only the last five years we do not expect another doubling for 2013 but also in assessing our progress since our in the next five years.
The Board have In 2014, we will continue to make the portfolio more set themselves a number of objectives in 2014.
We will reduce the UK weighting and will invest highest priorities will be to execute the Fund Manager the proceeds in a selection of funds investing mostly succession plan and explore further the extensive outside the UK.
We will benefit from cash realisations investment resources available to F&C and ultimately from our private equity portfolio.
In 2015 and beyond to your Company.
We will also continue to improve we will get another boost from the repayment of our the marketing activities performed on behalf of the expensive debenture.
Therefore we are optimistic we Company with a view to attracting new investment will continue to deliver long-term growth in income and into the trust.
In a world where savers are increasingly having As part of our marketing focus, Francesca Ecsery to make their own investment decisions, we believe was appointed as a non-executive Director of the Company is well-positioned as a long-term core the Company on 1 August 2013.
Francesca brings holding for investors.
extensive marketing expertise to the Board and will stand for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
All the other Directors will stand for re-election.
Shareholders will also be asked to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy and to adopt new articles of association.
These will reflect further Simon Fraser changes in company and tax laws and relevant Chairman 3 March 2014 corporate governance rules and practices.
The Company remains committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and has complied with the relevant guidance throughout the year.
Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements are based on the Directors current view and on information known to them at the date of this document.
Nothing should be construed as a profit forecast.
