8 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Chairmans statement I have great pleasure in announcing our excellent results for the year ending 2013.
The Group has enjoyed record new business flows and record new clients leading to a substantial increase in profits.
These results speak for themselves.
"We This year we also decided it was in the ""The culture at have increased margins, profits, funds interests of shareholders to rotate our under management and improved client auditor."
We thank Deloitte for providing satisfaction.
Hargreaves Lansdown excellent service over the past 7 years, Hargreaves continues to be a financially strong especially during the exciting times organisation with a clean, strong, debt-free of our flotation in 2007.
Following a Lansdown has balance sheet retaining a healthy margin comprehensive tender process we shall be over the regulatory capital adequacy recommending the appointment of PwC at requirements: a source of comfort to our the Annual General Meeting.
In line with been built around clients.
Therefore after careful review of governance guidelines we shall regularly the company's future cash requirements, review our auditor.
looking after the paying due regard to planned strategic initiatives, the Board has decided to Considerable Board time has been devoted interests of our increase the dividend by paying a second to the sustainability of the business and interim ordinary dividend of 14.38p per the protection of our hard won reputation share 2012: 10.65p and an increased and standing.
"Our Board Effectiveness clients. """
special dividend of 8.91p per share 2012: Review this year was particularly thorough, 6.84p representing total dividends for the details of which are summarised on page Michael Evans year of 29.59p per share 2012: 22.59p : an 36.
The revisions we announced last year to Chairman increase of 31%.
our remuneration policy were well received by shareholders so we propose only minor The culture at Hargreaves Lansdown amendments this year, details of which can has been built around looking after the be found on pages 45 to 54. interests of our clients and our business is now entrusted with over 36 billion During the coming year, to meet new of the UK publics savings.
Its security regulation in the form of the Retail is a vital part of the Boards duties and Distribution Review RDR and the end of good governance is key.
Our Corporate the commission era, we shall change the Governance statement on pages 34 to companys pricing model.
This change will 42 details our compliance with the UK mainly be limited to clients holding fund Corporate Governance Code.
We shall offer funds with lower annual management charges and at the same time introduce charges for the service we provide.
"co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 9 I am confident that these new measures ""Our people are will be introduced smoothly and efficiently."
"Whilst it will represent a significant change, fortunately our clients are faithful and integral to our enthusiastic about our service and I am confident they will reward us by embracing success""."
This year there have been no changes to the Board other than Stephen Lansdown stepping down at last Novembers AGM as previously announced.
Accordingly, Excellent, courteous, professional, we seek to add to the existing strength, knowledgeable.
These are comments we knowledge and experience of our Board frequently hear about our staff.
We know we with the appointment of at least one new provide an excellent service to our clients, Non-Executive Director.
and we know that this is important to them, because they tell us.
As ever, the coming year will be a challenging one but I have every confidence Our helpdesks handle up to 6,000 calls each that we will take it in our stride.
When clients or prospective clients call people are integral to our success and, us, their call is answered promptly usually as always my gratitude goes to the Board in less than 10 seconds and they speak to and the talented people we employ for a person, not an automated message.
their continuing hard work, diligence and enthusiasm.
This service culture exists in every part of our business.
The ability to deliver such Michael Evans consistently high levels of service is rarely Chairman found in the financial services industry.
10 September 2013 We believe there is a special culture in Hargreaves Lansdown.
It wasn't created, it just exists.
When people visit our offices they feel it.
They find the atmosphere and culture magnetic.
