CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Heralds net asset value per share appreciated by 26.9% from 632.8p to 802.8p.
This increase falls below our specialist comparative indices but compares well with more general equity indices.
Over five years, our return has been 218% compared to 162% and 171% for our comparator indices.
For some years we have expressed disappointment that the market has ignored smaller companies, which seemed to offer sound value.
The only exit for our holdings for an extended period of time was takeovers from private equity and corporate buyers at unappealing values, albeit at a premium to the market.
Additionally, the market was conspicuously failing in its main function of providing primary capital to growing businesses.
It has been a relief to see that the smaller companies asset class is being rediscovered.
From September onwards the primary market has decisively re-opened.
As the IPO market had been closed for about six years there appears to be a material backlog of companies seeking to list in the TMT sector.
But valuations have not run up to the extent that corporate activity has disappeared.
In fact cash takeovers totalling 37m occurred in the portfolio in 2013 and bids for Delcam and Andor, which were made late in the year and which have yet to complete, are valued at a further 9.2m.
It is interesting to observe that we added to our holding in Andor during the market crisis in 2009, deliberately paying above 70p, which was the level of the takeover bid that we helped to fend off.
The agreed price of 525p is more reasonable and provides proper value for our shareholders.
The regional performances within the Trust diverged.
The UK portfolio returned 24.7%, which lagged the broader Numis Smaller Companies Index extended to include AIM, which returned 30.9%.
The North American portfolio returned 37.0% Russell 2000 Tech Index 38.6%, and the European portfolio appreciated 59.0%.
Although the Far East return was a more modest 10.7% this outperformed the local indices.
The Trust has solidly built on the outperformance from more difficult years, leading to a total return for the Trust of 95.3% since the beginning of 2008, which pre-dates the period of the financial crisis and the subsequent recovery.
The market strength has reflected a rerating, and seen strong performance from cyclical recovery stocks, which Herald had avoided on the downside.
In addition there has been a certain return to momentum investing with some niche situations obtaining valuations that it is hard to justify mathematically.
The NAV per share now stands decisively higher than the peak seen in the first quarter 2000 the peak of the Dotcom bubble.
In February 2000 the month end fully diluted NAV per share was 697p, but this was a very short lived spike.
At the end of 2013 the price earnings ratio of the profitable holdings in the portfolio was 16.4x on forecast earnings for 2013, versus 13.0x at the end of 2012.
In contrast the average p e of the profitable stocks in the portfolio at the end of February 2000 was higher by over four times.
Although valuations are not as compelling as they were in 2008 9 they are much more solidly based than they were in 2000.
In previous years we have expressed enthusiasm for the TMT sector, citing the importance of the pricing power derived from intellectual property and brands.
In an internet world of transparent pricing and efficient communications profit margins are hard to achieve without HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 5 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
indd 5 05 03 2014 09:01 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued these attributes.
Just as unskilled labour costs are declining in real terms in the developed world, skilled labour is becoming ever more valuable.
From the Herald micro stock picking view of the world, the fashion for emerging markets, with much GDP growth but little pricing power, seemed a little bewildering.
It is reassuring that our fundamental perspective seems to have been vindicated by the relative underperformance of these markets in the recent past.
Nevertheless the profits growth in our investee companies in 2013 has been the worst since 2002, with the brief exception of the temporary traumas in the financial crisis.
The slight loss on the profit and loss account reflects several factors listed in order of significance: first, a decline in dividends received of 1% versus a compound growth of 23.4% over the three previous years: secondly, lower interest rates on cash and bonds, the decision to take profits on the latter, and the amortisation of bonds to par: thirdly, a rise in costs including the interest paid on debt and the management fee 13.8% reflecting the growth of NAV during the year.
The most significant and surprising factor is the decline in dividends after a lacklustre year in 2012.
This reflects changes in the portfolio more than the absence of growth.
Investors seem to have chased dividends which has led us to take profits and divert resources to earlier stage companies where there continues to be a reluctance to invest and values are better.
This has led to the percentage of the portfolio invested in unprofitable companies rising to around 30% from a historic average of around 17.5% and this trend may continue.
This perhaps implies an increase in the risk of the portfolio, but the Manager argues that the market is thus far timid about investing in companies not yet profitable and that leads to more interesting valuations.
Unquestionably there is higher stock specific risk, but this is reduced by diversification.
No dividend will be recommended.
Baillie Gifford has undertaken the role of company secretary and administrator for the Trust since 2000.
We were disappointed that they resigned during the year ahead of the requirement for this fund, in common with all other investment trusts, to be designated an Alternative Investment Fund by the Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive, AIFMD a new piece of legislation imposed by the European Union, which came into force in July 2013.
We should like to thank Baillie Gifford for the exemplary service that they provided.
From 1st November 2013 The Bank of New York Mellon has taken on the fund accounting role, and Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited has become company secretary.
The Board has determined to appoint Herald Investment Management Limited as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager under the terms of the AIFMD.
We are delighted to welcome Dr Tom Black to the Board.
He was chief executive of Detica, which was a rewarding holding in this fund until its takeover by British Aerospace.
He now chairs Digital Barriers which is one of the few early stage companies to have raised capital in the desert years of 2008-2012, which is a measure of the high regard in which he is held by smaller companies fund managers.
Julian Cazalet Chairman 25 February 2014 6 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
