Chairmans Statement The Association of Investment Companies AIC recommends Introduction reporting an Ongoing Charges Percentage.
As at 31 March 2013, Once again, on behalf of the Board, I am pleased to be able to report using the AIC methodology, the Companys Ongoing Charges that the year to 31 March 2013 has been a busy and successful Percentage was 1.19% 1.38% for the year to 31 March 2012.
There period for the Company.
Not only did the Company achieve its stated is no performance fee payable to any service provider.
long-term distribution target of 7.0p per share, but its strong performance enabled it to deliver a total shareholder return based More details of the financial results are set out below.
on share price and dividends paid of 14.7% in the year.
Portfolio Performance With interest rates in many developed markets still at low levels, and The Groups portfolio continues to perform well, and as at 31 March no imminent prospect of material increases, the low-volatility, 2013 consisted of 79 social and transportation infrastructure inflation-linked, cash-yielding features of the Groups portfolio are projects 70 as at 31 March 2012.
The return generated from the exceptionally attractive to investors looking to match their long term portfolio after rebasing it for new investments, disposals and assets and liabilities.
distributions was 8.9% 2012: 9.1% which reflects not only the unwinding of the discount rate, but value-accretive acquisitions and Given the underlying strong fundamentals of the current portfolio, asset management derived value enhancements which include coupled with the new investment pipeline, we expect the Company contract variation income and insurance benefits.
to be able to provide shareholders with sustainable distributions alongside preservation of capital value.
In November 2012, the Group made its first divestment, the Doncaster Schools PFI project, for 5.3m which yielded a 0.5m Financial Results and Performance capital gain on the September 2012 Directors valuation.
Financial Results As in previous periods, the Company has prepared pro-forma Following completion of construction works on the M80 Motorway accounts on an Investment basis treating all 79 holdings as DBFO in Scotland in December 2012, the Group currently has no investments.
On an Investment basis profit before tax was 93.1m projects in the construction phase.
This increase reflects a combination of rising secondary The Investment Advisers asset management team continues to be market prices, contributions from new investments, actual inflation actively engaged across the Groups portfolio of assets, maintaining exceeding the 2.75% p. a. valuation assumption and value dialogue with our public sector clients and partners to find new enhancements to existing investments.
Guidance published by HM Treasury has prompted a constructive response from public sector clients.
Some Cash received from the portfolio by way of distributions, capital clients are working very closely with the Group to share our repayments and fees was 76.8m 2012: 51.2m.
After Group costs, experiences of past initiatives: others have been very pleased with net cash inflows of 64.3m adequately covered the distributions the current levels of service and associated contractual costs and paid in the year.
The growth in cash generated was in line with our have not sought to make changes.
projections, benefitting from the acquisitions made in the current and the prior year.
Valuation As in previous periods, the Investment Adviser has prepared a fair On a consolidated IFRS basis, the profit before tax was 55.4m market valuation for each investment in the portfolio as at 31 March 2012: 84.2m.
Profit before tax has decreased due predominantly 2013.
This valuation is based on a discounted cashflow analysis of to a 52.7m reduction in gains on finance receivables arising from the future expected equity and loan note cashflows accruing to the lower reductions in UK long term gilt rates in the year compared to Group from each investment.
This valuation uses key assumptions the prior year.
which are benchmarked from a review of recent comparable market transactions in order to arrive at a fair market value.
The Company has raised a total of 272.6m before expenses in the year: 105.3m through tap issues and 167.3m through the New The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the methodology used, Ordinary Shares capital raising in March 2013. the economic assumptions adopted, and the discount rates applied.
The Directors have again taken independent third party advice on the Total fees accruing to InfraRed Capital Partners Limited the valuation carried out by the Investment Adviser.
Investment Adviser amounted to 13.0m in the year, comprising their management fee, the fees paid on the acquisitions made and The Directors have approved the valuation of 1,213.1m for the the advisory fee.
The Investment Adviser does not receive any fees portfolio of 79 investments as at 31 March 2013.
This includes one from, nor are there any contracts with, the project companies in outstanding investment commitment to a single project of 12.7m as the portfolio.
at 31 March 2013 which was subsequently paid in April 2013.
4 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 Last year the Company was again able to grow its assets and its distributions.
The business performed well operationally and, as a result, the Company met its long term target of an annual distribution of 7.0p per share within the seven year time horizon set at the time of the IPO in March 2006.
The valuation of 1,213.1m compares with 902.0m as at 31 March In addition, the conditional contract to acquire the two Conditional 2012, 1,015.9m as at 30 September 2012, and 1,174.1m as at Investments identified in the Prospectus, being a 50% interest in 31 December 2012 as reported in the Companys prospectus of the University of Sheffield Accommodation project and a 29.2% 26 February 2013 Prospectus.
An analysis of the increase in the interest in the Bradford Schools Phase I project, has been signed valuation is detailed in the Investment Advisers Report.
and the acquisitions are now subject to certain third party approvals and consents.
On an Investment basis the NAV per share was 120.0p at 31 March 2013 2012: 116.3p.
The Investment basis NAV per share after the These post period transactions were all part of the identified pipeline second interim distribution at 31 March 2013 was 116.4p: an of new investments reviewed by the Board at the time of the New increase of 3.2% over the comparable figure at 31 March 2012 Ordinary Shares issue in March 2013.
Following the completion of being attributable to increased pricing for secondary market assets, the two Conditional Investments, the Group will have circa 43.2m the operational performance of the portfolio and new, valuefrom the capital raising still to be invested and the Board is very accretive investments.
confident that these funds will be invested by the summer and ahead of plan.
The NAV per share on an IFRS basis at 31 March 2013 was 117.9p 2012: 117.0p.
Distributions On 21 February 2013, the Board declared a second interim Acquisitions distribution of 3.575p per share for the year to 31 March 2013 2012: The Group has made 10 new investments and 11 incremental 3.50p.
This brought the total distributions paid for the year to 7.00p, acquisitions during the year for a total consideration of 278.0m.
representing a 2.2% growth on the prior year total of 6.85p.
The Further details are set out in the Investment Advisers report.
second interim dividend was declared, and subsequently paid, to allow the share price to trade ex-dividend during the New Ordinary The Board is pleased that, even in the competitive environment for Shares capital raising in March 2013. these types of investments, the Investment Adviser has been able to generate a consistently strong pipeline of potential acquisitions, As in prior years, a scrip dividend alternative was offered which sourced through a wide network of industry relationships, the secured a 13.7% take-up.
The distribution or scrip dividend was majority of which are then negotiated on an exclusive basis.
During paid on 22 April 2013 to those shareholders on the register as at the year the Investment Adviser participated in 15 auctions and was 1 March 2013. successful in three, indicating pricing was higher than the Group was prepared to pay.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM in July 2012, shareholders gave the Board the power to offer a scrip dividend alternative and Since the financial year end the Group has acquired four new this power runs until the next AGM on 25 July 2013.
Based on the investments totalling 36.1m.
These are the 50% interest in the level of take-up and feedback from shareholders, it is the Boards Tameside General Hospital project for 16.0m, 33.3% interest in intention to seek a renewal of this power at the forthcoming AGM.
Addiewell Prison for 10.3m, and a 60% interest in two further LIFT projects in London and Kent for 9.8m.
Based on the current performance of the portfolio, the Board is targeting total distributions for the year to 31 March 2014 of 7.1p per share 2013: 7.0p.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 5 Chairmans Statement continued Growing investor interest in infrastructure as an asset class, and the Company in particular, was evidenced by the strong support for the Companys issue of New Ordinary Shares in March and two tap issues in November and December.
The outcome of administration was a Risks and Uncertainties re-organisation of healthcare services in the area and an agreement The UK has been at the forefront of public infrastructure on continued central funding to support these projects.
procurement in partnership with private sector capital for almost two decades.
Following a consultation on how the original PFI model of This outcome provided comfort that the UK Government would not procurement could be improved and enhanced, the UK Government unilaterally seek to amend or renege on existing contracts, used the Chancellor of the Exchequers Autumn Statement on especially relevant given the importance of private capital for the 5 December 2012 to present the new procurement model called PF2.
funding of new infrastructure in the National Infrastructure Plan.
The Investment Advisers Report provides more detailed commentary Every project in the Groups portfolio has long-term non-recourse on both PF2 and the UK Governments 2012 National Infrastructure debt.
The term is typically one to two years shorter than the term of Plan but, essentially, the framework is now in place for the the contract.
There is no refinancing risk.
participation by private sector capital in the construction and funding of new public infrastructure.
Moreover, PF2 clearly attaches Projects have exposures to banks in the form of interest rate swaps significant importance to the involvement of long-term institutional and deposit accounts.
The Investment Adviser monitors and investors both in the provision of equity as well as debt capital for manages these exposures as appropriate.
While these are very positive steps, it remains unclear how quickly new projects will come to market and when The projects in the portfolio rely on partners who contract to provide capital will be required.
There is good diversification amongst our service partners which has again increased with the new acquisitions made in the A component of the new PF2 model is competition for project equity year.
There are no material performance or credit issues to report.
which is aimed at reducing the cost of capital.
It is too early to say whether the risks and rewards achievable under the new model will The Investment Adviser monitors project performance and, if issues be suitable for the Group.
arise, takes action to minimise any impact.
As one would expect for a portfolio of this size, there will always be some investments with The Groups project cashflows are positively correlated with inflation, operational matters to be resolved, and the Investment Advisers and future inflation, based on current expectations, is one of the key team is actively engaged in facilitating timely and acceptable drivers of the Directors valuation.
In late 2012 the UKs Office for outcomes.
Our investments in Holland and Ireland have not been National Statistics ONS undertook a consultation on the method impacted by the Eurozone crisis, but we remain watchful.
of calculation of RPI and RPIx inflation in the UK.
Although there was speculation around a formula change which would deliver a lower The Alternative Investment Managers Directive AIFMD is scheduled figure for RPI, and thus create a one-off downside impact on the to come into force in July 2013, with transitional arrangements for a Companys portfolio valuation, the ONS announced a no change year.
This could impact on our ability to market the Company in various recommendation in February 2013.
European jurisdictions, with a consequent impact on share price and liquidity.
We have monitored developments closely and have taken The Group is reliant on its clients, namely public sector entities, to professional advice and worked with the Investment Adviser to ensure fulfil their payment obligations under the PFI contracts.
An NHS trust that we are appropriately prepared to make any changes required in a in South London with financial difficulties, and party to two PFI timely fashion.
projects in neither of which the Company is invested, was put into 6 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 Corporate Governance Corporate Social Responsibility On 30 September 2011 the Guernsey Financial Services Commission Public Procurement and Engagement the Commission issued the Finance Sector Code of Corporate During the last year the UK witnessed sluggish economic growth and Governance.
This Code comprises Principles and Guidance, and there were fears of a triple-dip recession.
Capital expenditure on provides a formal expression of good corporate practice against public infrastructure procurement is regarded as having the potential which shareholders, boards and the Commission can better assess to reinvigorate the economy and the opportunity is not particular to the governance exercised over companies in Guernseys finance the UK.
The US, for example, has now made headway with its sector.
As the Company reports against the AIC Code of Corporate infrastructure procurement programme which has achieved broad Governance, it is also deemed to meet this Code.
The Company reports governance against the Association of The Group, through its Investment Adviser, is an active participant in Investment Companies the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the evolution of public policy and has a regular dialogue with various dated October 2010.
In September 2012, the Financial Reporting interest groups in both the public and private sectors.
Council issued a new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and in February 2013, the AIC published its updated AIC Code of A key part of the Investment Advisers role is to build and maintain Corporate Governance.
This new AIC code has been endorsed by the good open relationships with all of the stakeholders associated Financial Reporting Council and the Company will report governance contractually with the Groups projects, especially public sector against this revised code in the financial year ending March 2014, clients.
The Investment Advisers asset management team is heavily albeit the Company has been mindful of the amendments to the new focused on client engagement: resolving issues, seeking efficiencies AIC code in this Annual Report.
and or facilitating variations, which may include the provision of additional services or assets.
As part of good corporate governance, all four of the Directors offered themselves for re-election at the AGM held in July 2012 and Investor Communications were duly re-elected.
It is proposed to continue with this process of With the capitalisation of the Company exceeding 1.4bn and an all Directors seeking annual re-election, which is more regular than investor base of over 4,500 shareholders, the Board is acutely aware the Companys Articles require.
of the need to keep shareholders up to date with developments through regular engagement.
During the last 12 months, the At the AGM in July 2012 shareholders approved the Boards proposals Investment Adviser has strengthened its Investor Relations team to to adopt, substantially as presented, the recommendations of an provide greater coverage of existing shareholders and to cultivate independent consultant to increase the Directors remuneration in relationships with potential new investors in the UK and overseas.
line with companies of a similar size and complexity.
Inflationary increases, which were also part of the recommendations, have been The Companys Directors also make themselves available to meet endorsed by the Board for the year to 31 March 2014 and are subject with shareholders.
During the last year, I have met personally with to shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM in July.
representatives from some of our larger shareholders in order to promote an understanding of the Companys plans and to receive As mentioned in the Prospectus for the New Ordinary Shares issue in feedback.
The Board welcomes the opportunity to engage directly with March, the Board felt that given the growth in size and scope of the investors as a means of correlating and supplementing the regular Company in recent years, it would be beneficial to recruit at least one feedback received from the Investment Adviser and the Broker.
It would also facilitate succession planning as both John Hallam, the senior independent Director, and I have been The Board also takes a keen interest in the level and quality of the Directors for seven years.
information which the Company publishes both on the Company website and in reports and presentations.
Our intention is to remain Trust Associates were retained to evaluate potential candidates and at the forefront of disclosure and transparency for our asset class.
we are pleased to have been able to attract individuals of the calibre and experience of Ian Russell, CBE and Susie Farnon.
Ians January 2013 saw the formal introduction of the legislation proposed background as CFO and subsequently CEO of a major listed utility under the Retail Distribution Review RDR.
As expected, there has Scottish Power plc, together with Susies experience on regulatory, been no overnight change as most organisations involved in the governance and audit matters will be of considerable benefit to the distribution of financial products had been adapting to the proposed Company.
Ian and Susie were appointed with effect from 1 May 2013, changes during the prior year.
The expected levelling of the playing and like all the other Directors are offering themselves for re-election field, such that investment companies are not disadvantaged by the at the forthcoming AGM in July.
commissions paid to IFAs and other intermediaries on open-ended unit trust vehicles, is now taking place.
Self-selection and self-execution Following the introduction of a further fee taper agreed with the through trading platforms has begun to increase and, over the medium Investment Adviser last year, the Board believes the fee structure term, we expect larger, liquid stocks such as ours to benefit.
remains transparent, straightforward and competitive for the asset class.
The Board is also pleased to see the Investment Adviser further expand the team which services the Group, with an additional four hires.
The Group will also benefit from the expansion of the Investment Advisers global infrastructure team, and notes their opening of a new office in Sydney, Australia.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 7 Chairmans Statement continued Environment, Social and Governance Policies investments, worth over 100m, and this is a testament to its sector The Investment Adviser is a subscriber to the United Nations knowledge and wide network of industry relationships.
Its Policies for Responsible Investment and has established and reputation for diligently valuing new investments and executing the documented environmental, social and governance policies not just purchases in a timely and efficient manner underpins our success in for itself as Investment Adviser and Operator, but also for the Group, acquiring suitable assets.
its subsidiaries and the other project companies in which it has a stake.
The Company now operates within this framework and We remain cautious of investing in certain countries where, while the ensures, to the extent that it is able, that project companies adhere sovereign risk may have diminished, the risk-adjusted returns are to these polices and other relevant best practice.
Northern Europe, Canada and Australia remain firmly of interest, although aggressive pricing, or structural Outlook investment advantages accruing to domestic buyers, has meant that Infrastructure spending is becoming increasingly relevant around the assets in the UK generally offer a more compelling investment case world as other public policy measures reduce costs but often fall on a risk-adjusted basis.
short of delivering the necessary economic growth.
Against this backdrop, the investment community has developed a much greater The investment portfolio performed well last year and, with prior understanding of the dynamics of infrastructure as an asset class, year acquisitions adding value and greater diversification, we are and the Company is benefiting from its strategy of investing in lowerconfident that future cashflows are both strong and resilient.
risk, operational, social and transportation infrastructure projects with public sector counterparties.
Demand for the Companys shares The Company has now met its target distribution of 7.0p per share has enabled it to raise, at a premium to NAV per share, capital which and is satisfied that this distribution level can be sustained, with it has then successfully deployed by acquiring value-accretive some upside potential.
In conjunction with the Investment Adviser, investments.
The Group continues to look for further acquisitions in the Board has reviewed the performance and cash flow generation of the UK and overseas which meet its investment criteria and its stated the portfolio forecast for the current year and is setting a target total return objectives.
distribution for the year to 31 March 2014 of 7.1p per share.
With funds available from the recent New Ordinary Shares issue, the Group is well placed to make further acquisitions over the coming months from the healthy pipeline of opportunities that were identified at the time of the equity raising and which continue to arise.
Nevertheless, we will not compromise our strict investment criteria and our disciplined investment processes by overpaying for Graham Picken assets or acquiring those with structural or operational issues.
The Chairman Investment Adviser is currently in exclusive positions on five new 21 May 2013 8 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013
