China finished the year with record trade figures, Group Chairmans Statement thereby becoming the largest trading nation in the world, and it is fitting that the cover of this years Annual Report features the three cities where HSBCs trade credentials were established in 1865 and which are now playing key roles in the internationalisation of the renminbi, namely Shanghai, Hong Kong and London.
Performance in 2013 HSBCs performance in 2013 was reassuringly sound across our main business areas with good underlying momentum in areas of targeted investment.
Pre-tax profit on a reported basis was US$22.6 billion, 9% or US$1.9 billion higher than that reported in 2012.
On an underlying basis, profit before tax was 41% US$6.3 billion ahead of last year, driven primarily by welcome reductions in loan impairment charges as well as in fines and penalties and customer Against the welcome backdrop of generally redress costs.
improving economic conditions, we significantly These improvements flow in large part from the progressed the reshaping of HSBC during 2013. re-positioning of the Group and from enhanced risk The focus of these efforts was two-fold: alongside controls given effect over the last three years.
concentrating on capturing the high quality opportunities from and within our increasingly Earnings per share of US$0.84 compared with distinctive international network and diversified US$0.74 in 2012.
Shareholders equity stood at business model we strove to improve risk US$181.9 billion, some US$6.6 billion higher than at management and control through eliminating or the start of the year.
The Groups market capitalisation restructuring businesses with higher inherent risk rose over the year by US$13 billion and at characteristics.
The combination of our commitment US$207 billion exceeded shareholders equity by to implementing Global Standards, addressing US$25 billion or 14%.
regulatory changes and managing increased capital Continuing strong capital generation from discipline has driven a fundamental review of all operating results, together with the favourable effect aspects of our business.
I have no doubt that a stronger of the ongoing run-off of exit portfolios and non-core HSBC is emerging from this process.
The Group disposals, lifted our core tier 1 ratio to 13.6% Chief Executives Review gives greater detail of the compared with 12.3% at the start of the year.
progress made on this journey and draws out the key elements of HSBCs performance in 2013.
Taking account of our strong capital position If there is one thing to highlight from all the work and earnings performance, the Board has approved being done, it is the recognition of the benefits to our a fourth interim dividend in respect of 2013 of customers of the connectivity we can deliver across US$0.19 per share, as against US$0.18 per share in geographies and through our universal banking model.
The Board intends to maintain the first three As we reshape HSBC we shall not lose sight of the quarterly interim dividends in respect of 2014 at importance of these network benefits or of the fact US$0.10 per share.
Total dividends in respect of 2013 that this network has taken close to 150 years to build.
of US$0.49 per share were 9% or US$0.04 higher than in 2012, amounting to US$9.2 billion in Nowhere is this more evident than in our aggregate, an increase in pay-out of US$0.9 billion.
businesses facilitating cross-border investment and trade activities.
Our geographic presence, which Once again in 2013, the British Government straddles both the key developed Western economies increased the rate of the bank levy imposed on the and the most important markets in Asia, Latin consolidated balance sheets of UK domiciled banks America and the Middle East, adds both comparative and expanded the scope of the levy.
This increased the advantage and resilience to our competitive cost to HSBC in 2013 by US$321 million, taking the positioning.
levy for the year to US$904 million, of which US$484 million related to non-UK banking activity.
The impact of the levy represented US$0.05 per share 3 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Group Chairmans Statement which would otherwise have been available for Banking and Wealth Management around the distribution to shareholders or retained to strengthen customer, so that from the start of 2014 we have the capital base or support incremental growth.
removed the link between financial reward opportunity and product sales for substantially all of Global Standards and regulatory change our staff in our retail and wealth businesses.
We have also stepped up the Boards governance oversight In the current public policy debates about how best to over conduct and behavioural issues, and I deal with restore and expand economic growth, two themes this later.
critical to our industry stand out.
First, how to prevent another financial crisis and what tools are needed to Board changes minimise the cost to society should one occur.
Second, how to achieve a better balance between It is critical to all we do that we have the breadth and economic activity and a more equitable distribution of depth of experience on the Board necessary to provide the economic growth that is generated in the future.
As we refresh the Board to take account of planned retirements, we seek We are clear that through building the further to add skills and experience complementary to those resilience mandated by global regulatory changes and already on the Board in order to strengthen the range by implementing and adhering to global standards in of oversight competences within the Board.
Through all aspects of compliance, we can address both sets the Nomination Committee we look up to two years of objectives and build a more sustainable future for ahead to identify a pipeline of suitable candidates and HSBC.
Much has been done but there is much still I am hugely encouraged by the quality of individuals to do.
we are able to identify and attract.
The Group Chief Executives Review highlights We shall be saying goodbye to two long-serving the priority we give to this agenda.
It remains the Directors later this year.
Both John Coombe and key focus of the Boards governance of executive James Hughes-Hallett have given outstanding service performance.
In executing these responsibilities, the and commitment over their nine years on the Board Board is also acutely aware of its commitments under and its Committees.
They will not seek re-election at the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and associated the AGM in May.
regulatory undertakings entered into in December 2012.
As reported at our interim results, Michael In his time on the Board, in addition to his Cherkasky, the Monitor appointed to evaluate and measured contributions to Board discussions, John has report upon the effectiveness of the Groups AML and brought a wealth of business and financial experience sanctions compliance function and HSBCs progress and expertise to the Group Audit Committee, which in meeting its remedial obligations, commenced his latterly he chaired, and to the Group Risk and work in July last year.
The Board, both directly and Remuneration Committees.
In these roles he has through its Financial System Vulnerabilities taken on a considerable workload and critical Committee, has established a good working responsibilities throughout periods of significant relationship with the Monitor in order to support him economic and market uncertainty and major and his team in the execution of their assignment.
Upon his retirement it is proposed that John will be succeeded in his role as Chair of the Responding to heightened standards Group Audit Committee by Renato Fassbind.
Sustainable success in banking is founded upon With his deep experience of managing a broad meeting the expectations of society.
Fundamentally, range of international businesses, notably in the Far this means delivering transparent and fair outcomes to East, James has brought a businessmans perspective our customers.
It also means avoiding any perception to the Board as well as detailed knowledge of both of self-interest by ensuring there is a proper division Hong Kong and mainland China.
James has served of value between providers and consumers of with distinction on the Group Audit, Risk, Corporate financial products and services.
While regulatory Sustainability and Nomination Committees.
changes seek to address the framework supporting On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I these outcomes, responsibility and accountability rest want to take this opportunity to acknowledge their with the industry itself, and ultimately with the contribution to HSBC and record our appreciation and management and boards of individual institutions.
We gratitude for their long and distinguished periods of understand this and strive to be seen as proactively service.
We made good progress in 2013 in this regard.
In particular, we On 21 February we announced the appointment redesigned the compensation frameworks in Retail of a new Director to the Board.
4 Kathleen Casey, a former Commissioner of the First, trade.
HSBC was founded on financing US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, trade and investment flows.
By 2050 trade and capital will join the Board as an independent non-executive flows between Asia, the Middle East and Latin Director with effect from 1 March 2014.
She will America, in which we are well represented, could become a member of the Group Audit Committee and increase tenfold.
The internationalisation of the the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee.
renminbi, where HSBC is already the leading international bank, will amplify these opportunities.
Kathleen served as an SEC Commissioner from 2006 to 2011, acting as the regulators principal Second, the worlds population is ageing, representative in multilateral and bilateral regulatory necessitating considerably greater privately funded dialogues including with the G-20 Financial Stability retirement saving.
HSBCs research shows that Board and the International Organisation of Securities globally some 48% of people have never saved for Commissions.
Before being appointed Commissioner, retirement and that 56% admit they are not preparing Kathleen spent 13 years on Capitol Hill, holding adequately.
various positions including Staff Director and Counsel Third, as the worlds population expands there is of the United States Senate Committee on Banking, an urgent need to fund the technology and Housing and Urban Affairs 2003-2006. infrastructure investment that will deliver the energy, Kathleen brings to the Board a wealth of water and food needed to support the extra two billion experience of financial services regulation gained people predicted to be living by 2050. though public service at a key time in the regulatory Fourth, we need to invest to bring to our evolution of the sector.
Her skills will complement customers the benefits available through smarter well the diverse background and experience of the digital technology and richer data.
The above represent only some of the foreseeable Governance changes changes to which banking needs to respond in order to enable our customers better to meet their financial Recognising the benefits to be had from reinforcing needs and aspirations.
the links between our major subsidiary boards and HSBC Holdings, the Board invited Rona Fairhead to The opportunities are clear: HSBCs commitment extend her term of service on the Board and take on to be a trusted partner in the delivery of these the Chairmanship of HSBC North America Holdings opportunities lies at the heart of our strategy.
The Board was delighted when she accepted this ability to succeed lies in the strength and range of our invitation, taking on her new role with effect from the networks and our universal banking model.
The rest start of this year.
of this Strategic Report covers the detail of that strategy.
Finally, the Board considered in depth the conclusions and recommendations of the Finally, what we have achieved in 2013 and what Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards we plan to do rests upon the dedication and on conduct and behaviour in banks and concluded that commitment of our employees, the continuing support the Board should expand and enhance its oversight of of our customers, counterparties and shareholders, the these areas.
Accordingly, the Board has established a trust of our regulators and public confidence more new Committee, the Conduct and Values Committee, generally.
On behalf of the Board, I want to take this into which will be folded much of what was done opportunity to thank our staff for all their efforts and historically in the Group Corporate Sustainability their continuing loyalty to HSBC, and to commit to Committee.
I am delighted to report that Rachel those we serve and those who regulate us that we are Lomax has agreed to chair this new committee.
focused on continuing to earn their trust and deserve Further details of its terms of reference and their confidence in HSBC.
membership are set out on page 362.
Looking forward As well as addressing the regulatory and governance challenges we face, it is essential to keep a sense of perspective and be able to focus on the significant D J Flint, Group Chairman opportunities arising from successful execution of our 24 February 2014 strategy.
Let me outline four by way of illustration.
5 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
