British American Tobacco 03 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Chairmans introduction I am confident that the Group is positioned to continue to deliver strong profit and dividend growth for many years to come.
Richard Burrows Chairman Strong growth Our efforts in these areas are discussed within this Strategic Report and elsewhere in our Annual Report, but we have also published The Group has achieved another year of strong earnings and market a separate Sustainability Summary report called Value Shared.
share growth, despite difficult trading conditions in some parts of This sits alongside the two Sustainability Focus reports we published the world and unfavourable currency headwinds.
Industry volumes in 2013, covering harm reduction and acting with integrity.
You can continued to decline but the pricing environment remained strong.
download all three of these reports from our corporate website at Good profit growth and a focus on asset management have also www.
contributed to a continued improvement in return on capital employed, as detailed in our Financial Review.
What guides us It is to the great credit of our people, our management team and Our Guiding Principles have long been at the core of our culture.
our Chief Executive, Nicandro Durante, that the business continues They guide our behaviour and in this Strategic Report we describe to deliver such strong results.
The Group adopted a new vision and how they align with our new vision.
The Principles also underpin refocused strategy in 2013 and this has been embedded across the ourapproach to good corporate governance, as I have set out organisation, further sharpening our global alignment.
We remain inmyintroduction to this years Governance section in the focused on investing in our tobacco business but recognise DirectorsReport.
that beyond tobacco there are opportunities in the emerging Board changes next-generation product category.
May I thank all of our Board members for their contributions Nicandros overview of business performance in this Report describes during 2013.
I am pleased to report that we maintain our strong how our strategy guides our global commercial operations and record on Board diversity, both in gender and in the wide range the roles new markets and new product categories will play in ofbackgrounds and nationalities represented among our Directors.
My thanks go to Anthony Ruys, who will stand down as a This success continues to deliver for our shareholders and is reflected Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of this years AGM in an increase of adjusted diluted earnings per share for 2013 to havingserved for eight years on your Board.
216.6p, an increase of 6% on last year, or 10% on a constant currency basis.
Also to John Daly, who stepped down as Chief Operating Officer atthe end of December to focus on the transitioning of key projects The Board has recommended a final dividend of 97.4p per share, and initiatives in early 2014.
He will retire from the Board in April which will be paid on 8 May 2014 to shareholders on the register 2014.
John has held many senior management roles during his at14 March 2014.
This takes the total dividend for 2013 to 142.4p, 19year career with British American Tobacco.
He will be missed by an increase of 6% on 2012. colleagues throughout the organisation and I join them in wishing him well for his retirement.
Our share buy-back programme continued in 2013.
Between the beginning of March and the end of December 2013, almost I am also delighted to welcome Savio Kwan, who joined our Board 44 million shares were repurchased at a value of 1.5 billion, as a Non-Executive Director in January 2014.
Savio brings us his excluding transaction costs.
The Board has agreed a further profound commercial approach, a clear international orientation and 1.5 billion share buy-back programme for 2014. his significant business experience of Greater China and Asia, further strengthening British American Tobacco and the Board.
External recognition Im very pleased to report that, for the 12th successive year, Strong position British American Tobacco was selected in the 2013 Dow While 2013 has been a successful year, it has been a tough one Jones Sustainability Index, where we remain industry leader.
As for 2014 and beyond, I know our management team and This recognises our continued achievements in our social and our people are ready to meet the challenges ahead and to take environmental performance.
advantage of new and existing opportunities.
I am confident that the Group is positioned to continue to deliver strong profit and As part of the refocusing of our Group strategy, we put an even dividend growth for many years to come.
greater emphasis on sustainability this year.
We recognise that as a major international business we have responsibilities, from Richard Burrows developing a new range of less harmful products and helping Chairman individuals make more informed choices, to supporting rural communities in the developing world.
