Governance Chairmans statement Committed to strong oversight Charles Gregson As a board, we continue to demonstrate our continuing commitment to strong oversight and, to ensure such focus, we have established a Chairman Governance Committee with responsibility for the governance framework on a global basis.
Due to the continuing increase in responsibilities of audit and risk committees, the board decided to separate these responsibilities and form a separate Audit Committee and a Risk Committee.
This structure became effective from 1 April 2012.
The board considers that it has complied with the principles and provisions of the Code throughout the year.
In this statement, and the corporate governance statement that follows, we report on how On behalf of the board, I am pleased to we have complied with the Code.
introduce ICAPs corporate governance report.
Leadership There rightly continues to be a focus on My principal responsibilities as Chairman are to lead the board and to ensure its effectiveness.
To this end, the boards time has been corporate governance from across a broad prioritised to focus as much as possible on activities which we spectrum of the business world and this has consider central to proper oversight.
For the year to March 2013, resulted in various consultations and the these activities included approval of the Groups strategy, review of its delivery and development of the risk management structure.
introduction of new regulations across our In light of trading conditions in the year, the board supported the business operations.
changes to the Groups management structure aligned to changes in our business divisions, including the creation of a Global Broking business and the implementation of a cost saving programme.
We also spent time reviewing ICAPs strategic response to developments in the regulatory and competitive environment and being briefed on the various projects underway to deliver on this strategy.
ICAP plc 52 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Effectiveness Remuneration Throughout the year, all your non-executive directors have The board supports the principle that levels of remuneration should contributed extensively to the business of the board and be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate ICAPs employees.
The demonstrated a high level of involvement in the activities of the remuneration report further details the Groups policy on executive Group.
They continue to engage with the management teams across remuneration and how these policies were implemented during the the global businesses and have had opportunities to challenge year to reflect the financial performance of the Group.
Significant performance and the control framework within each business.
changes were introduced to the bonus scheme for this reporting The boards knowledge and understanding of the views of major year following consultation with shareholders and the remuneration investors and stakeholders, the markets in which the Group operates report describes the implementation of these changes and their and the technology issues facing the Group were all positively rated impact on executive remuneration for this year.
by the respondents to this years board effectiveness review which Relations with shareholders was undertaken by Lintstock, an external facilitator.
The executive directors, Robert Standing, as chairman of the The results of the review also indicated that board meetings were Remuneration Committee, and I have met with representatives of effective in encouraging candid discussion and critical thinking and our major shareholders during the year.
As a board we are the boards use of the competencies of the non-executive directors committed to open dialogue with all our shareholders and we was rated highly.
The board is committed to continuous improvement welcome the opportunity this engagement offers.
The corporate and one of its priorities for 2013 14 is to review its size and governance statement contains further detail as to the topics composition, taking into account the increased diversity of ICAPs discussed, these included the impact of regulatory change on the business, to ensure that the board has an appropriate mix of business and the cost saving programme.
experience to achieve the Groups strategic goals.
Regulatory focus Following his appointment as chairman of United Overseas Bank Ltd, Hsieh Fu Hua will not be standing for re-election at the annual ICAP has regular contact and maintains a strong and transparent general meeting in July 2013.
On behalf of the board, I would like to relationship with the FCA, its lead regulator.
Globally, ICAP operates thank him for his valuable contribution since his appointment in in many jurisdictions and is regulated by multiple financial regulators, 2011. many of whom are implementing regulatory change which impacts both ICAP and its customers.
ICAP takes a proactive approach to In accordance with the Code, all other directors will be offering assessing developments and working with and, where appropriate, themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting in July lobbying relevant parties in order to ensure that the Groups leading 2013.
The board has agreed that all directors are qualified to stand position in the wholesale financial markets is understood.
for re-election and that the non-executive directors remain independent.
As a board we will continue, particularly in light of external and regulatory developments, to ensure that the corporate governance Further discussion on the leadership and effectiveness of the board is framework is robust and supports the ICAP Group.
detailed on pages 54 to 57 of the corporate governance statement.
Accountability Charles Gregson The business review sets out and describes the Groups principal Chairman business activities, the performance of the business during the year and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
The board is accountable for risk and is responsible for the oversight of the risk management process.
As much of this oversight is delegated to the Audit and Risk Committees, details of the governance around these processes are set out on pages 58 to 63 of the corporate governance statement.
The directors statement of responsibilities for the preparation of the Annual Report and the going concern statement can be found on page 67.
