Chairmans statement cHAIRmANS STATEmENT I am pleased to report another year of record profitability The Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy that for the Group, a significant achievement given the reflects the long-term earnings and cash flow potential of particularly challenging trading environment in the first the Group.
Our dividend payout target is in the region of half of the year.
While our revenue decreased by 1% to 361.9 million REGulATIoN 2012: 366.8 million, our diluted earnings per share As I have mentioned in previous statements, IG operates increased by 3.4% to 38.80 pence per share 2012: 37.54 in highly regulated financial markets.
Our policy is to pence per share, thanks primarily to tight expense control ensure we remain in compliance with all relevant regulatory and materially lower employee variable compensation.
and legal obligations and to maintain collaborative relationships with the relevant authorities.
We have continued to develop our business through the opening of new offices in Ireland and Norway, together Client money continues to be one area of particular with ongoing investment in our brand and technology to regulatory focus.
Our Client Money Committee, under the meet customer demand, particularly in mobile delivery and chairmanship of Christopher Hill, has continued to pursue leading-edge platform functionality.
Our risk management best practice, through constant review of processes and capabilities and strict credit policies have continued controls and investment in technology, to ensure we meet to perform well, resulting once again in daily revenue all the relevant requirements, while reducing the amount of remaining positive with a very low level of bad debts.
human intervention needed in a business of IGs complexity.
Your Board remains committed to driving further growth in the business and we are presently looking at several We will be spending time addressing new Financial interesting strategic initiatives to achieve this.
Conduct Authority FCA initiatives, including conduct risk, cultural risk and the increasingly widely recognised IG strives to conduct its business with integrity and in a problem of cyber-attacks.
way that delivers fair outcomes for its customers.
While it is always possible to make mistakes, if we are accused BoARD EvAluATIoN AND comPoSITIoN unjustly of inappropriate practices endangering the strong The Board undertook a full evaluation under the reputation we have worked hard to earn, we will defend guidance of Dr Tracy Long in our previous financial year: ourselves vigorously.
Our recent victory in the High Court consequently it was felt appropriate to conduct an internal in a case which arose from the collapse of Echelon Wealth review this year under the guidance of our Company Management a few years ago is testament to this.
I am pleased to say that the outcome of this dismissal of the case the plaintiffs chose not to appeal review was satisfactory but also produced some insights and we also recovered an acceptable amount of our costs.
as to how we can improve our processes.
We also successfully won other legal victories, including the recovery of some substantial historic debts this year.
I am particularly grateful to our legal team for bringing all these matters to a very satisfactory conclusion for our business and our shareholders.
DIvIDEND At the forthcoming AGM your Board will recommend a final ordinary dividend of 17.50 pence per share.
This will bring the total ordinary dividend for the year to 23.25 pence per share, an increase of 3.3% on the prior year.
The Board is pleased to be able to recommend this level of payout at the end of a challenging year.
04 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 05 Chairmans statement cHAIRmANS STATEmENT continued I am pleased to welcome Sam Tymms to our Board to This resulted in the proposal that we are putting before replace Lord David Currie, who had to retire from the Board shareholders at our forthcoming AGM and which we last October to take on his new role as Chairman of the believe achieves our objectives and reflect the Financial Competition and Markets Authority.
Sam is a Managing Conduct Authoritys remuneration principles.
Director at Promontory, a leading strategy, risk management and regulatory compliance consulting firm, focusing coNcluSIoN primarily on the financial services industry.
Her expertise is This has been a challenging year for IG.
Given the already proving extremely helpful to the Board, particularly extremely difficult trading environment in the first half of during a period of increasing regulatory focus.
The Board the year, I believe management responded rapidly and wishes to thank David Currie for his contribution to the appropriately with actions to reduce operating costs, while business and to wish him every success in his new role.
still managing to reap the benefits of a more supportive second half and ultimately delivering earnings growth.
Martin Jackson, our Chairman of the Audit Committee, and I will have completed our nine years of service with IG next We remain committed to delivering superior technology, year: consequently we will be stepping down from the IG innovative products and the best trading experience, putting Board at the AGM in October 2014.
We are presently at an the needs of our customers at the forefront of everything we advanced stage of finding a successor to Martin, who will do.
If we continue to do this successfully, I strongly believe join the Board as soon as possible to build up the relevant IG will prosper in a world where constant changes in the knowledge of IG and the workings of the Audit Committee economic backdrop on the road to recovery, both positive and Board prior to Martins retirement.
The Board has and negative, will continue to create opportunities for our agreed that our Senior Independent Director, Roger Yates, clients to participate in financial markets.
will commence a search for a new Chairman in September As always, none of this could have been achieved without with the objective of having the candidate on our Board by the commitment of all our employees.
This has been March 2014 to ensure a smooth handover by our AGM.
particularly the case this year, with a disappointing first It is again our intention this year to put every Board half-year creating the need to manage costs carefully, and Director up for re-election at the AGM, in compliance the strong second half when the external backdrop was with paragraph B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance much more supportive.
Our colleagues have been resolute Code.
In the case of Sam Tymms, this will be the first throughout the year and responded extremely well to opportunity for election following her appointment as the challenges that the markets and competition have a Director in May 2013.
All other Directors are being presented.
My fellow Directors and I would like to express put forward for re-election.
our sincere thanks to them for their personal contributions to the Groups success this year.
REmuNERATIoN The Remuneration Committee, under the Chairmanship of Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, has reviewed the remuneration for senior management during the past year.
The Committee has decided to undertake a complete Jonathan Davie review of our executive compensation, including changing Chairman our external advisors.
This decision was taken to reflect a realistic view of the medium-term growth prospects of 23 July 2013 IG and the need to retain and motivate our management team, who have produced outstanding results for shareholders in the past few years.
To this end Roger and I have spent time with our leading shareholders to seek their views on the design of a remuneration package which aligns management with shareholders interests and incentivises them competitively for the long term.
06 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 07
