Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 38 45 46 76 Annual Report 2013 77 112 Governance: 47 Chairmans introduction presenting a balanced and understandable uK Corporate Governance Code assessment of the Companys position and The Group recognises, and is committed to, the prospects to the shareholders through the highest standards of corporate governance.
Other Chairmans and Chief Executives statement, than on one occasion, throughout the year ended theBusiness review, the Financial review and 31 march 2013, the Group has been in compliance thefinancial statements: with the provisions of the uK Corporate Governance appointments to the Board and Executive Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Justin Dowley Committee: Council.
The event of non-compliance with the Code Chairman capital expenditure decisions: and occurred at a meeting of the Audit and Risk Committee changes in employee incentive schemes.
in may 2012, when due to the unavoidable absence of one of the members of thatCommittee, a meeting At each Board meeting there is a full financial and was held with only twomembers of the Committee in business review which includes the comparison of attendance ratherthan three.
The two Non Executive performance to date against the Boards previously Directors subsequently appointed during the year approved annual budget.
have been made members of that Committee such Each Board member receives a comprehensive that it hasamembership of four, and at all future Board pack at least five days prior to each meeting meetings at least three of the members will be which incorporates a formal agenda together with inattendance.
supporting papers for items to be discussed at Details on how we have applied the Principles themeeting.
Further information is obtained by ofthe Code can be found in this Corporate theBoard from the managing Directors and other Governance section and also in the Remuneration relevant members of senior management, as the report on pages 56 to 67.
A copy of the Code Board, particularly its Non Executive Directors, ispublicly available on the Financial Reporting considers appropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take The Boards responsibilities independent professional advice at the Companys andprocesses expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Theappointment removal of the Company Secretary The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the would be a matter for the Board.
overall management of the Group.
The Boards main The Board appreciates the importance of the roles are to provide leadership of the Group within continued professional development of the Directors.
aframework of prudent and effective controls which Those Non Executive Directors who have joined enable risk to be assessed and managed and to during the year have taken part in an induction ensure that the necessary financial and human process to gain an understanding on the Groups resources are in place for the Company to meet business, including briefings, training sessions and itsobjectives and thus increase shareholder value.
one-on-one meetings with the Executive Directors There is a formal schedule of matters reserved and a number of other senior employees.
forBoard approval, which include: The Non Executive Directors, at least annually, hold meetings in the absence of the managing approval of the Groups overall business strategy, Directors and, separately, in the absence of the planning and annual budget: Chairman.
Each Non Executive Director has an assessment of internal controls and appointment letter with the Company and their riskmanagement: appointments are reviewed periodically.
approval of the Groups half year and annual financial statements and dividend policy:
