Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Annual Report 2013 Chairmans statement The fact that Sky has continued to outperform over a period when household budgets have been under sustained pressure is testament to the robustness of our customer-focused strategy and the outstanding way in which management has executed against that strategy.
While the economic climate remains uncertain, the Board is confident that the Company is well placed with a clear plan to deliver future growth and value creation for shareholders.
As Sky has become more successful as a business, its impact on our industry and the wider UK economy has grown.
For example, we are the biggest commercial supporter of the UK creative industries, with a commitment to grow our annual spend on UK production to 600 million by 2014.
Sky also makes a significant and growing contribution to the wider UK economy, contributing over 5.9 billion to GDP and 2013 has been a year of significant progress supporting 121,000 jobs.
Building on our consistent track Alongside this, Skys position as a leading broadcaster in millions of record of growth, the Company continued to homes allows us to reach beyond our business to inspire people to make a positive difference.
A good example is Sky Sports Living for deliver a strong performance, both Sport, our schools initiative that uses sports stars and skills to boost operationally and financially.
confidence and improve life skills in young people.
In its tenth year, the initiative reaches one third of all secondary schools in Britain and has just launched in Ireland.
We are proud of the work that we do in this area and are committed to doing more in the future.
Over the past year, there have been a number of changes to the Board.
Jacques Nasser, Tom Mockridge and Lord Wilson of Dinton all stepped down in the course of the year.
On behalf of the entire Board, I would like to thank all of them for the considerable contribution they have made to Sky over many years.
They have been replaced by Dave Lewis, President, Personal Care for Unilever, who joined the Board in November: Chase Carey, President and Chief Operating Officer of 21st Century Fox who joined the Board in January: and Andy Sukawaty, the Executive Chairman of Inmarsat, who joined us in June.
I am also delighted that Adine Grate, an experienced finance and investment professional, joined the Board on 17 July.
After a period of change, I am confident that the Board reflects the right blend of skills and experience to guide the Company in the best interests of shareholders.
Finally, in light of the Companys strong performance, the Board proposes an 18% increase in the full-year dividend to 30.0 pence, the ninth consecutive year of growth.
We also intend to seek shareholder approval for a further 500 million of share repurchases.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank shareholders for their continued support and all of our 24,000 colleagues at Sky for their commitment and their invaluable contribution to another excellent year for the business.
Nick Ferguson, CBE Chairman 25 July 2013 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 3
