Chairmans Letter Dear Shareholders, This is my first letter to shareholders since taking over the Secondary Market Demand for secondary market assets in our asset class continued chairmanship of the Company on 1 January 2014.
I would like to to be very strong in 2013.
We have taken advantage of this since express my sincere thanks to my predecessor, Keith Dorrian, who has chaired the Company since its inception and has presided over the end of the year by selling minority stakes we held in two the successful growth and development of the Company from a educational infrastructure assets.
These were stakes where we 300 million company at Initial Public Offering IPO in 2006, to could see no realistic possibility of increasing our holding to its current c. 1 billion market capitalisation today.
Keith has been majority ownership or seeing any other long-term strategic value a strong and effective chairman and he leaves the Company in a in retaining.
The price at which these assets were sold was well in excess of the I look forward with confidence to taking on this important role price paid on acquisition in 2011 and offered a significant and working alongside my fellow Directors and the Investment premium to the Companys target rate of return.
It is also Advisor to take the business to its next stage of growth and to indicative of our active approach to the management of the continue to deliver consistent long-term value to shareholders.
Companys investments to achieve attractive risk adjusted returns.
While the Company does not expect to trade assets regularly, Dividend Growth In its seven year history the Company has gained a reputation for preferring instead to retain the long-term income generation consistent dividend per share growth of at least 2.5% per annum.
potential of its holdings, these secondary market pricing levels It is pleasing to note that 2013 was another year of robust validate the increased popularity and attractions of the asset class performance by the Company underpinned by highly predictable in which the Company is invested.
Operational Performance The Board remain focused on the continuing ability of the The operational performance of the Companys portfolio Company to grow fully covered cash dividends over the next few continues to be very strong.
During the year we have focused on years and we are confident that this can be achieved.
We have delivering our expected returns, managing our public sector therefore published a minimum dividend target of 6.30 pence per customer relationships, enhancing the investments through share and 6.45 pence per share for 2014 and 2015 respectively, or contract variations requested by our public sector clients and a minimum average increase of c. 2.5% per annum, to give managing the build-out of assets in construction.
We consider that additional guidance to shareholders as to our intentions in the control over the operational performance of investments is vital future.
as strong asset-level relationships with public sector clients are a key factor in both protecting our reputation and safeguarding Investment Activity and Capital Growth investment performance.
The Company continues to add to its portfolio in a measured way.
We are confident that this will continue to improve the quality The Company continues to benefit from our relationship with and resilience of the portfolio to deliver consistent and Amber in this respect, particularly for the majority of investments predictable returns to shareholders.
All investments made over where Amber is responsible for the detailed day-to-day delivery of the past 15 months have continued to add robustness to the management services and relationships with our public sector Companys projected cash flows and improve the Companys clients.
We believe our approach is an important point of quality of earnings.
This will continue to be the case.
The differentiation compared to other investment vehicles in the Company continues to differentiate itself in its approach to new sector where responsibility for such asset level management investments, generally preferring to acquire investments offactivity is often outsourced to construction facilities management market and by exercising pre-emption rights in existing contractor parties.
Such parties are generally not investors and investments, via the origination expertise of its Investment hence, without a long-term investors view, quality control and Advisor, Amber Fund Management Limited Amber.
More alignment of interest, are much harder to maintain.
recently secondary market auctions for infrastructure assets have typically offered us less attractive returns as competition for these investments has become more widespread.
While we will continue to participate in auctions where we see good value opportunities, we are confident that our preference for sourcing new investments off market will continue to create demonstrably higher value for shareholders in the long term.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 7 Chairmans Letter continued Amendments to Management Arrangements In recognition that the Companys performance had exceeded the The Company has also voluntarily chosen to adopt new narrative Benchmark Return described in the Investment Advisory reporting guidance as incorporated within the UK Companies Act Agreement IAA, an incentive fee of 11 million was due to the 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 to Investment Advisor during the year taken at their election as 60% provide improved transparency and linkage of various sections of the Annual Report and to reflect the fair, balanced and scrip and 40% cash.
During the summer, both the Board and understandable principals of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Amber recognised that the continued existence of an incentive fee mechanism in the Companys investment advisory arrangements As a result, we have taken the opportunity to significantly risked damage to long-term investor value.
Following consultation restructure the Annual Report and now incorporate much of the between the Company and a number of its shareholders, the Board information that was previously presented as the Investment took the decision to amend the IAA to remove the performance fee Advisors Report in the new, more comprehensive Strategic Report mechanism in its entirety, further reduce management fees as that outlines the Companys investment strategy, operating model assets are grown, and at the same time strengthen its supervision and, current performance including key performance indicators rights over Amber.
As part of these arrangements, which came together with principal risks and uncertainties.
into effect on 1 July 2013, the term of the investment advisory Corporate Governance agreement reverted to that which applied at the time of the During the year, and in anticipation of Keith Dorrians decision not Companys establishment a ten year fixed term with a five year to seek re-election at the next Annual General Meeting, John Stares notice period.
More details can be found within the Strategic was appointed as an additional Director to the Board.
Company will benefit from Johns substantial experience as a nonexecutive director at Terra Firma and prior to that over 30 years These new arrangements were, as a package, very much in the interests of investors and were overwhelmingly supported by business experience including management consulting at investors at the Extraordinary General Meeting held in September Accenture.
Nevertheless the way in which these changes were The Board greatly values direct feedback from investors and, in communicated could, in hindsight, have been improved.
We hope addition to the regular investor relations activities undertaken by to have learned from that experience in respect of our dealings the Investment Advisor throughout the year, it has actively with investors in future.
During the consultation process around the changes to the Investment Advisory Agreement, noted above, Changes to Presentation of Results and Report For the year ending 31 December 2013, our financial statements independent members of the Board met with over half of the Companys shareholders by value in locations across the UK.
The have a new look following the early adoption of new accounting Board also met with a cross-section of investors and analysts at our standards which require investment companies to present their financial statements on an investment basis.
We believe that this Liverpool Library investor day held in April prior to the official will significantly assist investors by enabling greater consistency opening of this new PFI facility.
We are keen to maintain this between the presentation of the audited financial statements and ongoing dialogue.
the key investment metrics used by management and Outlook shareholders.
The IFRS balance sheet is now consistent with the The outlook for 2014 is promising.
We continue to have a high Companys published net asset value, and the income statement degree of confidence in the performance of the portfolio as well as with net investment returns achieved in the period.
the Companys ability to generate increasing dividends in line with Importantly, these changes have had no impact on overall portfolio published expectations.
Despite the increased competition and reduced pipeline of opportunities in some core markets, we valuation.
However, there have been minor changes to the continue to have visibility of a number of attractive investment macroeconomic assumptions and the way in which the discount opportunities that, when executed, will be expected to strengthen rates used to value our portfolio are presented: we have adapted the Companys portfolio further.
We will therefore continue to be our approach and present both an equity risk capital average selective in our acquisitions to ensure they bring real benefits to discount rate and equity risk capital plus senior debt investment average discount rate to provide more detail on the composition of shareholders.
Further details are provided within the Outlook the Companys portfolio and recognise more clearly the reduced section of the Strategic Report.
risk that senior debt investments offer the Company.
More I thank all shareholders for their support of the Company in 2013 information is provided on page 24 of the Strategic Report.
and look forward to continuing to reward them in 2014. INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 8
