Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT of our commitment to high standards of customer service.
This is a clear indication that we offer products and services that our customers value.
People I want to express my gratitude to all our agents and employees for their hard work and dedication.
Our people are central to our success and the improvement in our engagement survey scores Christopher Rodrigues demonstrates our teams commitment to the Chairman sustainable growth of our business.
We are committed to diversity in its broadest sense and recognise its importance at all levels of the Company as well as the Board.
More information A signi cant year on diversity in our business can be found on 2013 was a signi cant year for IPF, building on the pages 13 and 50. foundations of our Strategy for Growth which were We already have a share save scheme for our UK laid down in 2012.
Our strategy is now embedded employees and, subject to shareholder approval at across the Group and building momentum.
our AGM, we will implement a new all-employee share We delivered a strong trading performance across plan that will give employees in our international all of our markets, reinforcing our belief in our markets the opportunity to invest in the business and strategic direction.
I am delighted to see the bene t from our success.
levels of growth achieved and record pro t before tax and exceptional items of 118.1 million.
Board changes We made good progress introducing a wider range During the year we looked to strengthen our of products to our customers, for which we have executive team to support the delivery of our growth seen strong demand, and entered two new markets.
I am delighted to welcome Adrian Gardner The value of these achievements is demonstrated in who joined the Board as Chief Financial Of cer in higher customer numbers, increased credit issued January 2014.
Adrian has spent more than a decade and improved customer retention.
as CFO across multiple sectors and brings with him a wealth of experience and proven business acumen.
A key strategic aim is to deliver greater value to our David Broadbent, who served as Finance Director shareholders and I am particularly pleased we since the Company was listed on the London Stock were able to undertake our second share buyback Exchange in 2007, has taken on the newly created programme, whilst at the same time increasing the role of Chief Commercial Of cer.
Davids unrivalled dividend by 20% to 9.3 pence per share.
knowledge of the business will help us to transform Ensuring a sustainable business our already successful business into one that is ready for the challenges and opportunities of tomorrow.
This year the Board has paid close attention to increased levels of competition from short-term loan I would also like to welcome Cathryn Riley who and other home credit companies, particularly in joined the Board as non-executive director in Poland and the Czech Republic.
Cathryn has valuable experience model will remain at the core of our business for the of major transformation programmes and the foreseeable future and we are investing to make sure implementation of new distribution channels.
it remains competitive through our global change John Lorimer resigned from the Board as nonprogramme.
We are also exploring digital solutions that executive director in April 2013 and I would like could provide incremental opportunities for growth in to thank him for his valued contribution to our the medium term.
business over the past three years.
During the year we saw increased regulatory debate in Outlook our European markets.
We seek open and constructive We are committed to working in partnership with our dialogue with regulators and politicians to ensure they customers, employees and agents as well as our understand the value of our home credit offer to our shareholders.
We enter 2014 with strong momentum, customers.
We welcome good regulation that protects a talented leadership team and a real desire to grow customers from those who do not have the customers and improve our business.
The apparent change of perspective on our pricing model by the Polish regulator contradicts legal opinion we have sought and we have appealed its decision.
We continue to believe our approach to pricing is both fair and transparent for all our customers.
The many awards we have won in 2013 are also external recognition Christopher Rodrigues Chairman 8 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
