business review chairmans statement In July, we finally received clearance from the Competition Dear Shareholder Commission for the merger with AG Barr plc to take place.
However, The last twelve months have been the most by then our fortunes had changed so substantially that we were unable to agree new mutually acceptable terms.
The board decided eventful in Britvics time as a public company.
that a future independent of AG Barr plc, implementing the new We began the year having agreed an all-share teams plans, was preferable to merging on the terms that were equity merger with AG Barr plc.
the year remaining independent, with a new We have seen the progress we have made reflected in strong share price growth, with the share price recovering from a low of Chief Executive Officer, Simon Litherland, 249p at the time of the Fruit Shoot recall to end the year at 575p.
at the helm, with a new strategy and a Britvic has undergone significant change in the past year and the significant turnaround in our share price board and I have been hugely impressed by the commitment of the Britvic team, at what has been a challenging time for our performance.
Group EBIT grew by 18.8% on employees.
We have every confidence in the future prospects of a constant currency basis to 135m and the business and believe that, under Simons leadership, we will adjusted earnings per share rebounded by see sustainable profit growth and the creation of meaningful shareholder value in the coming years.
Reflecting this confidence and the continued strong cash generation, The merger with AG Barr plc was conceived against the backdrop we are proposing a final dividend of 13.0p pence per share, an of the Fruit Shoot recall of July last year, which cost the company increase on the previous year of 4.8%, making the full year increase 25m.
The combination of Britvic and AG Barr plc and the associated in the dividend 4%.
synergies was welcomed by our shareholders, who overwhelming voted in favour of the merger.
As part of the boards on-going development and desire to support the company in executing the new strategy, I can report that the However, the proposed deal lapsed in February of this year, when board is seeking to make further changes to its composition.
During the Office of Fair Trading referred the deal to the Competition the next 12 to 18 months two of our Non-Executive Directors, Bob Commission.
With the OFT referral, Paul Moody, our Chief Executive Ivell and Michael Shallow, move closer to a nine year tenure from at the time, retired from Britvic.
Paul had spent some 16 years with the date of their first election by shareholders in 2007 and therefore the business, including seven years on the board, during which the end of their term of office.
More details in relation to the boards time the company grew substantially and overall delivered succession plans are set out in the Corporate Governance Report significant shareholder value.
On behalf of the board, I would like on page 35.
As in previous years, all of our directors will retire at to thank Paul for the dedication and professionalism he showed the AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
during his tenure and wish him all the best for the future.
The AGM will be held at 11am on Wednesday, 29 January 2014 Simultaneously to Pauls departure, the board appointed Simon at Nomura, 1 Angel Lane, London EC4R 3AB and I look forward Litherland as our new Chief Executive Officer.
Simon had joined us to seeing you there.
the previous year, as part of our succession planning, from Diageo plc and had spent a busy year heading up our GB business.
With the outcome of the merger unknown whilst the Competition Commission carried out their investigation, Simon set about defining a new strategy and organisational model for Britvic, with Gerald Corbett a net investment of 40m underpinning annual costs saving of Chairman 30m by 2016.
The response to this new strategy, which was shared at our interim results in May, has been overwhelmingly positive.
With a new strategy and leadership team in place, we have seen a turnaround in the fortunes of the business.
Fruit Shoot has enjoyed a strong recovery since the recall, avoiding long-term damage to the brand.
Our international growth opportunities gained momentum with new agreements in Spain and India for Fruit Shoot and a step-change for the brand in the USA, with distribution into 32 states.
Our businesses in France and Ireland also significantly improved their performance and the whole company benefited from the warm summer, as well as a number of the programmes Simon had initiated.
6 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 business review business review ove over rv viiew ew go gov vernance ernance financial st financial statements atements shareholder inf shareholder information ormation Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 7
