Chairmans statement A successful year: our strongest ever set of results The Groups financial performance in 2013 was the strongest since its formation in 2001.
The overall value of I am pleased to report that 2013 has been our holdings in portfolio companies has a year of strong performance for IP Group significantly increased and this has led to which has resulted in a significant increase net assets, excluding intangibles and the Oxford Equity Rights asset, increasing to in the value of the Groups portfolio and its 315.5m 2012: 236.6m, representing net assets.
In income terms, the Group recorded an adjusted profit before tax of Building on this success we also made two 77.6m excluding the 5.0m reduction significant announcements in early 2014.
First in the value of the Oxford Equity Rights we completed an equity capital raise that, due asset 2012: 46.7m profit: 6.0m reduction.
Whilst both 2012 and 2013 to significant demand from new and existing have seen a very positive performance, shareholders, was increased in size to 100m it remains important for our shareholders before expenses and, second, we reached to note that, due to the long-term agreement on the terms of a recommended offer nature of the Groups business, profits and especially cash realisations can vary to acquire the remaining 79.9% of Fusion IP plc not significantly from year to year.
already owned by the Group.
The latter is subject to The Group has continued to support its a scheme of arrangement and we anticipate that the portfolio companies by both providing transaction will complete in late March, creating a capital from its balance sheet and business with an enlarged specialised team, access managed funds, and assisting them in sourcing further capital from a variety to IP from 15 of the UKs, and two of the USs, top of sources.
There continues to be a research universities, a portfolio with a value in comparatively low number of investors excess of 300m and approximately 140m of cash.
seeking to deploy significant capital Dr Bruce Smith Chairman into early-stage technology business although the environment has been more favourable in recent times, particularly in the public markets.
Looking at the AIM market, for example, capital raised through primary and secondary issues increased by nearly 25% in 2013 to 3.9bn, although this remains significantly below the 16bn levels seen in 2006 and 2007.
Our portfolio companies fared well in this regard, raising approximately 160m of capital during the year 2012: 110m.
We were also pleased to announce the launch of our 30m IP Venture Fund II in partnership with the EIF which will provide additional capital for the development of our new spin-out companies.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 02 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Overview Another important element of the pleased to report that Dr Fielding and Groups model is its access to world-class Professor Richards both remain with the Testimonial: commercialisable intellectual property Group on a part-time basis in roles that Business Building through the formation of long-term are enabling the Group to continue to relationships across a wide pool of leverage their significant expertise.
Having announced The Groups success in the last twelve I am very impressed our new proof of concept partnership months would have been impossible with IP Groups business with the University of Manchester in without the contributions of many model from an investee company early 2013, we were pleased to be able people and, as always, I am proud of and perspective.
IP Group offers Ceres to announce the expansion of this thankful for these efforts.
I would also Power its support across the board.
relationship in January 2014 to include like to formally note my thanks to the As well as access to the investment graphene projects and the extension Groups stakeholders, particularly for the community and its long-term view of its term to 2019.
During the year we overwhelming support from shareholders on the business, what is great is its also agreed to take an 8% equity holding for the Groups capital raising that we team in London.
They have fields in Cambridge Innovation Capital plc completed in February.
I would also of expertise that small companies CIC as part of its 50m fundraising.
like to extend a warm welcome to the dont have, they understand CIC will support the growth of innovative staff from Fusion IP plc, who, assuming the business and offer advice, businesses in the Cambridge Cluster our recommended offer completes as knowledge and support whilst and, through our memorandum of anticipated in March 2014, will all be allowing the management team to understanding, we have agreed to offered positions within the IP Group deliver.
share information on co-investment team.
David Baynes, Fusion IPs CEO, opportunities in this region.
It should Richard Preston, Finance Director and Doug Liversidge, its Chairman, are also be noted that the Groups original Ceres Power Holdings plc proposed additions to the Groups Board contract with Oxfords Department of upon completion as executive director Chemistry expires at the end of 2015 and non-executive director respectively.
although our access to innovation We look forward to working together from Oxfords Institute for Biomedical effectively to identify and develop the Engineering runs until 2023.
Outside of most exciting spin-outs from across all of the UK, we announced two exciting new our partner universities.
relationships with East Coast Ivy League universities in the US, Columbia University The sector in which the Group operates, and The University of Pennsylvania.
We namely IP commercialisation, appears look forward to working with academics to be gaining further attention with a and staff from our new partners, as well number of new entrants being seen in as with those universities with whom we the market in 2013.
Several companies already have significant track records, to or funds raised capital with the explicit identify backable commercial IP.
intention of seeking to develop spin-out companies from universities in the UK, as The Groups Board has seen three well as in the US and other countries.
Firstly, believe that this asset class will continue I am very pleased to be able to welcome to develop and no doubt the Group will Professor Lynn Gladden to the Board.
support spin-out companies alongside Professor Gladden, currently Pro-Vicesome of these new entrants: as may Chancellor for Research for the University be the case under the memorandum of Cambridge, has an impeccable track of understanding that we have with record in academia as well as extensive Cambridge Innovation Capital plc, experience in industry, a combination alongside our 8% equity holding.
I also highly relevant to the Groups business believe that the Groups track record and model.
Secondly, as previously expertise in its field, coupled with its longannounced, during the year Dr Alison term university partnerships and strong Fielding and Professor Graham Richards balance sheet, leaves it well placed to stepped down from the Groups Board, continue to generate significant value for in the case of Dr Fielding for personal shareholders over the long term.
reasons and in the case of Professor Richards because the length of his tenure as a non-executive director meant that he Dr Bruce Smith was no longer regarded as independent Chairman from a governance perspective.
I am 3 March 2014 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 03 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Overview
