Chairmans Statement kelowna and vernon hospitals This past year has been one of good progress and growth for your Company, demonstrated by a record number of value enhancing acquisitions, the largest amount of capital raised by the company during a financial year to date and progression on the dividend paid.
Introduction This past year has been one of good progress and growth for your Company, demonstrated by a record number of value enhancing acquisitions, the largest amount of capital raised by the company during a financial year to date and progression on the dividend paid.
On the basis of the performance of the Portfolio and the Company during 2013, we are pleased to be able to increase again the dividend to 3.25 pence per share, 6.50 pence per annum, for the second half of Paul Lester Chairman 2013, an increase of 4.0% on the previous dividend of 3.125 pence, being 6.25 pence per annum per share: a growth well above UK RPI.
I would like to begin by offering my thanks to all of you who supported our capital raising activities during 2013.
We raised gross total proceeds of 282.2 million during the year through a tap issue in July, a full pre-emptive capital raise in October and the remainder from those shareholders that elected for the scrip dividend alternative.
The majority of these funds have been invested in assets totalling 264.6 million this year.
We have acquired 15 stakes in new PPP projects, and five additional stakes in existing projects.
JLIF has further strengthened its presence and capability in the secondary market for infrastructure projects demonstrated by 62% of our acquisitions in 2013 coming from the wider secondary market, being sources other than through our first offer agreement with John Laing.
We were pleased to have delivered an increase in the dividend paid in you in May 2013, taking the dividend to 3.125 pence per share, a growth in dividend of 4.2%.
This uplift is attributable to the growth in our Portfolio through enhancements the management team is delivering and the scale of the Portfolio resulting from the number of acquisitions we have made.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 05.
Deliver after which we concluded that shares in JLIF are excluded from these new rules and as a result, the Board is of the view that the We have grown the Portfolio Value by almost 50% since the end restrictions relating to non-mainstream pooled investments will of 2012, primarily due to our acquisition activities.
We are very not apply to shares in the Company.
We made an announcement selective in the investment opportunities we pursue to ensure on the 20 January 2014 to this effect, which can be found on we are efficient with our resources and continue to deliver a our website.
competitive total return, whilst keeping our expense ratio to a minimum.
Board Changes Enhance I am pleased to announce that Helen Green has agreed to join the Board.
Helen is a Guernsey resident and a chartered We have exceeded our expectations of underlying growth in accountant with significant relevant experience that will the Portfolio relating to asset performance.
This growth is complement the Board, and she holds a number of other predominantly due to assets that were already constituents of non-executive directorships in listed companies.
The weighted average discount rate WADR of the Portfolio as at 31 December 2013 is 8.18%.
If all Outlook of the investments held at the end of the year were held for the whole year, and all distributions were received at the beginning There are a number of opportunities in the UK and Continental of the year, this would be the expected percentage growth in Europe for us to consider over both the short and medium term.
value due to unwind of the discount rate.
However, adjusting for We will continue to be highly selective of which assets we bid the timing of investments made and distributions received during for, so as to minimise costs and maximise return to JLIF.
We 2013 the expected growth rate from unwind of the discount rate anticipate that a number of acquisitions in 2014 are likely to is 6.38%.
This compares to the actual underlying growth in value be in the UK, although the international market continues to of 7.24%.
This outperformance is attributable to cost efficiencies grow and will become an increasing focus in the coming years.
in the management of our projects, the delivery of additional We continue to expand our horizons, seeking to capitalise on value embedded within the assets and the net impact of our experience of bidding in the Canadian and Australian markets macroeconomic factors such as ination, interest rates and in 2013.
Canada is an important market to us, representing over corporation tax.
Further details of the components of this growth 10% of our Portfolio.
It has strong support for PPP projects at are detailed in sections 3 and 4 of the Investment Adviser Report.
both national and provincial levels and robust participants with proven deliverability credentials.
JLIF successfully acquired another Develop hospital in British Columbia during 2013 and, as the secondary We have made significant progress in developing opportunities market develops, we will be ready to invest further in Canada.
to add to our existing investments in projects, evidenced by Australia has risen in signicance to JLIF and we are currently acquisitions from our co-shareholders and the beginnings of new investigating potential opportunities that are within JLIFs relationships with global market participants.
We have completed investment parameters and have potential to generate accretive five transactions from co-shareholders during 2013, and a further value to our shareholders.
The same can be said for the United two transactions from co-shareholders in February 2014.
We States of America, where we have held a watching brief for the continue to seek these opportunities where we believe them to past few years.
While we are now actively engaging in the USA, offer accretive value for JLIF.
we anticipate the secondary market pipeline to take a few years to develop.
Corporate Governance JLIF continues to maintain its Premium Listing on the London We have recently received shareholder approval by way of an Stock Exchange and follow the UK Corporate Governance Code EGM to make two changes to our investment policy: to increase the Code.
The Board has a framework in place to enable the the amount of assets we hold in their construction phase from Company to comply with as many provisions of the Code as 15% to 30% and to have the ability to invest up to 10% of our possible.
To enhance shareholder confidence in the Companys Portfolio in infrastructure projects that are not strictly PPP projects corporate governance structure, JLIF is a member of the but that offer similar risk proles and characteristics.
This affords Association of Investment Companies AIC.
JLIF has adopted us greater exibility to select the most appropriate opportunities the AICs guidance to facilitate transparency in the provision of for JLIF, whilst maintaining the overall risk-reward profile that information to shareholders for its governance and this Annual we have all as shareholders bought in to.
JLIFs Investment Adviser, John Laing Capital This has been a successful year for JLIF with both capital raises, Management Limited JLCM, also sits on the AIC Property a shareholder tap issue in July and a full placing in October, and Infrastructure Forum, to ensure both JLIF and JLCM can be receiving a good level of demand.
There have been successes instrumental in developing the infrastructure investment market of capital raising activities across the listed infrastructure space, and have access to the latest guidance and policy development.
demonstrating the continued popularity of the asset class.
Over the past year, Alternative Investment Fund Management We are very much looking forward to building on last years Directive AIFMD requirements have been claried such that successes with another exciting year ahead.
JLIF is categorised as a self-managed non-EU AIF Alternative Investment Fund.
New rules have been introduced by the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA relating to restrictions Paul Lester CBE on the retail distribution of unregulated collective investment Chairman schemes and close substitutes referred to as non-mainstream pooled investments, effective from 1 January 2014.
The Board 24 March 2014 has sought legal advice and received guidance from the FCA,
