Governance Governance 71 71 Reports of the Board Committees Audit & Risk Committee Chairmans report The Board has agreed that I have recent and No contractual obligations exist that restrict the relevant financial experience as required by groups choice of external audit rm.
We discuss the provisions of the Code and that I constitute with the auditors the scope of their audits an audit committee financial expert for the before they start.
We review the results and purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
consider the auditors formal reports, and we report the results of those reviews to the Board.
After each meeting I report to the Board on the main issues that we discuss.
Independence of the external auditors Committee members As a result of regulatory or similar requirements, we may need to employ the external auditors Meetings for certain non-audit services.
The Board Eligible has agreed policies in line with the relevant Member to attend Attended provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on what Over the past year we have non-audit services can be provided by the Nick Rose Chairman 6 6 paid particular attention to external auditors and the relevant approval Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 6 5 process.
This safeguards the independence increasing our understanding a Phil Hodkinson 22 and objectivity of the external auditors.
Work beyond group level risks.
b of a consultancy nature is not to be offered Karen Richardson 44 to the external auditors unless there are clear We have attended line Jasmine Whitbread 6 6 efficiencies and value-added benets for the of business audit & risk a company.
Phil Hodkinson retired from the committee on 30 June committees, received deep- 2012. b Karen Richardson joined the committee on 13 June 2012.
Internal audit dive risk presentations from We monitor internal audit and its relationship the line of business CEOs, and with the external auditors, as well as internal Our role undertaken in depth reviews audits plans, performance and effectiveness.
of specic markets such as You can view our terms of reference Internal controls and risk Italy.
All of this has served to on our website at management www.
com committees enhance our understanding On behalf of the Board, we review the groups of BTs overall control We have clear terms of reference which set out risk prole, endorse a programme for testing of our authorities and duties.
We review these the risk mitigation and controls that underpin environment.
annually and they are approved by the Board.
the groups assessment of residual risk and review the groups current risk exposure and capability to identify new risks.
Our role Nick Rose External audit supports the Boards responsibilities in respect We recommend the appointment and of the monitoring, review and reporting on re-appointment of the external auditors internal control and risk management.
and consider their resignation or dismissal, Who we are recommending to the Board appropriate We review the disclosures made by the Chief I chair the Audit & Risk Committee, and our actionto appoint new auditors.
Executive and Group Finance Director during membership and meeting attendance are set the certication process for the Annual Report & We assess the performance of the external out opposite.
Form 20-F. You can read more about this process auditors annually.
The evaluation focuses on: on page 95.
The Board takes responsibility for Although not members of the committee, audit scope and planning: performance of the all disclosures in the Annual Report & Form the Group Finance Director, Group Controller, lead audit partner and the audit team: audit 20-F. We also consider any whistleblowing Company Secretary, Director Internal Audit reporting and communications: added value: reports including the condential, anonymous and Director Group Financial Control attend and the audit fee.
 submission by employees regarding accounting, each meeting, as does the lead audit partner LLP and its predecessor rms have been BTs internal accounting controls or auditing matters, and other representatives from our external auditors since BT listed on the London Stock ensuring arrangements are in place for the auditors.
The external auditors are not present Exchange in 1984.
The external auditors are proportionate, independent investigation and when we discuss their performance and or required to rotate the lead partner every five appropriate follow-up of such matters.
years and other partners that are responsible for the group and subsidiary audits change The Board considers that our members have Financial reporting at least every seven years.
Such changes are broad commercial knowledge and extensive We review BTs published financial results, carefully planned to ensure business continuity business leadership experience.
We have held the Annual Report & Form 20-F and other without undue risk or inefficiency.
The partner between us various roles in major business, published information for statutory and responsible for BTs audit is completing his Government, financial management, and regulatory compliance.
We report our views to fourth year within the group audit team and financial function supervision, and the Board the Board to assist in its review and approval his first year as lead partner, which is a role he considers that this constitutes a broad and of the results announcements and the Annual can continue for a further three years.
suitable mix of business and financial experience.
Governance Governance Governance Governance 72 72 The key risks identied included revenue What we have done Internal controls and risk recognition, major contracts, fraud, pensions, We met six times during the year and the chart management regulatory and other provisions, capitalisation below shows how we allocated our time.
We We give risk management special attention and asset lives, tax and goodwill.
We agreed covered the same key areas as last year with and during the year we heard from each line of it was appropriate for the auditors to focus a slightly increased focus on internal controls business CEO on the key risks in their part of the on these areas.
Where they thought it would and risk management.
business, as well as the actions they are taking be effective to do so, this work included the to address them.
We aim to cover all significant evaluation and testing of the groups own risks to the group not just the financial risks.
Allocation of time internal controls.
One of our meetings focused solely on risk at We discussed these issues with them again at which the Chief Executive discussed the groups the time of their review of the half-year results enterprise-wide risk management processes, and again at the conclusion of their audit of and the key risks facing the group as a whole.
the financial statements for the year.
As they We reviewed the internal control requirements concluded the audit, they explained: under the Code including the risk management processes.
You can nd details of the Board and the work they had done to test our review of the groups systems of internal managements assumptions and estimates, control and risk management on page95.
in particular in relation to major contracts, the carrying value of goodwill, pensions, We received updates on security and resilience, regulatory and other provisions, and how cyber security, BTs networks, major contracts, they had satisfied themselves that these BTs operations in Italy, customer data were reasonable handling, litigation trends, as well as updates they had reviewed the appropriateness on major litigation and competition and Financial reporting 30% External audit 13% and application of the groups accounting regulation.
Internal controls and Governance 12% policies risk management 29% the results of their testing of the controls Financial reporting Internal audit 13%Other 3% and other procedures carried out in the We reviewed the Annual Report & Form major overseas locations and any issues 20-F 2012, together with annual, half-year We are keen to interact with senior they had found there.
and quarterly results announcements for management below executive level and recommendation to the Board.
The auditors also reported to us the representatives from finance and internal audit misstatements that they had found in the We considered the appropriateness of the have attended meetings at our invitation.
course of their work and we have confirmed groups accounting policies, critical accounting We set time aside at each meeting to seek the that there were no such material items estimates and key judgements.
We reviewed views of the internal and external auditors in remaining unadjusted in the financial accounting papers prepared by management on the absence of management.
areas of financial reporting judgement including the treatment of specic items, the estimation Our principal activities during the year were: Independence of the of the groups tax charge, and the assumptions underlying the pension liability valuation.
We External audit external auditors also considered the judgements made of the We carried out the annual review of the We monitored compliance with the agreed carrying value of goodwill and confirmed, auditors performance by gathering feedback policies on what non-audit services can be based on managements expectations of future from our members and senior management.
provided by the external auditors, and we performance, that no goodwill impairment We considered reports on the audit rms reviewed the extent of non-audit services charges were required in 2012 13. own internal quality control procedures and being performed and approved any non assessment of independence.
We agreed on pre-approved services, before the work was We considered and are satisfied that, taken a number of areas of progress and identied undertaken.
We also monitored the level as a whole, the Annual Report 2013 is fair, with the auditors some further improvements.
of non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
You balanced and understandable and provides Having assessed the responses we did not can see details of non-audit services carried the information necessary for shareholders consider it necessary to require them to out by the external auditors in note 8 to the to assess the groups performance, business tender for the audit.
The appointment of consolidated financial statements.
 LLP as auditors of the group is subject to shareholder approval Internal audit Governance attheAGM.
We endorsed in May 2012 the internal audit Our performance is reviewed annually by plan of work.
This integrates the assurance inviting members, key executives and the We are considering, in the light of the recent requirements for the internal financial controls external auditors to complete questionnaires.
changes to the Code to put the external audit testing programme, the companys overseas The results showed that we continue to be contract out to tender at least every ten years, footprint, and the groups risk assurance effective in terms of both behaviours and how and when a tender process might be mapping.
It includes coverage of significant processes.
Areas of focus over the next implemented.
We will make a recommendation static and dynamic risks.
twelve months include connectivity with to the Board during 2013 14. other BT Board committees, enterprise risk We reviewed promptly all material reports We reviewed and approved the auditors management risk appetite, cyber security, data from the internal auditors and ensured that group audit plan after discussion with them.
privacy and BT Global Services operations.
management took appropriate action on The auditors explained to us the programme issues arising from such reports.
We monitored of work they planned to undertake to ensure managements responsiveness to the findings that the identied audit risks did not lead Nick Rose and recommendations of the internal auditors.
to a material misstatement of the financial Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Examples included physical access security and statements.
At the end of the year wereceived a report on the performance of internal audit.
