Strategic Report Chairmans Statement The Chairmans Statement is now included within the Strategic Report which new reporting regulations require UK companies to prepare.
There are further changes throughout the Annual Report and Accounts as a result of this new reporting regime and I draw shareholders attention to the New Reporting Requirements section below for full details.
This time last year, I wrote that the US equity market looked like a reasonable place to be, although it would have been unwise to assume that market turmoil had disappeared.
I also commented on how far the market as measured by the S&P 500 Index had risen since the dark days of 2008 and early 2009.
In the event, the US equity market, measured in sterling, provided a very strong return, of 29.5% including income in the 12 months to 31st December 2013.
The confluence of this rise in the US market, good stock-picking both within the large and small cap portfolios, gearing and the hedging of the Companys sterling debenture debt has produced particularly strong returns for shareholders.
We do not necessarily expect this happy combination to be repeated every year.
The return to shareholders was 33.0% and the return on net assets with debt at par value was 30.9%, representing an outperformance of the Companys benchmark.
By far the largest contributor to the above returns was the US stock market itself, which surged ahead last year.
However, it also was pleasing that both the large and small capitalisation portfolios contributed on top of the market rise, adding approximately 2.1% and 0.8% respectively to returns.
The returns were further assisted by gearing, particularly in the latter half of the year.
Sterling strengthened slightly over the year as a whole despite some rather volatile moments, so for sterling investors, the rise in the US stock market was slightly dampened by the fall in dollar values when translated back into the pound.
The share price return was also assisted by a small increase in the premium on which the shares trade relative to net asset value.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 5 Strategic Report continued Chairmans Statement continued So this has been a good year for investors in the US, and in other developed markets.
Global emerging markets, however, fell by 4.4% in 2013.
This pattern is not perhaps what had been predicted by many commentators two or three years ago.
The impact of possible and actual tapering the reduction in levels of quantitative easing has been felt much more severely in smaller, emerging markets, than it has in the US itself.
Investors in the US also managed not to be thrown off course by the political rows over debt ceilings.
Our manager comments in more detail on the US market, and it is perhaps interesting to note the confidence in innovation shown by investors in the US, as Apple and Google have become the two largest stocks in the US market at the time of writing, surpassing Exxon.
There has been considerable exuberance in the Biotech sector as well.
The US economy has recovered to its pre-2008 levels, and its stock market has reached an all-time high.
It is sometimes difficult to think back to the dark days of 2008, and the depths of the financial crisis, when market participants appear confident.
However, it is important to remember that the quantitative easing programme has helped owners of financial assets, such as your Company, and not perhaps so much those without, and that the damage caused by the financial crises has not been totally erased for many.
Performance of the Company The Company has performed well in both absolute and relative terms in the last year.
As I said above, the most significant factor was the very strong rise in the S&P 500, and the Company managed to perform a little better than that.
This is a good performance also in comparison with its peers of whom perhaps there are not many in the investment trust universe and it is now top over one and three years.
What matters is the long term, where over the last 10 years, for all of which Garrett Fish has been investment manager, your Company has outperformed the S&P500 quite significantly.
This is reflected in its second percentile positioning over 10 years in the Morningstar competitive universe of European-domiciled US large cap strategies.
We are particularly pleased that the Company has shown relative resilience in falling markets.
Last years performance was recognised by Investment Week, which awarded the Company its Single Country Award at its Investment Company of the Year Awards for 2013.
Gearing Last year, I recorded that we had identified that the tactical use of gearing had not added value in recent years, and given the extent of the quantitative easing programme in place, we felt that the measures we had used previously to assess the appropriate level of gearing for the fund, might not work well in the current environment.
We therefore decided that the Companys normal level of gearing would be 10%, but permitted the investment manager to vary this level by plus or minus 2% if it was felt prudent to do so.
The investment manager is permitted, if he feels that there is a real risk of loss of capital, to hold cash up to 5% of net assets.
All 6 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 of this remains within our stated gearing policy.
We asked the investment manager to implement this policy in stages during the year.
In order to meet this requirement, we also negotiated a new shorter term debt facility of 30 million to be borrowed in US Dollars with ING to provide additional gearing in excess of the 50 million debenture already in place.
This has allowed the fund manager to implement this policy on a larger asset base.
Net Gearing level offsetting cash and near cash against 50m debenture.
Dividend The Company paid an interim dividend in respect of the 2013 financial year of 5.0p on 9th October 2013.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, a final dividend of 8.5p will be paid on 9th May 2014 to shareholders on the register on 11th April 2014.
This years payment does not necessitate drawing on the Companys reserves, and represents an increase of 8% on last years 12.5p distribution.
Shareholders should note that both the level of dividends the Company receives from its investee companies and the translation of those dividends into sterling could vary significantly from year to year.
However, after the payment of the proposed final dividend, we will have a balance in the revenue reserves of 10.6 million equivalent to 19.8p per share or 1.47 times the current dividend.
These significant income reserves can be used to support dividend payments when corporate payouts are less healthy, as the Company has done in the past.
Share Price and premium discount Our share price rose during 2013 from 906p to 1,191p.
Compared to net asset value taking debt at fair value, the shares have traded at a premium for most of the year.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 7 Strategic Report continued Chairmans Statement continued Discount Premium level 6 4 2 0 2 4 6 8 10 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Source: Datastream Discount Premium level calculated with debt at fair value and including income.
The Company again issued stock over the year: a total of 3,402,190 shares, or 6.8% of the issued share capital at the beginning of the year raising 37.9 million.
We have always issued shares at a premium to estimated cum income with debt at fair net asset value, and have added 1.24p to the net asset value calculated on that basis during the year.
Since the year end the Company has issued a further 1,370,000 shares, or another 2.7% of the issues share capital at the beginning of the year, taking the Company close to its 10% authority.
The Board does believe that expanding the trust has benefits to its existing shareholders in terms of increased liquidity and lower costs per share, although we do not intend aggressively to pursue growth for its own sake.
We are therefore asking for shareholder permission to continue to issue shares on the same basis, where Directors are confident of sustainable market demand.
We are putting the relevant resolutions to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in May, where the Board is seeking permission to issue up to 15% of its issued share capital.
This is greater than the normal level which is 10%.
To facilitate this, the Company will also be shortly publishing a Prospectus of which further details are set out below.
The Company has demonstrated its willingness to buy shares back when the shares stand at anything more than a small discount.
Between 2003 and 2007 approximately 30% of the outstanding share capital was repurchased.
Having issued shares, the Board is aware of its responsibility not to let the discount widen significantly and therefore the Company will be again be asking shareholders to approve the relevant share buyback resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
Prospectus The Company will shortly be publishing a prospectus which will set out proposals to put a share issuance programme in place to enable the Company to continue to issue further shares at a premium to net asset value.
The publication of a prospectus removes the usual constraint of a 10% limit on the number of shares that can be issued in any 12 month period.
This will be combined with a proposal to be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to permit the Company to issue up to 15% of the issued share capital to investors without first having to offer them pro-rata to existing shareholders.
8 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 The Annual Report also contains details of a proposed five for one sub-division of the Companys share capital.
The average mid-market price of an existing ordinary share over the year under review was 1,098.8p per share.
The Board believes that sub-dividing the shares will reduce the Companys share price to a level where dealing in the shares will be more efficient, hence increasing the attractiveness of the shares to new investors and increasing the liquidity of the market for the Companys shares.
Investors should note that the share split will not affect the overall value of their holdings in the Company as the reduction in the price per share will be offset by a commensurate increase in the number of shares they hold in the Company.
Using last years average price per share of 1,098.8p and following a sub-division, each holder of one ordinary share would receive five new shares which would trade at 219.76p.
Shareholders will have an opportunity to vote on this proposal at the Annual General Meeting.
Investment Manager The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from North American investments by out-performance of the Companys benchmark, which is the S&P 500 Index with both net asset value and benchmark measured in sterling total return terms.
The Board has once again reviewed carefully the capabilities of the investment manager in order to assess whether J. P. Morgan Asset Management JPMAM should remain the Manager of the Companys assets.
Directors meet with the investment managers of both the large and small capitalisation portfolio and the investment company team in London, and have conversations over the teleconference system and visit the investment management offices in New York.
The Board also analyses the performance of the sections of the portfolio.
The Board does look at comparisons with appropriate peer groups both in the UK and the US with regard to performance, fee rates and costs of management.
The Manager has this year earned a performance fee of 1.56 million, which when added to the negative balance brought forward from prior years gives a positive balance of 426,000 to be paid in equal amounts over a period of three years.
The Board also spent time reviewing the investment management operation whilst in New York for a Board Meeting in 2013.
Time was spent with sector analysts, the behavioural finance asset management team, the dealing team and senior management.
In addition to investment management, the Manager provides other services to the Company, including marketing, accounting and company secretarial services.
We have concluded that the ongoing appointment of JPMAM is in the continuing interests of shareholders.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive The AIFMD is a European Union Directive which creates a European wide framework for the regulation of managers of all alternative investment funds, including investment trusts.
This Directive, whose declared aim is to provide additional protection for investors, came into force in the UK on 22nd July 2013, albeit with a one year transitional period.
For investment trusts, who were perhaps included by accident, the Directive would appear unlikely to introduce much increased protection for shareholders and will have some cost, but we have to comply with it by 22nd July 2014.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 9 Strategic Report continued Chairmans Statement continued Compliance with the AIFMD will have an impact on some of the Companys operations, as well as the contractual arrangements between the Company and its Manager.
We have considered options and we expect that the Company will be entering into arrangements with an affiliate of JPMAM to act as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager, replacing the current arrangement, at no additional cost to the Company and with little other impact.
The Directive also requires the appointment of a depository, which will result in extra administration fees for your Company, which are expected to be in the order of 120,000, or 0.017% of the Companys gross assets, per annum.
Costs Given the increased costs of the AIFMD, and the need to make sure that we continue to offer attractive value for shareholders and potential shareholders, we continue to focus on costs.
To that end, and despite the greater amount of time required to develop the Company and regulatory burden continuing to rise, we are holding directors fees at current levels for 2014: a level that they have been set at since 2011.
In reviewing the cost base of the Company, the Board has developed the table below which it also intends to include in future Report and Accounts.
This aims to shows the returns generated on the Companys investments, the extent to which the capital base of the Company has grown or shrunk through share issuance and buy-backs, and the full costs of the Companys operations.
It does so without the distortions that may come from the variations in the accounting treatment of certain items of income or expenditure which may obscure the full extent of certain categories of return or expense.
2013 2012 Percentage Percentage of opening of opening 000s net assets 000s net assets Net assets at start of year 464,734 100.00 400,379 100.00 Increase decrease in net assets during the year from investing 141,096 30.36 32,529 8.12 Brokerage fees commissions and other dealing charges 305 0.07 143 0.04 Net investment performance 605,525 130.29 432,765 108.09 Income received from investing net of withholding tax 9,636 2.07 8,416 2.10 1 Dividends paid to shareholders 6,381 1.37 7,639 1.91 Interest paid on borrowings 3,518 0.76 3,468 0.87 Gains losses on currency hedging 3,346 0.72 1,025 0.26 Management fees 3,483 0.75 2,465 0.62 Directors fees 151 0.03 159 0.04 Other costs of the Company 407 0.09 418 0.10 Issue of new shares 38,001 8.17 37,020 9.26 Cost of issue of new shares 355 0.08 343 0.09 Net assets at end of year 642,213 138.19 464,734 116.07 1 Dividends paid in 2012 include a final full years dividend for 2011 and interim dividend for 2012.
10 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 The Board believes this table demonstrates the relatively modest expenses of operating the Company in the context of the returns generated by the portfolio and the capital growth arising on the issuance of new shares.
In 2013 the net total of all the costs of the Company were 4,618,000 including interest 2012: 5,628,000 against a return to shareholders of 150,732,000 2012: 43,945,000.
However, the continued reduction in the costs of investing in competing investment products with a similar mandate means there is no room for complacency.
The Board The Board has put in place procedures to ensure that the Company complies fully with the AIC Code on Corporate Governance.
In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all continuing Directors will seek reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, I, along with Kate Bolsover, Simon Bragg, Sir Alan Collins and James Williams all being eligible, offer ourselves for reappointment at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Board continues to manage succession so that it has an appropriate balance of skills and diverse approaches to its tasks.
Having served as a Director since 2003, James Williams will be retiring from the Board in November of this year.
James has contributed significantly to the success of the Company and added value for shareholders over the last 11 years and we wish him well for the future.
The Board is currently in the process of recruiting a new non-executive Director, and it is hoped that he or she will be appointed following the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
After a handover period, James Williams will retire and the Board will again comprise five Directors.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee will continue to manage the process of Board succession and refreshment over the next year, to make sure your Board has the skills and experience to add value to shareholders.
It has also reviewed the fees paid to Directors and recommended that as noted above, no increase should be made this year.
Details of the fee levels can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 40.
New Reporting Requirements There have been a number of revisions to reporting requirements for companies with accounting periods beginning on or after 1st October 2012.
Accordingly shareholders will note a few amendments to the format of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts from prior years.
These include the addition of a new Strategic Report which is intended to replace the Business Review section of the Directors Report, providing insight into the Companys objectives, strategy and principal risks, and enabling shareholders to assess how effective Directors have been in promoting the success of the Company during the course of the year under review.
Other changes comprise additional Audit reporting requirements on the accounts and on the external audit process, and changes to the structure and voting requirements in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 Strategic Report continued Chairmans Statement continued Under the new reporting regime, the Board must ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, and how this has been achieved.
The Board has added more information to help in this regard, in particular the table under costs.
Directors believe that the information throughout the Annual Report and Accounts allows the Board to state that it has achieved this requirement.
However, as this is the Companys first year reporting under the new regime, I would be happy to hear from shareholders if you feel that there is any information you would like to see or any other changes you would like the Board to make to the content of the Annual Report.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, 7th May 2014 at 2.30 p. m. at Holborn Bars, 138142 Holborn, London EC1N 2NQ.
As in previous years, in addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from our investment manager, who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
There will also be an opportunity to meet the Board, Garrett Fish and representatives of JPMAM after the meeting.
I look forward to welcoming as many shareholders as possible to this meeting.
Outlook The US economy and equity market has continued to recover from the financial crisis and both have now surpassed their pre-crisis levels.
The relative robustness of the US economy has perhaps been surprising although the strength of the corporate sector has been evident for a while.
The combination of the two and the massive quantative easing programme, of course has led to considerable stock market strength and rise in valuation measures beyond increases in earnings.
It is interesting that the US equity market still seems to be unpopular with many UK investors although it offers such a range of investment opportunity.
Whether or not it will outperform other markets over the next year is difficult to tell, but the US corporate sector is in very good health and the dynamism of many of its companies is hard to match.
Sarah Bates Chairman 25th March 2014 12 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
