Chairmans Statement I am very pleased to report that the Company performed strongly in the year to 30th June 2013, again outperforming its benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
As I have explained in previous years, following the successful issue of Subscription shares in 2009, we report our net asset value on a diluted basis to reflect the potential dilution to net asset value assuming full conversion of the Subscription shares to Ordinary shares.
Until expiry of the Subscription shares in July 2014, this can give a somewhat misleading impression of the Companys underlying portfolio performance.
Once again, I would emphasise that it is not the basis on which we judge the performance of the Manager, which we continue to do excluding the dilution effect of the Subscription shares, which was 1.6% during the year.
The Companys objective is to outperform the MSCI Emerging Markets Index in sterling terms over time on a total return basis.
Our Manager delivers on this commitment by a particular focus on bottom-up stock selection rather than a top-down asset allocation across markets.
I would characterise our Managers investment style as one of quality growth investing, meaning he is looking for well managed companies with a good market position which are capable of positive cash flow generation and the ability to support rising dividend payments to shareholders over time.
This means that he is likely to be underweight cyclical or resource stocks in favour of consumer growth stocks in the portfolio.
Our longer term record suggests he has been successful in this approach.
Accordingly, I can report that the portfolio return net of fees and expenses was 11.6% before adjustments, against a return of 6.4% from the benchmark.
Allowing for the dilution effect of those Subscription shares that were actually exercised in the year, this adjusts to a rise in net asset value of 10.0%.
The return on a fully diluted basis was 12.0% this apparently odd figure results from the fact that the potential dilution from the remaining shares is now less than the potential dilution at the end of the last financial year, because a significant proportion of the subscriptions shares were converted during the year.
This outperformance was driven by active stock selection, as the Manager details in his report, continuing the source of added value in the Managers performance over many years.
It also gives rise to a non-offsetable performance fee payment due to the Manager of 3.2 million: this sum, together with the non-offsetable fee of 1.8 million brought forward from the previous financial year, is now payable as there has been a positive movement in the net asset value over the financial year.
Shareholders will recall that we only pay out when the net asset value of the Company is rising so as to align the interests of the Manager with shareholders.
We continue to monitor closely the share price and therefore the fluctuations in the discount of our share price to their diluted net asset value.
The Ordinary share price rose 6.7% through the year, from 531.5p to 567.0p at the year end.
The Subscription shares increased 2% over the year, from 75.0p to 76.5p.
The discount on the Ordinary shares, calculated on the fully diluted net asset value, ranged between 6.5% and 12.2%, averaging 9.6% through the year.
A total of 2,669,417 shares were repurchased into Treasury during the year and a further 56,705 shares have been repurchased since the year end.
The discount has widened out over the summer as emerging markets have been out of favour and we have held off from intervening actively when markets are unfavourable, but there has been no change in our approach to managing the discount.
The Boards policy on discount management is that it is prepared to take action to ensure that the fully diluted discount does not touch or exceed 10% for an extended 2 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 period, but only if the discount is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
We are prepared to buy shares in at discounts of between 8% and 10% in order to achieve this, subject to those caveats.
Income after expenses rose by more than 15% and we are proposing to pay an increased dividend of 5.5p.
Our investment policy is aimed at maximising capital growth and does not focus on income.
We have however embarked on a more progressive approach to the dividend and are pleased to be able to raise it again which we hope recognises some shareholders concerns.
However, given that the Companys objective is to achieve capital growth, it remains the case that dividends may fluctuate from year to year according to our income position.
The Board continues to take seriously its governance obligations and we comply fully with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
During the year under review, the Board engaged an independent external consultant to conduct an evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors.
His report confirmed that the Board has an appropriate mix of skills and experience and that it functions well.
It also made recommendations for succession planning.
David Gamble has indicated his intention to retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
In order to ensure appropriate succession planning and continuity, Sarah Arkle was appointed a Director with effect from 1st September 2013.
Sarah is a very experienced investment professional, having previously held a number of senior positions within Threadneedle Asset Management where she worked from 1983 until 2011.
She is also is a Non-Executive Director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc, Henderson Group plc and a member of the Newnham College Cambridge Investment Committee.
We continue to monitor the performance of our Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM, through the Management Engagement Committee.
We remain fully satisfied with the Managers performance, not only in terms of investment performance but also in terms of risk management, administration, controls and compliance.
Significant regulatory change is currently taking place with the implementation of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
The Company must comply with the AIFMD no later than July 2014.
We are taking advice on this matter, but the Board has agreed in principle to appoint JPMAM as its AIFM.
Existing Directors duties will remain but there will be additional reporting requirements and the Company will be obliged to appoint a depositary to oversee the Companys custody and cash management operations.
We will be in a position to give more information on this matter in the next half year report to be published in February 2014.
Emerging markets have had a difficult few months and their underperformance against developed markets has moved them to a valuation discount.
Short term volatility may persist for a while but we are confident that the long term argument in favour of emerging markets remains intact and we continue to anticipate longer term outperformance.
Alan Saunders Chairman 4th October 2013 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
