Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that our business These focused investments give us the has performed very well during 2012 13. platform to create a leading international Revenues, underlying profi tability and specialist healthcare business that cash generation increased substantially makes a real difference to physicians and we made good progress with the and patients alike, that delivers operating priorities we set out in last signifi cant value to our stakeholders years Report.
and that creates fulfi lling careers for our employees.
The strong growth in revenue refl ects a robust performance in our Specialty Investing for growth is expected to Pharmaceuticals business, the impact create signifi cant value over the longer of the transition to direct sales of our term and remains our current focus, interventional oncology products in the so we do not recommend payment of US and increased royalties from licensed a dividend.
However, the Board intends products.
Operating achievements to review its dividend policy regularly during the year include the submission as the business continues to evolve.
of a new drug application for Varisolve PEM in the US and the US launch of Our key challenge is to grow in a Garry Watts Voraxaze glucarpidase by our Acute sustainable way.
For us, sustainability Chairman Care team.
means combining the right strategy with strong execution, fi financial discipline, Read more about our strategy To deliver further growth, we continue a culture of continuous improvement, www.
com about-us strategy to pursue our strategy of investing in strong governance and good corporate Our latest share prices and expanding our portfolio of specialist citizenship.
These themes are the focus www.
com investors share-price-data healthcare products.
Our strong cash of our medium-term priorities, which reserves and increasing cash generation we discuss on page 20 of this Report.
enable us to invest both in internal They also feature in the Chief Executive development activities and in the Offi cers review, the business review, the acquisition of complementary products corporate responsibility report and the and late-stage development sections on risk management and programmes.
During the year, we corporate governance.
outlined a planned programme of studies to expand the approved uses In the corporate governance report of our interventional oncology products.
on page 48 we state that the Company In addition, we continue to review a has complied fully with the 2010 number of acquisition opportunities edition of the UK Corporate Governance that arose during the year.
Our next Annual Report will comment on compliance with the new provisions of the Code as it applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012. Business review 12 Chairmans statement BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review I am grateful to the Board of directors B TG has made excellent for the guidance, oversight, support and progress in recent years.
challenge they bring, which contributes significantly to the Companys overall We have the financial success.
On behalf of the Board, my resources, capabilities and thanks go to Peter Chambr, who retired opportunities to continue in September 2012 after six years as a non-executive director, having helped to build the business and steer the business through a period deliver sustainable growth.
of strategic change and expansion.
Garry Watts Richard Wohanka, who was appointed Chairman as a non-executive director in January 2013, brings significant additional business experience to the Board.
I would especially like to thank our employees, on whose talent and energy our success ultimately depends, for their continued dedication and focus on delivery.
I welcome those employees who joined us over the past year.
On behalf of the whole Company, I also wish to thank you, our shareholders, for your continued support as we implement our growth plans.
BTG has made excellent progress in recent years.
We have the financial resources, capabilities and opportunities to continue to build the business and deliver sustainable growth.
Garry Watts Chairman Business review 13 Chairmans statement BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
