Chairmans Letter strong RESULTS In 2012 13, the Burberry team navigated a challenging environment making excellent strategic progress and achieving another record financial result.
board has recommended a 16% increase in the full year dividend to 29.0p.
In addition to the teams efforts, these results were also a function of investments over the past several years.
The Group has invested heavily in stores, emerging growth markets, technology and new capabilities.
While in line with Burberrys growth objectives, its worth highlighting that some of these are particularly important in a more difficult external environment.
For example, previous investments in information systems and business intelligence expertise brought greater visibility and enabled quicker and more precise action during the year.
Looking forward, although the near-term environment presents many uncertainties, Burberry plans to continue to invest based upon a Sir John Peace successful strategy, its distinctive culture and generally Chairman favourable luxury sector fundamentals.
Consistent with this, in 2012 13 Burberry committed to one of its largest Strategically, activity was focused by Burberrys core single investments to date with its decision to integrate the themes.
In product, the team continued to refine the fragrance and make-up business.
Operating as of 1 April offering across categories.
Innovative digital marketing 2013, Beauty offers an exciting growth platform activity brought a more engaging message to targeted sets for the future.
Flagship store openings extended Burberrys presence in key gateway cities.
Supported by these The year also brought important management changes.
initiatives, the brand experience continued to be enriched Stacey Cartwright, Executive Vice President, Chief and elevated.
Burberrys distinctive culture was further Financial Officer and a director, will stand down in July 2013 nurtured and reinforced, and continued to project externally to pursue new interests.
Stacey has been an outstanding through the work of the Burberry Foundation.
These, along contributor to Burberry during the past nine years, and we with the full set of the Groups strategic initiatives, are thank and wish her well in future endeavours.
We welcome discussed throughout this report.
Carol Fairweather as Chief Financial Officer and a director.
As Carol has been with the Group for six years, most This progress was also recognised externally.
Interbrand, recently leading the finance function, this is a natural the global brand consultancy, once again named Burberry transition.
Finally, John Smith, former Chief Executive of in its list of the worlds 100 most valuable brands.
In the BBC Worldwide and a non-executive director, joined digital arena, Burberry led media think tank L2s Fashion Burberrys executive team as Chief Operating Officer in Digital IQ Index for the second year.
Johns deep experience in digital media is an Company magazine listed Burberry second in its ranking of important addition to the Group.
In keeping with this the worlds most innovative retailers.
And, in an indicator of dynamic, growing business, we expect to continue cultural strength, professional platform LinkedIn identified to evolve board composition going forward.
Burberry as the 29th most in-demand employer globally.
On behalf of the Board, I thank the global team for their Financial performance was also strong.
Total revenue grew efforts during a challenging year and congratulate them 8% to 2bn, with adjusted operating profit increasing 14% on their achievements.
By executing a consistent strategy to 428m.
While overall results are strong, a look at the core in pursuit of clear objectives clarity of the luxury brand retail wholesale business, which excludes the impact of the message, sustainable growth and great company legacy Japan licensed business, is more indicative of the the Burberry team has generated substantial value for modern brands progress.
Here, retail wholesale adjusted shareholders in this and years past.
Similarly, on behalf operating profit increased 17% on an 8% revenue gain.
of the Board and team, I thank shareholders for their Adjusted after-tax return on capital was 35%.
ended the year with a 297m net cash balance, and the 7
