4 Chairmans statement Performance Regulatory environment Our net asset value total return for the year to This years annual report looks rather different to previous 31 December 2013 was 28.6%, compared to a total years.
Changes to the Companies Act, UK Corporate return of 20.8% for the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
Governance Code and remuneration regulations are Net revenue return per share was 16.27p, an increase of all reflected.
7.5% over the previous year, as a result of a 9.9% In particular, we publish for the first time a strategic report, increase in the investment trust and a 4.3% increase in a separate audit committee report and a remuneration independent fiduciary services.
The aim of these changes, all driven by legislation, is to provide more clarity for shareholders, enable more Dividend comparability between companies in the sector and in the The board is recommending a final dividend of 10.50p per remuneration area to enhance disclosure and make ordinary share 2012: 9.75p which, together with the clearer what the board can, and cannot, award by way of interim dividend of 4.5p 2012: 4.5p, gives a total dividend remuneration.
Overall, we are required to ensure that the of 15.00p 2012: 14.25p.
annual report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable, which the board believes is the case.
The final dividend will be paid, subject to shareholder approval, on 17 April 2014 to holders on the register on the The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive record date of 21 March 2014. became law in July 2013.
This legislation was primarily intended to bring funds such as hedge funds and private Our policy continues to be to seek growth in both capital equity funds within the regulatory perimeter.
"We attach considerable importance to the it also captures investment trusts which, as a result, are dividend, which we aim to increase over a period, if not now compelled to appoint an appropriately regulated every year, at a rate which is covered by earnings and Alternative Investment Fund Manager ""AIFM""."
This is which does not inhibit the flexibility of our investment despite the general perception that investment trusts were strategy.
Our basis for reporting earnings is more already more than adequately regulated.
The Corporation conservative than that of many investment trusts, in that all has elected to become its own AIFM, as it is permitted to of our expenses, including interest costs, are charged fully do under the legislation, and is in the process of making an to the revenue account.
application for authorisation to the Financial Conduct Authority.
There will be additional compliance costs Investment trust involved in this principally arising from the need to Performance of the portfolio during the year was pleasing appoint a depositary and this will result in a small both in terms of revenue return and, in particular, capital increase in our Ongoing charges.
Global equity markets forged ahead and the portfolio comfortably outperformed the comparator index.
Board Although we remained wary of wider macroeconomic John Kay who has been a director for the past nine years trends, not all of which are positive, we introduced gearing has decided that he will not offer himself for re-election at of 5% to enable the investment manager to take advantage the forthcoming AGM.
As one of the UKs leading of the opportunities he identified.
A more detailed economists, the board has benefited greatly from Johns description of the portfolio performance is set out in the insight and wise counsel, which we shall miss.
We are investment managers review on page 16. taking steps to recruit a new non-executive director and will make an announcement as soon as we have identified a Independent fiduciary services suitable replacement.
The businesses produced increased returns in 2013 as market conditions showed signs of improvement.
We The annual general meeting will be held at the Brewers describe in our strategic report how the fiduciary services Hall, Aldermanbury Square, London EC2V 7HR on 9 April businesses fit in to our business model and in particular, 2014 and I look forward to seeing as many as possible of how shareholders benefit from the returns that these you there.
A more detailed review of the independent fiduciary services businesses is set out on page 18.
Christopher Smith The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
