Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 8 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CHAIRMAnS STATeMenT This was, is, and will continue to be, a bank focused on customers needs and building lasting relationships.
Sir Winfried Bischoff Chairman Overview Progress in 2013 2013 has been a significant year for lloyds Banking Group, and in my last In 2013, we accelerated the delivery of our strategy and made substantial year-end statement as Chairman I would like to reflect not just on the years progress in creating a simple, customer focused, low risk retail and commercial performance, but also on the strong position the Group has built as a result bank.
We more than doubled our Group underlying profit to 6.2 billion and of the significant progress we have made in the past four years.
returned to modest statutory profitability at the pre-tax level, while further reducing the risk in the business and strengthening the balance sheet.
Our When I became Chairman in September 2009, I knew we faced many pro forma fully loaded common equity tier 1 ratio is now 10.3 per cent.
challenges as a Group, not least from the integration of two large businesses during a challenging time for financial markets and the global economy.
The significant progress enabled the uK government to sell a 6 per cent However, I was encouraged by the great potential I could see in the Groups stake in the Group in September 2013, thereby reducing its holding to combined franchise, in the strength of its brands, and in the commitment of 32.7 per cent.
This was a major milestone in our recovery, and marks the colleagues to do the best for customers.
This was, is, and will continue to be, start of the journey to full re-privatisation, a key priority for the Group.
a bank focused on customers needs and building lasting relationships.
We have also commenced preparatory work including the preparation of certain documents required for a possible future sale of shares in I believed we could overcome these challenges and begin the process lloyds Banking Group to the public.
of restoring our customers trust in what is a great British institution, with a strong heritage.
I was also determined that the positive role the Group has We were also pleased that the first phase of the european Commission played in the uK economy in the past should once again be recognised, mandated business disposal, Project Verde, was successfully completed and that lloyds Banking Group should be a company of which we can all in September 2013, with TSB Bank launched onto the uK high streets.
We continue to target an Initial Public Offering IPO of TSB Bank in 2014.
The Board has taken a number of important, and in many instances difficult, Despite this progress we have continued to be affected by legacy issues, decisions as we have worked towards these goals.
They have included the in particular Payment Protection Insurance for which we took additional capital restructuring of the business, the appointment of a new management provisions of 3,050 million in the year.
Though very disappointing, I am team and the development and oversight of our new strategy.
confident that our customer focused strategy along with the new customer processes and reward structures we are implementing will prevent issues of A key early decision was to issue new shares in the Group in December this magnitude being repeated.
2009 to ensure we avoided the need for the government to take a larger stake or for the Group to face substantial further capital headwinds.
As a Group we are well positioned, having established a business model and I acknowledge this was painful at the time for many existing shareholders strategy which is aligned with the economic and regulatory environment.
but has subsequently proved to have been the right choice for shareholders We have a strong and experienced management team to lead the further financially, as well as ensuring strength and stability, and laying the development of the business.
The Group is now profitable, with a strong foundations for subsequent progress.
balance sheet and solid prudential foundations on which to build sustainable growth by serving our customers well.
Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 8 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 We were pleased to welcome Dyfrig John to the Board in January this year We are one of the largest as an Independent non-executive Director.
Dyfrig has significant banking experience in the uK and overseas, having served in a number of senior community investors in the UK, management and Board roles with HSBC and its subsidiaries, and given his position as the Chairman of Principality Building Society.
providing 85 million Juan Colombs was appointed to the Board in november 2013.
Juan has per annum to worthy causes.
been the Groups Chief Risk Officer and a member of the Group executive Committee since January 2011.
He is responsible for the management of risk across the Group and has over 25 years of banking experience.
His Supporting the UK economic recovery appointment highlights the importance of risk management in the Group and reflects the significant work that Juan has done to reshape the risk Our simple, uK focused, low risk retail and commercial business plays a function over the past three years.
leading role in reshaping the banking industry and rebuilding the trust that is so vital in providing effective support for the economy.
We are helping As a Board we believe that diversity helps to improve the quality of decision Britain prosper through our participation in uK government schemes such making and I am pleased that we maintained at least 25 per cent female as Help To Buy and Funding for lending, in the latter of which we have representation on the Board ahead of the 2015 deadline mandated by the been the largest participant.
I am particularly proud of our commitment to lord Davies report.
I am confident that we will continue to promote diversity, uK business since our performance is inextricably linked to that of the uK both within the Board and the Group as a whole after my retirement.
economy, and the companies that operate within it.
Our SMe lending grew One of the principal tasks of the Board is to develop a strategy which 6 per cent in 2013 in a market that contracted, while we exceeded our target achieves long-term success and generates sustainable returns for of lending 1 billion to uK manufacturing companies three months ahead shareholders.
In turn, this needs to be underpinned by the high standards of of schedule, a commitment we made in recognition of the fundamental role corporate governance which are critical to the success of any business today.
the manufacturing sector plays in the economy.
They must be driven by the Board, led by the Chairman, and be embedded in the thinking and processes of the business.
As a Board, we are confident Regulation we have an excellent management team, and strong governance, to enable us to build a business that will deliver sustainable success in the future.
The regulation of the uK banking industry has changed significantly in my time as Chairman.
Since the 2008 financial crisis, regulators have made great progress in enhancing the financial stability of the industry and the future Community and culture regulatory framework is becoming clearer.
However the challenge continues lloyds Banking Group has a presence in practically every community across to be in striking the right balance between enhancing financial stability, and the uK.
We attach great importance to supporting these communities, ensuring innovation, competition and growth.
This not only strengthens our business, but also The lower risk inherent in a focused retail and commercial banking model helps to rebuild trust and confidence in the banking sector and underlines such as ours is now being recognised by regulators, as are the many changes the positive role banks should play in society as a whole.
Our commitment we have implemented to achieve a strong capital, liquidity and funding to these communities is demonstrated through a variety of initiatives which position.
We remain confident we will meet the latest regulatory capital continue to focus on our values of putting customers first, keeping it simple requirements when finalised, including the adoption of CRD IV, and the and making a difference together.
Group is considering opportunities to raise new Additional Tier 1 capital.
Actively supporting charitable causes has always been key to the Group and Discussions around the ring-fencing proposals for uK banks have continued I am proud to say we have already exceeded our initial 2 million target of to evolve through 2013, and although many details still remain unclear, fundraising for our Charity of the Year Alzheimers Society and Alzheimer our intention is to become a ring-fenced bank and meet the Independent Scotland, one year into our two year partnership with the charity.
This will Commission on Bankings 2019 deadline.
allow the delivery of the first phase of the live Well campaign, the first ever uK-wide dementia carers programme.
Through our Community Fund, now Dividends in its second year, we are helping local people across the uK have a positive effect in their communities.
In the past year the fund issued grants to over We were pleased to announce earlier this year that given the progress 1,500 local good causes in nearly 400 communities across the uK.
the Group has made in substantially strengthening its capital position and improving its financial performance, that the PRA has now confirmed it will In addition to these areas of current focus, we are one of the largest consider the Groups applications to make dividend payments in line with its community investors in the uK, providing 85 million per annum to worthy normal procedures for other banks.
In the light of this, and subject to a return causes through various initiatives, including our charitable foundations.
to sustainable profitability and there being no major unexpected changes in We celebrated the graduation of our first cohort of lloyds Scholars in the Groups business outlook or regulatory requirements, the Board expects the summer.
The scheme is a key part of our investment in the long-term that it will apply to the PRA in the second half of 2014 to restart dividend economic future of the uK and helps young people from lower income payments, commencing at a modest level.
I fully understand the difficulties households take their first steps on the career ladder.
We also encourage that the absence of dividends has caused our shareholders and I am our Scholars to volunteer in their local communities during the academic particularly pleased we have now reached this position.
year to add to the Groups wider support of communities.
Within lloyds Banking Group we recognise the value of diversity in our Directors colleagues.
Having a broad and representative mix of backgrounds and As announced in 2013, I will retire from the Group in April 2014.
I am experiences allows us to be more creative and maximise opportunities.
delighted lord Blackwell has been chosen to succeed me as Chairman.
The Groups diversity networks enjoyed a successful year in 2013 with He has an excellent understanding of the Group, having been a director more events, increased membership, and a wider awareness among of our Board and a member of the Groups Audit and Risk Committees colleagues.
The Groups recent commitment to ensuring that women hold since June 2012, and chairman of Scottish Widows plc from September 40 per cent of our top jobs by 2020 further demonstrates the importance of 2012.
He brings broad experience in banking, insurance and consultancy diversity in the Group.
The make-up of our workforce increasingly reflects to the position.
I am confident he will continue to take the Group forward the communities we serve, an important factor in helping the business to successfully in the years ahead.
understand them better and help them to prosper.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 10 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CHAIRMAnS STATeMenT Corporate and social responsibility We are beginning to regain the now more than ever, it is clear that doing business responsibly creates a more stable and successful future for the bank and for everyone it interacts trust of our customers and the with.
During my years as Chairman, we have done a great deal to rebuild Group is increasingly seen as a customer trust and colleague pride.
not only have we introduced more rigorous responsible business practices, but our renewed focus on helping leader in the banking industry.
Britain prosper has helped us to articulate how we contribute to the uKs long-term financial wellbeing.
Recent european legislation has introduced a cap on the variable element of We manage our business practices through our Responsible Business remuneration at 100 per cent of fixed remuneration, rising to 200 per cent if Committee RBC, which reports to the Group executive Committee on shareholders provide their consent.
To manage the impact of the legislation, a quarterly basis, and to the Board via the RBCs Chair, Anita Frew, one we intend to make changes to our executive remuneration structure through of our non-executive Directors.
In 2013, we continued to improve our the introduction of fixed share awards.
The awards would be delivered over governance structures, and now have all areas of the business represented five years to support the alignment of executive and shareholder interests.
on the RBC, to ensure effective management across the five pillars of our These changes will be subject to appropriate shareholder approval at the Codes of Responsible Business customers, colleagues, communities, the 2014 AGM.
There will be no increase to maximum remuneration at face environment, and relationships with our stakeholders.
These developments value as a result of these changes.
will help to drive more positive outcomes, and move us closer to being The 2013 bonus awards for executives have been determined against the best bank for customers which in turn will create sustainable value robust financial performance measures, and will continue to be deferred into for shareholders.
In recognition of the Groups performance The launch of our Helping Britain Prosper Plan in 2014 formalises our in 2013, the Remuneration Committee has decided to make an annual promise to make a difference in the areas where societys needs overlap performance award to Antnio Horta-Osrio, the Groups Chief executive most closely with our core business services.
Through seven commitments, Officer, of 1.7 million, payable in shares, with a five year deferral period.
backed by over 20 specific targets, I believe we can lead the industry in The award is subject to an additional condition requiring the share price to creating change in a meaningful and measurable way.
remain above 73.6p on average for any 126 consecutive trading days in the five years following grant or the uK government selling at least 50 per cent of its shareholding during the three years following grant.
The shares will not Remuneration be released before 2019.
Antnio has led the Group through a strong year The Remuneration Committee undertook a further review of colleague and resulting in the Group having the best performing share price amongst the executive remuneration in 2013.
Anthony Watson, the Committees Chairman, FTSe 100 banks in 2013. provides his annual review of our approach elsewhere in the report but, I am pleased to note that after many years of not meeting the performance given the importance of remuneration to our stakeholders and the Group, conditions under the long Term Incentive Plan lTIP, the strong I want as Chairman to give some context to the decisions we have taken.
performance on strategic and financial targets since 2011 resulted in the We continue to believe that remuneration policy at all levels, including for senior vesting of a portion of awards under the Plan.
The lTIP remains a core part executives, needs to incentivise staff to deliver strong, sustainable growth whilst of our reward strategy and the alignment of performance conditions with the reflecting the work required to reshape and transform the Group.
We strongly Groups strategic objectives ensures payouts, when they do occur as in this believe that we should align rewards to the longer term, sustainable success year, are aligned to shareholders objectives.
of our business and through this the delivery of value to shareholders.
In 2012, despite improved underlying performance, we took the decision Outlook to reduce the bonus pool significantly below on-target levels.
This reflected Investors have begun to value the simplicity and transparency of our the views of our stakeholders, the uncertain economic outlook and the uK focused retail and commercial banking business model, as set out in statutory loss for that year.
For 2013, underlying performance was stronger, 2011.
The perceptions of the Group among other influential stakeholders the economy is recovering, and the Group returned to pre-tax profit on a are also improving.
Above all, despite some continuing setbacks, we are statutory basis.
This improved performance, as shareholders are well aware, beginning to regain the trust of our customers and the Group is increasingly has been reflected in our share price, which rose 65 per cent in 2013, building seen as a leader in the banking industry.
on the 85 per cent increase in 2012.
In closing I would like to thank my fellow Board members, the senior In the light of the better results in 2013, the total bonus pool for the year leadership team and all colleagues for everything we have accomplished has been increased by approximately 8per cent to 395 million.
This once together at lloyds Banking Group in my years here.
Throughout my again is significantly below on-target levels, but recognises the efforts of our time I have been deeply impressed by the collegiate approach taken by employees in transforming the Group to a lower risk business and returning management and colleagues in delivering goals, and their desire to do the it to statutory profit.
They have executed our strategy with great commitment Group bonus scheme awards remain a very small percentage of revenues and enthusiasm.
I have also had great support from our shareholders large at approximately 2 per cent, and represent approximately 6 per cent of and small and I am grateful to them for their advice.
pre-bonus underlying profit before tax, compared to 12 per cent in 2012.
The significant progress on our strategy is demonstrated by much improved Cash bonuses are capped at 2,000 with additional amounts paid in shares financial results.
However, we will always be mindful not to become and subject to deferral and performance adjustment.
The average value of complacent or let past success diminish our future efforts.
In April I will hand bonuses paid per employee remains below 4,500. over to lord Blackwell a strong bank that is well-placed competitively and looks to the future with a good deal of confidence, which I share.
I wish the Group another successful year in 2014 and prosperity for many years ahead.
Sir Winfried Bischoff Chairman Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 10 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 A commitment to good governance The Board is committed to achieving long-term Board oversight key topics success for the Group, and governance plays an Throughout 2013 the Board continued to review the Groups corporate strategy, the operation of the business and our results within a framework integral part in ensuring consistency and rigour in of prudent and effective controls, including the assessment and decision making to allow us to maximise shareholder management of risks.
This framework allowed us to deal with key topics value over time.
arising throughout the year, including: the establishment of a committee to oversee the search and This remains uppermost in our minds when applying selection of a new Chairman of the Board, which is explained on the principles of the uK Corporate Governance Code page 82 published by the Financial Reporting Council.
the ongoing review of Board composition, including a number of The Board aims to exceed these principles as we new appointments which are explained on page 90 believe that good governance is a key contributor to a full analysis of the Groups performance against the 34 Salz Review the Groups long-term success.
recommendations, which is explained on page 90 the ongoing review and challenge of the Groups strategy and long Our Board term objectives, and the approval of the five year operating plan and annual budget The Board has seen a number of changes this year, and in line with the provisions of the uK Corporate Governance Code and the interests the ongoing review of the regulatory framework and the of good corporate governance, all Directors are required to submit implementation of changes to achieve a strong capital, liquidity and themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
We are committed to funding position ensuring we have the right balance of skills and experience within the the launch of TSB bank, an independent banking operation with Board, and we annually review its composition, and the diversity of approximately 600 branches across Britain backgrounds of its members.
ongoing oversight of conduct issues with an emphasis on embedding a culture of doing the right thing The Salz Review an ongoing review of the adequacy of provisions in relation to legacy The Salz Review was published in April 2013.
Whilst the review focused conduct issues such as Payment Protection Insurance PPI and the on issues and cultural behaviours that are specific to Barclays, it contains sale of interest rate hedging products to certain small and important lessons for all banks, and raises the expectation that all banks medium-sized businesses will consider whether selected issues exist in their own organisations.
With that in mind the nomination & Governance Committee which is chaired continued close scrutiny and control over executive remuneration by Sir Winfried Bischoff asked for a full analysis of the Groups performance arrangements, including adapting the structure to the requirements against the 34 Salz recommendations.
The findings of this analysis are set of CRD IV.
We continued to maintain open and effective out on page 90. engagement with shareholders on a range of remuneration matters a Board effectiveness Review in which all board members More on our 28 responsible business participated, expressed their views, had individual meetings with the Chairman and collectively discussed at the Board the overall findings More on 78 corporate governance of 75 different assessments More on 100 executive remuneration Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
