12 Overview London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Overview Experience, stability and trust are cornerstones of our industry and London Stock Exchange Group has a long and distinguished history of operating systemically important financial infrastructure.
Our role has been unequivocal and unwavering: it remains our belief that strong capital markets infrastructure is fundamental to any thriving and successful economy.
Throughout our history, we have facilitated the raising and allocation of capital, and the promotion of efficient markets that support growth and economic prosperity.
The impact of the financial crisis continues to be felt across the world, and with it there is a renewed focus on the need for systemically sound, strong financial infrastructure to support the global financial markets, business development and growth.
Many of the changes we are seeing in global policy and regulation reect this landscape, and the Group has never been more certain of the critical role it can play in these changing times.
Our diversication strategy Our diversication strategy has radically transformed the Group and we have achieved much in a relatively short period of time.
We are now a more has radically transformed international, diversied, multi-asset class, multi-market business.
The traditional notion of the Group as a domestic equities business is outmoded.
the Group and we have Yet, our core function of matching buyers with sellers and providing access to funding remains: we have simply added to it.
achieved much in a relatively Supporting the long term development of the whole funding ecosystem, short period of time.
We are particularly for SMEs, remains a passion for us.
Only when small and medium sized, fast growing businesses can successfully and efficiently tap into the now a more international, means by which to fuel their growth, will we see real economic prosperity.
Equity capital is often the most suitable form of finance for these fast growing diversied, multi-asset class, companies, be it seed capital, business angel investment, venture capital or the public markets.
It is critical to get the whole funding chain working multi-market business.
The Group put together a package of its own measures to support SMEs across Europe, and we very much welcome recent moves by the UK Government, in particular, to create an environment to support our best and brightest businesses, including policies to help facilitate increased investment in AIM-listed companies through the abolition of stamp duty on AIM shares.
This will help mobilise a wider pool of capital dedicated to SMEs and we remain committed to working with policymakers and market participants to ensure the future of these innovative and high-growth companies.
Strategic delivery In May 2013, we completed the acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet, which received the overwhelming support of both sets of shareholders.
The strategic rationale for the deal is very clear and delivers against many of our goals, and specically to develop our post trade offering.
The transaction is a crucial step in securing the enlarged Groups long term role in the operation of international capital markets and delivers opportunities for further international expansion, especially in the US and Asia.
The first full-year benets of the FTSE transaction are reected in our financial performance.
This is an example of how the Group is expanding its global footprint.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Chairmans statement 13 Our wider role The Groups scale and reach continue to grow, and with it we are acutely aware of the role we play in the communities in which we operate.
The Group donated 1,193,000 in the past year, of which 716,000 was donated through the Groups charitable Foundation.
The opportunity to create a lasting legacy through the work of the Foundation is reected in a focus on youth development.
In addition to the ongoing support of the Groups partner charities Friendship Works, In-Presa, UNICEF and Habitat for Humanity, London Stock Exchange recently joined Ladder for Londons apprenticeship scheme and has welcomed its first intake of apprentices.
This is in addition to the Groups successful graduate recruitment scheme.
We summarise our Corporate Responsibility activities on page 33 and in a fuller corporate report which can be accessed from our website.
Financial performance and dividend The transformation of the Group is reected in our financial performance.
Despite the prevailing challenges of current market conditions, we delivered a good financial performance.
Another measure of the successful delivery of our strategy has been our sustained strong share price performance, both relative to our global peer group and to the FTSE 100 index.
The Group is therefore proposing a four per cent increase in the final dividend to 19.8 pence per share, resulting in a full year dividend of 29.5 pence per share, a four per cent rise.
The final dividend will be paid to shareholders on the register as at 26 July 2013.
Board changes Doug Webb stepped down as Chief Financial officer after four busy years in the role.
He played a significant part in the recent strategic diversication, strong financial performance and growth of the organisation, and the Board is grateful for his contribution over this time.
David Warren joined the Group as CFO in July 2012, bringing a wealth of senior level experience both in finance and in running exchanges, including nine years as CFO at Nasdaq OMX.
We welcome Jacques Aigrain to the Board of Directors, following the completion of the acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
Jacques brings extensive experience, particularly in risk management, and I look forward to working with him more closely in the coming months.
During the period, a number of senior management changes and appointments were announced, details of which are included in the Chief Executives statement.
Conclusion This year marks the tenth anniversary of my chairmanship of the Group.
It has been an exciting decade.
I am incredibly proud of the business we are today and I believe that our core values have never been more relevant.
We are an international company, diversied and ambitious.
We remain rmly focused on executing our strategy, capitalising on the many opportunities that are available to us, particularly with regard to LCH.
Clearnet, and on creating long term value.
We are looking forward to another rewarding year ahead.
