03 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Chairmans statement Jon Aisbitt Chairman Chairmans review Effective distribution 2013 proved to be another tough year for our business.
While the first The Board has overseen the rationalisation of the retail structured product quarter saw a return to a more stable environment, the rest of the year distribution structure and the reorientation of the sales team to match the wasimpacted by uncertainty regarding the cessation of the US Federal increasing business focus on institutional flows.
It continues to monitor Reserves asset purchase programme which led to the fide-risking and sell the impact of the new sales compensation structure introduced last year off of bond and equity portfolios.
As a result, the performance of Mans to incentivise both the raising and retention of assets and create closer funds in these later quarters was mixed: certain GLG discretionary alignment with shareholder interests.
It is intent on achieving progress on strategies performed well while AHL and FRM returns were negative or flat.
fund raising in the key US market and is kept updated on significant hires The negative AHL performance resulted in a further reduction in our high to support this.
margin guaranteed product and the renewed volatility and uncertainty Balance sheet efficiency and cost reduction subdued investor appetite overall and resulted in a net outflow for the year.
In April 2013 Man announced the change in its regulatory status The headline results on the opposite page show the negative impacts frombeing a Full Scope to a Limited Licence group and the associated ofthis degear and net outflow on FUM and management fee revenues.
increase in surplus regulatory capital.
The Board elected to use some Cost savings and higher performance fees from GLG resulted in ofthis capital to repay all of the Groups debt and hybrid instruments.
increased adjusted profits for the year.
The Board focuses on adjusted Itreviews at every meeting progress on managements implementation profit as this reflects the recurring revenue and costs that drive our future ofthe ongoing cost reduction programme which is on track to deliver the cashflows.
Statutory profit was $56 million compared to a statutory loss total $270 million announced savings by the end of 2015. of $748 million in 2012.
Against this trading background, the Board has Dividend continued to focus on the core business priorities of driving strong In line with our previously stated policy, the Board has announced a investment performance, creating opportunities for growth, ensuring recommended final dividend of 5.3 cents per share, subject to approval effective distribution and delivering cost and balance sheet efficiency.
by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
In addition, it is our intention to launch Investment performance a $115 million share repurchase programme to return surplus capital to The performance of the individual investment managers is key to Mans shareholders, which will be conducted over the remainder of the year.
success and is closely monitored in both absolute and relative terms.
The Board receives regular data on the performance of the main competitor Board changes funds and examines our funds relative performance in some detail.
It 2013 saw substantial change to our Board.
At the end of February, as explores with AHL the impacts of the enhancements they have made to previously reported, Emmanuel Manny Roman was appointed as Chief Mans core momentum product and the comparison with the models Executive Officer in succession to Peter Clarke, and Alison Carnwath, a long usedby other trend followers.
It seeks explanations of the performance serving non-executive director, retired at our 2013 AGM.
Later in the year our ofindividual GLG discretionary strategies and teams.
The progress of the Senior Independent Director, Patrick OSullivan, stood down from the Board fund of funds business since the FRM acquisition is regularly reviewed.
and was succeeded in that role by Phillip Colebatch, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
We have been joined by two new non-executive Growth opportunities directors, Andrew Horton, Chief Executive Officer of Beazley, and Dev The Board keeps abreast of expert intelligence on projected hedge fund Sanyal, Executive Vice-President and Group Chief of Staff of BP, who bring industry growth and explores future asset raising potential.
It has discussed valuable strategy development, risk management and operational expertise with AHL the marketing of the Evolution strategy, diversification into broader from their executive roles.
Fred Jolly, who has served as a non-executive based quant products and the launch of new investment vehicles.
It has director for five years, will be retiring at our 2014 AGM.
We wish Fred and been kept updated on progress on the new GLG Multi-Asset Total Return those directors who have left the Board the very best for the future and and Fixed Income strategies and has recognised the opportunities for FRM extend a warm welcome to Andrew and Dev.
offered by its managed account platform.
In addition, we continue to review possible bolt-on and asset consolidation acquisitions which could diversify Outlook the Groups investment management offering.
The Board is confident in the executive team it has put in place and is pleased with the progress made in improving Mans capital and cost efficiency.
In 2014 we shall continue to work together to drive investment performance, diversify Mans product offering and grow the business in pursuit of improved long-term returns for our shareholders.
