58 Chairmans statement Gov Gove ernance Reshaped for growth In this, my last Annual Report after serving We set our sights on three years as Chairman, I am pleased to say that, despite a number of regulatory making 2013 a year of challenges, we achieved many of the transition for bwin.
party by objectives we set ourselves in 2013 to transition from merger integration to increasing our operational innovation in order to position bwin.
party to capitalise on growth opportunities.
focus on regulated and The transition required some big to-be-regulated markets, operational changes to reposition our improving how we develop business for the long term, most notably our decision to move from volume to and launch products value so that we can return the business to growth.
Declining returns and an and reducing our cost uncertain regulatory outlook in several basesignificantly.
countries prompted our decision to stop acquiring customers in 18 markets and shift the focus of our marketing expenditure onto nationally regulated andto-be-regulated markets.
The consequent rebasing and reshaping of our business is reflected in our softer financial performance in 2013 which, whilst painful, was a necessary precursor to being able to return to sustainable revenue growth.
This will come from the delivery of a suite of new gaming products through all channels, including mobile and touch, that is fast becoming the platform of choice for digital consumers.
The CEOs Review on pages 10 to 15 provides further details on what has already been achieved and what we hopeto deliver in 2014.
Board composition and governance In 2013 we achieved our objectives of reducing the size of the Board, appointing at least one female Director and achieving compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendation regarding the balance of independent andnon-independent Directors.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 59 In summary, the changes were: and expect them to make a nomination in due course.
On appointment of this t Sylvia Coleman joined the Board as an SpringOwl nominee, who will not be Independent Non-Executive Director on deemed independent, the Board will no 8 March 2013.
We remain committed to longer have a balance of independent and having at least two women serving on non-independent Directors, so the Board the Board by 2015 will have to appoint a new independent t Geoff Baldwin, Tim Bristow and Lord Director in order to comply with the UK Moonie each stepped down, reducing Corporate Governance Code.
the number of Directors to nine Dividend This resulted in a Board, excluding The Board is recommending a final the Chairman, comprising four dividend of 1.80p per share which, independent Directors and four together with the interim dividend of non-independent Directors.
1.80p, makes atotal dividend of 3.60p per share for the year ended 31 December As in 2013, all Directors, excluding 2013 2012: 3.44p.
The final dividend, if myself, will be standing for re-election approved at the 2014 AGM, will be paid on at the 2014 AGM.
Further details are contained down at the conclusion of the AGM in the AGM Notice.
The Board, led by the independent Directors and supported Share buyback by an independent recruitment firm, At the 2013 AGM shareholders renewed are progressing with a search for the authority to repurchase up to 10% my successor and it is expected that ofthe Companys issued share capital at an announcement about the new the 2013 AGM and in the 2013 half-year Chairmans appointment will be made in results announcement we expressed an advance of the AGM.
I wish the Company intention to purchase up to 10m worth every success as it continues with the ofshares over the following 12 months implementation of its strategy and seeks aspart of the Companys distribution to capitalise on the opportunities it faces.
During 2013 the Company In February 2014 SpringOwl Partners B purchased a total of 2,635,677 shares Gibraltar Limited SpringOwl acquired at atotal purchase price of 3,513,586. a 6% stake in bwin.
party, together Sincetheyear-end a further 500,000 with the Director nomination right shares havebeen purchased for a total under the relationship agreement cost, including commission, of 577,437. between the Company and Emerald Allpurchased shares have been cancelled.
Bay Limited and Stinson Ridge Limited entered into at the time of the merger of PartyGaming with bwin Interactive Simon Duffy Entertainment AG.
To date SpringOwl Chairman hasnot formally nominated an individual for appointment to the Board, however, we are in discussions with SpringOwl
