2 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Chairmans Statement Over the year to 31st January 2013, the Company delivered a positive share price return of 29.0%.
Although the Managers marginally underperformed the Companys benchmark with a return of 26.6%, against 27.2% for the benchmark, this was more than made up for by a narrowing of the discount.
Returns and Dividends Earnings per share increased by 0.6 % for the year, from 31.9 p to 32.1p.
The Company has paid three interim dividends of 6.0p per ordinary share, and the Directors have declared a fourth quarterly interim dividend of 18.0p, giving a total dividend of 36.0p for the year, maintaining last years dividend of 36.0p.
In order to even out the flow of dividends paid during the year, the Board intends to increase the level of the three interim dividends from 6.0p to 8.0p per ordinary share throughout the current year ending 31st January 2014.
This is a rebalancing exercise and will not necessarily result in an increased total amount for the year.
The level of the final interim dividend will be determined by the Board towards the end of the financial year and will depend on the level of dividends received and anticipated by the Company and take account of the Companys revenue reserve.
Share Buy Backs During the year under review a total of 255,000 shares were repurchased for cancellation, amounting to 0.26% of issued share capital at the beginning of the year, at a total cost of 2.79 million.
Share buy backs during the year under review have added approximately 0.37 pence to the net asset value per share.
The Board continues to use the share repurchase authority to manage imbalances between the supply and demand of the Companys shares, thereby reducing the volatility of the discount.
The Board believes that, to date, this mechanism has been helpful and therefore proposes and recommends that the powers to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys shares for cancellation be renewed for a further period.
Gearing The Company ended the year with gearing of 3%.
During the year the gearing varied between 3% net cash and 15% geared.
It is the Boards intention to continue to operate within the range of 10% net cash and 20% geared, under normal market conditions, and, at the present time, the Company is employing minimal gearing.
Gearing is regularly discussed between the Board and the Investment Manager.
The Company does not currently have a borrowing facility in place other than the Companys outstanding debenture issues.
Board All Directors stand for annual re-election.
I refer you to the Directors biographies on pages 17 and 18 for further details.
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its performance, and that of the individual Directors including myself as the The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 3 Chairman.
The Directors conduct an assessment of performance each year, which is compiled into a report to the Nomination Committee which in turn reports its conclusions to the Board.
Investment Managers During the year under review, the Companys investment management team appointed by JPMorgan comprised Martin Hudson, Guy Anderson who joined the team in a senior capacity in August last year, and Anthony Lynch.
As I explained in my statement last year, a detailed review of the Manager was conducted during 2012, which has led to some changes in the way that the portfolio is managed.
The Board believes that these changes have been beneficial to the management of the Companys assets.
The Board will continue to monitor the performance of the Manager on a regular basis.
Annual General Meeting The Companys one hundred and twenty seventh Annual General Meeting will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday, 22nd May 2013 at 12 noon.
In addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
The meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch which will give shareholders an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of JPMAM.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at the meeting.
Outlook The outlook for the current year looks more favourable than at this time last year despite the continuing instability of the Eurozone, the weakening of Sterling, and the issues surrounding the US fiscal cliff.
The opportunities are more likely to be company specific as the focus within corporates moves from cost efficiency to investing for growth, taking advantage of strong balance sheets and the cheap credit on offer to publicly listed companies which can be used to fund both capital expenditure and acquisitions.
Against this backdrop, UK mid and small sized companies are attractively valued and offer the Managers opportunities to increase shareholder value.
Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman 21st March 2013 For further information, please contact: Juliet Dearlove For and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited Company Secretary 020 7742 4000
