The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder We now have a thirty year history of increasing the dividend and a further modest increase is proposed for this year.
With earnings growing faster than dividends, the proposed dividend is close to being covered and this leaves the revenue reserve almost untouched.
Market Background Net Revenue Return and Dividends Economic growth was subdued in most of the Net Revenue Return per share rose by 4.1% to developed world.
However, the stock market had 22.9p.
The board is recommending a final ordinary a strong year, particularly in the second half, in dividend of 5.8p per share, payable on 15 May response to ECB commitment to defend the Euro 2013 to shareholders on the register on 12 April and US actions to defer the fiscal cliff of spending 2013.
This payment would give a total of 23.2p cuts and tax rises.
Within the UK stock market for the year, an increase of 0.9% over the total for the strongest returns were seen in medium sized the previous year.
In order to meet the payment companies, outside the FTSE 100 Index, as investor it has been necessary to transfer 313,802 0.3p risk appetite increased.
per share from our revenue reserves, compared to a transfer of 1,026,885 1.0p per share last Results year.
As at 31 January 2013 and after providing for this transfer and the dividend payment, the trusts The investment portfolio produced a capital return revenue reserves amounted to 11,544,018 11.2p of 14.8%, ahead of the 10.5% return on the FTSE per share.
Including income, the total return of the investment portfolio was 20.1% which was further The outlook for dividend growth is reasonable, ahead of the 14.8% total return on the FTSE 100 with many companies having rebuilt their balance Index.
The net asset value total per share rose by sheets and dividend cover since the economic 16.0% to 466.5p.
The net asset value total return per downturn.
The recent decline in the value of share, including dividends paid, was 21.8%.
sterling, if sustained, should be beneficial to future income prospects.
The board and the manager The company has benefited from the pull to par continue to remain focused on providing long term as the companys debt has decreased in value steady income growth.
and, using the market value of debt, the net asset value per share rose by 18.5% or by 24.9% including dividends.
The full performance breakdown is Investment trust tax rules shown on page 22 of the Annual Financial Report.
New legislation for investment trusts has recently Over the year, the companys share price rose by been introduced and one of the changes has 13.7% from 363.0p to 412.7p.
The total return on resulted in the removal of the prohibition on the the companys shares including dividends was distribution of capital profits by way of dividend.
The fund has performed ahead of the FTSE The board therefore intends to seek shareholder 100 Index over the past three years.
At 25 March approval at the annual general meeting to amend 2013, the trusts ordinary shares yielded 5.4% the Articles of Association to permit the distribution compared with the yield on the FTSE 100 Index of of capital profits by way of a dividend.
There is more detail on the major contributors noted that this does not in any way indicate that to our performance in our Investment Managers there will be a change in the companys dividend Review starting on page 10 of the Annual Financial policy, or how profits for dividends are generated or Report.
calculated, nor that there is any current intention to utilise capital profits in this way.
The board believes this change will provide greater flexibility for dividends in the future.
Further information is set out in the Directors Report on page 33.
4 Chairmans Statement continued Fortunately, there are Strategic Report Gearing many strong, UK-quoted This year on page 6 we include an introductory The company continues to have long term debt businesses with operations Strategic Report.
Next year we will expand on this amounting to 111 million.
This is all deployed in around the world, which can progress in this report which will replace the Business Review in the the market for investment purposes.
At the end of environment.
Directors Report on pages 25 to 32. the year our gearing level was 23.0% compared to 26.8% at the start of the year.
Derivatives The Board As set out in the previous report, we have continued our policy of selectively writing call options on a The current board has four directors and although limited number of the trusts holdings.
Writing it is a small board, as you will see from our options has provided helpful additional income biographies on page 24, the directors have a in a period where revenues have been under range of professional and industrial backgrounds pressure.
At no point in the year did the exposure and experience.
We meet annually specifically to to derivatives exceed 15% of the portfolio.
A more consider strategy with our managers and advisers, detailed explanation is set out in the Investment covering a variety of topics relevant to the company Managers Review.
and more details can be found in the Strategic Report on page 6.
Retail Distribution Review We are each standing for re-election this year and In preparation for the changes to the way will continue to do this annually.
individuals can invest in funds brought about by the Retail Distribution Review the board has Annual General Meeting continued to boost the marketing of The Merchants The annual general meeting of the company will Trust to generate interest in the companys shares.
be held on Friday 10 May 2013 at 12.00 noon at We have launched a dedicated website Holborn Bars, 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N www.
co. uk and have increased 2NQ and we look forward to seeing as many online and press advertising and we are pleased shareholders then as are able to attend.
to have seen this result in wider coverage in the investment press.
Outlook The economic outlook remains uncertain with growth Operating Expenses likely to be constrained in the medium term by high During the year the Association of Investment debt levels.
Fortunately, there are many strong, UKCompanies changed the recommended way of quoted businesses with operations around the world, reporting the costs of running an investment which can progress in this environment.
Our fund company from the Total Expenses Ratio to Ongoing managers are still able to identify attractive, dividend Charges.
We report against both measures on page paying companies trading on sensible valuations.
3 and give details and an explanation on page 26.
Merchants remains focused on delivering long term dividend and capital growth.
AIFMD Another development to affect our industry is the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
This will introduce additional regulatory oversight for investment trusts and other types of funds and comes into effect later this year.
We will review its application during the coming year.
