Chairmans review We will now run our businesses, , as a unified operation.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE Chairman 2012 13 Highlights 2012 13 has been a milestone year for our Company.
It has been a year in which we executed several key Dividend of strategic initiatives, most notably selling our Macau and US4cents Islands businesses to focus the Group on one region pan-America.
Agreed sale of Cable & Wireless Communications historic operating majority of Monaco model has been as a telecoms finance house, owning & Islands division for and managing a portfolio of assets.
The strategic shift US$680 million we have undertaken during the year has converted the Group to being a telecoms operator.
Agreed sale of Macau We will now run our businesses, in the Caribbean division for a total and Panama, as a unified operation.
This will involve consideration of establishing a totally different structure for managing the Group and its operations, with the Groups central US$750 million function and operational control co-located in a new facility in the region.
With this structure we will be able to reduce the layers of management, bring our best talent to exercise management control across the region and reinforce the accountability of our front line managers.
It is a clear break from the traditional approach of CWC, and Cable & Wireless Group before that, but it is the organisational approach that best captures the opportunity for our business and hence for establishing sustainable value for the firm.
The fundamental drivers of our business remain strong.
In the pan-America region demand for the mobile and fixed data services we provide is growing.
Our business posted a 34% increase in mobile data service revenues in 2012 13 and the penetration of data services in the region is still below developed markets such as the US and Europe.
04 Cable & Wireless Communications Positive value Th e fundamental drivers of our business remain strong.
A focus on governance Key Performance Indicators The Board remains committed to the high We track a range of measures to monitor standards of corporate governance that we our operations and services.
have developed over several years.
For more information 38 For more information 14 Ahead of full implementation of the changed approach Group revenue of US$1.9 billion and EBITDA of we are also improving the productivity of the business, US$589 million represented a solid performance, and by tackling our cost base, particularly in the Caribbean.
our cash generation was strong.
For a full commentary This will improve our margins as well as the services we on the results, please see the Finance review on provide to customers.
The new approach will, however, not affect our business As we continue the process of change we remain practices or corporate standards.
The growth and committed to maintaining returns to our shareholders development of this Group over its history has been via our dividend.
The Board has recommended a dividend based on strong ethical principles, which will remain of US4 cents for the 2012 13 year, and committed firmly embedded in our organisation.
to maintaining the US4 cents payment in 2013 14.
We aim to progressively grow our dividend in line We have always been a vital part of the communities we with future performance.
serve from providing the technology and networks that our customers use to connect with each other, to Finally, these results and the transformation of the our support for the key institutions of the societies we business would not have been possible without the operate in.
efforts of our committed colleagues.
Those who will leave the Group with the disposals, and those who For example, we take a firm public stance against remain, have done an excellent job in meeting the needs corruption and unethical business practice.
On behalf of the Board, I thank them damages business, discourages investment, stifles all for their efforts.
innovation and ultimately costs consumers.
CWC already has rigorous procedures in place to attempt to prevent Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE improper activities in our business, and we have set several further priorities to improve our practices, as well as setting an example to our industry.
We have set out further detail on our position in the CSR report on pages 20 to 23.
With all the activity during the year devoted to progressing complex portfolio changes we were constantly aware of the risk of distraction from our usual attention to operational supervision.
However, amid a very active year for the business, we have also achieved a strong operating performance, delivering the results we forecast at the start of the year.
