Chairmans Statement Performance After the flat performance of last year it has been pleasing to see a total return of 18.8% in Net Asset Value NAV and one of 21.5% in the share price, compared to a total return of 17.9% from the FTSE All-Share Index.
The UK performed similarly to most developed equity markets as they enjoyed the powerful stimuli of continued extreme monetary ease and a perception, gradually a reality, that economic Patrick Gifford performance was improving.
In an important contrast the Chairman performance of gilts, which had been so striking in the Companys last financial year, was much less impressive with Highlights a fall in the 25-year gilt on a total return basis of 5.1% Total Dividend increased by 3.4% to 30.75p producing a rise in yield to 3.5%.
The performance of the Net Asset Value Total Return 18.8% market was a product of profit growth of 1% and a re-rating Share Price Total Return 21.5% on a trailing Price-Earnings Ratio basis from 10.8x to 13.5x.
The shift in the economic position was brought home very clearly by the reaction to Mr Bernankes essentially unsurprising statement that the Federal Reserve was considering plans to taper the amount of Quantitative Easing or unusual monetary stimulus provided to the US economy later in the year.
Against a background of extended bond markets and an overbought equity market in the short term markets reacted quite violently, with the All-Share Index falling by 11.3% and the 25-year gilt by 10.4% from their peaks to troughs.
By the end of our year, markets seem to have decided that this was a nightmare that could safely be dismissed without the prospect of becoming reality.
The position in other markets was less attractive.
The muchhyped BRICs all experienced difficult conditions, in response to weak commodity markets Brazil and Russia a creditable effort to re-balance the economy China and a backlash from trying to grow without sufficient savings India.
In addition, riots in Brazil and Turkey emphasized that political instability can appear without much warning, and indeed remains a risk in some countries within the European Union.
Dividend Net revenue return per share rose for the year by 1.6% from 30.6p per share to 31.1p per share.
Underlying this small increase the trends are more favourable.
Income from investments increased by 6.3% albeit with the inclusion of two special dividends which did not, however, match the one paid by Vodafone last year.
Although these special dividends reflected a reduction in the capital available to the companies, they represented the return to shareholders of reserves created by historically cautious dividends and therefore have been recognised as revenue by the Company.
Income from the sale of options also decreased.
It has been difficult to manage the income account over the last five years and we have been materially aided by VAT repayments and option income over that period.
However, the former have now ended and the latter has reduced against a background of improving corporate profits and dividends, 4 Murray Income Trust PLC which herald a return to a more normal structure for the AIFMD income account.
After consideration, the Board has agreed in principle to appoint a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC as During the year the dividends were rebalanced in order to the Companys AIFM as required by the Alternative increase the proportion of distributable revenue paid through Investment Fund Managers Directive which came into force the interim dividends.
Accordingly, s ubject to approval at on 22 July 2013.
The Board fully expects to be able to the Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 9.75p per implement the changes with Aberdeen Asset Managers Ordinary share will be paid on 29 October 2013 to Limited and other service providers prior to the expiry of the shareholders on the register on 27 September 2013.
The exAIFMDs transitional arrangements in July 2014. dividend date is 25 September 2013.
This is a reduced final dividend payment compared to the 13.25p paid in the prior Outlook year, however, overall the full year dividend payment has After a very good year which has continued the bull market increased by 3.4% for the current year.
which began in the gloomy depths of spring 2009 it is worth re-examining whether the forces that have sustained it are Share Capital still intact.
To a great extent they are.
Monetary ease is likely The Companys shares have traded at a premium to NAV for to be with us for some time yet though Mr Bernankes almost all of the year ended 30 June 2013.
As a result we statements about a potential policy shift seem entirely have been able to issue 1,127,000 new shares and re-issue appropriate.
For equity markets it is important that there are 466,000 treasury shares all at a small premium to NAV.
This signs that economic activity is getting stronger.
The UK creates a small enhancement to NAV and mitigates the seems at last to be a fuller participant in this than it has been likelihood of disappointing share price returns from purchase over the last three years.
Such an improvement is likely to be at a high premium and subsequent, possibly much later, sale associated with improved credit growth even if liquidity is at a reduced premium or at a discount.
It is also clear that reined in slightly.
The prospects for help for equities from the many of the buyers of our shares are self-managed gilt market however, seem remote.
Even with the setback of execution-only, individuals.
On a net basis we estimate that the last year real yields remain derisory, and incidentally very such shareholdings have increased by 2.3m shares over the attractive to governments, and only the onset of deflation last year.
We are pleased to see this.
It may be that the can raise them without a fall in gilt prices and a rise in transparency required by the Retail Distribution Review has nominal yields.
Even if central banks are slightly war-weary, caused individuals to decide to handle their investments deflation at this point doesnt seem a likely outcome.
With themselves rather than pay intermediary fees.
It is also a no support for a further re-rating from this source, and even logical response to low nominal rates of return.
Through the the possibility of some undermining, equities are now very Companys website and the availability of hard copy reports dependent on the rate of profit growth of companies.
At we and Aberdeen Asset Managements marketing present the Manager is forecasting profits growth of 7.3% for department do try to keep shareholders informed.
However, the FTSE All-Share Index for the year to 30 June 2014. the main opportunity for direct contact is at the Annual Against a background of what our managers consider to be General Meeting and we hope that many individual fair valuation for the market overall returns should be close shareholders will attend.
to this growth barring any positive or negative shocks.
Our own portfolio consists of relatively resilient companies which should protect us against adverse changes while probably not Board Changes containing the greatest beneficiaries from unexpected After serving on the Board since 2004, including as Chairman cyclical growth.
We expect that such positioning will of the Audit Committee, Humphrey van der Klugt has continue to deliver the relatively stable and attractive returns decided not to seek re-election at the Annual General seen over recent years.
We have very much valued his contribution particularly on investment and as a diligent and sharp-eyed Patrick Gifford Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Chairman 11 September 2013 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday 25 October 2013 at The London Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 33 Queen Street, London, EC4R 1AP at 12.30 p. m. The Notice of Annual General Meeting is on pages 57 to 60.
It is the Boards intention to hold the 2014 Annual General Meeting in Glasgow.
