Strategic Report - Chairmans Statement Europe.
Equity multiples increased and dividend yields fell as positive sentiment proved a dominant force.
Even the prospect of reduced monetary stimulus in the United States was not enough to dent these hopeful expectations.
Setbacks occurred, but were not sustained for long.
An about turn in sentiment towards emerging markets also featured prominently as investors judged that any reduction in US monetary stimulus would cause an outflow of capital Kevin Carter from these markets.
This became self-fulfilling as emerging Chairman market currencies and capital markets experienced material declines.
The Trust was caught in the crossfire of this large Highlights change in sentiment, even though the basic long-term x Net Asset Value return with income reinvested of fundamentals for these markets remain sound.
Rising real 4.6% income growth, abundant resources of natural materials and x Benchmark Total Return of 21.2% numerous growth opportunities were increasingly ignored by x Total Ordinary dividend increased by 6.2% all but committed long term investors.
In its desire for longcompared with 2012 term balanced, diversified exposure to fulfil its investment x 43m of new shares issued at a premium during the objectives, the Trust therefore experienced a painful period of year relative performance.
The portfolio remained focused on quality and the Manager kept alert to valuation levels.
Given current uncertainties maintaining investment Performance discipline is all important.
At the beginning of 2013 conservative expectations would have been satisfied by a prospective increase of 4.6% in net Dividends asset value total return plus a 6.2% increase in a fully covered dividend.
In the event this was achieved.
We have been able to continue the trend of increasing the Unfortunately, however, this represented the Trusts largest level of dividends paid and three interim dividends of 9.5p annual relative underperformance against its benchmark for were declared 2012: three interims of 9.0p.
Your Board is a very long time.
Exceptional returns from low yielding now recommending a final dividend of 14.5p 2012: 13.5p markets such as the United States and Japan, to which the which, subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual Trust is underexposed, drove the composite benchmark General Meeting, will be paid on 16 May 2014 to higher, whilst overexposure to out of favour regions such as shareholders on the register on 4 April 2014.
Subject to the Latin America and Asia adversely affected relative approval of the final dividend, the total Ordinary dividend for performance.
The Managers Review on page 9 in the Report the year will amount to 43.0p, an increase of 6.2% from last contains an attribution analysis which shows the factors year 2012: 40.5p.
B Ordinary shares will receive their affecting net asset performance.
Outwith the positives of capitalisation issue of B Ordinary shares at the same time as preserving capital and growing the dividend, contributions each dividend is paid.
Accordingly, subject to approval at the from asset allocation and stock selection were mostly Annual General Meeting, B Ordinary shareholders will be negative on total relative performance.
The issued on 16 May 2014 with new B Ordinary shares underperformance against the benchmark resulted in the equivalent in Net Asset Value to the recommended final Company clawing back 5.3 million of previously earned but dividend for the year just ended.
unpaid performance fees in accordance with the terms of the management agreement.
Issue of New Shares At the Annual General Meeting held in April 2013 Background shareholders renewed the annual authority to issue up to Monetary policy in the US and the UK saw no change to 10% of the Companys issued share capital for cash at a abnormally low short term interest rates and ongoing bond premium to the prevailing asset value at the time of each purchases by central banks through quantitative easing issue.
During the year we have continued to see a strong programmes.
Japan also embraced this formula and the demand for the Companys shares resulting in the issue of European Central Bank indicated its willingness to join in as 3.8 million new Ordinary shares.
These new shares were the year progressed.
Faced with this environment, and with issued predominantly in the first half of the year which real returns not available on cash, stock markets rose.
helped to minimise the effect of revenue dilution.
The Board Ignoring still fragile economic fundamentals in most of the will be seeking approval from shareholders to renew the developed world, liquidity found its way into perceived safe authority to issue new shares for cash in 2014 and as in haven equity markets such as the United States, the UK and previous years, to avoid diluting the asset value of existing 6 Murray International Trust PLC shareholders, new shares will only be issued at a premium to might have for the Company.
Among matters of significance net asset value.
Resolutions to this effect will be proposed at to the Company would be currency arrangements, financial the Annual General Meeting and the Directors strongly regulation and the tax regime of an independent Scotland.
encourage shareholders to support this proposal.
Subsequent The Board is continuing to monitor developments closely but to the period end, the Ordinary shares have continued to considers that it is too early to prejudge the outcome of a trade at a premium to NAV per share albeit at a reduced vote, or of any subsequent negotiations as they may affect level.
At the time of writing the inclusive of income NAV per the Trust and its shareholders.
share was 949.45p and the share price was 995.0p equating to a premium of 4.8% per share.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held in London on Gearing 29 April 2014 at 12.30 p. m. at the Mermaid Conference At the year end total borrowings amounted to the equivalent Centre, Puddle Dock, London EC4V 3DB.
As at previous of 190.8 million representing net gearing of 15.1% 2012: AGMs, there will be a presentation from the Manager and an 10.1% of which approximately 70.7 million has been opportunity to meet the Directors and Manager and ask drawn in Yen with the remainder drawn in sterling.
I would be grateful if you would confirm your the year the Company negotiated two new 60 million attendance by completing the notice that will accompany facilities with the Royal Bank of Scotland RBS which were the Annual Report and returning it together with an both drawn in full and fixed for five years.
At the same time indication of any particular questions.
I hope as many as two maturing Yen loans totalling Yen 8.2 billion were repaid.
possible will be able to attend.
Subsequent to the period end a new 15 million facility has been agreed with RBS and drawn in full, fixed for just over Directorate two years.
The new facility was used to repay a maturing Fred Shedden has indicated that he intends to retire from the Yen 2.3 billion loan with surplus funds invested in the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on portfolio.
At the year end the proportion of net assets 29 April 2014.
Fred joined the Board in 2000 and has served invested in equities was 106% 2012 - 104%.
the Company in exemplary fashion as both Senior Independent Director and as Chairman of the Audit Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Committee.
I would like to join with my fellow Directors in Shareholders will be aware of the Alternative Investment thanking Fred for his wise counsel and support, and for the Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD, which creates a contribution that he has made to the smooth and effective European-wide framework for regulating managers of running of the Board since 2000. alternative investment funds AIFs.
Listed investment companies such as Murray International Trust fall within the In advance of Freds retirement, Marcia Campbell has now definition of an AIF.
The AIFMD is intended to reduce assumed the role of Audit Committee Chairman and I am systemic risk created by the financial sector and aims to pleased to advise that Lady Balfour has agreed to become improve regulation, enhance transparency and investor Senior Independent Director with effect from Freds protection, develop a single EU market for AIFs and retirement.
Lady Balfour has served on the Board for more implement effective mechanisms for microand macrothan nine years, but, as explained on page 33 in the prudential oversight.
The AIFMD came into force in July 2013 Statement of Corporate Governance, the Board considers all but a transitional period means that investment companies Directors to be independent of the Manager and her broad have until July 2014 to comply with the relevant regulations.
experience on the Companys Board and elsewhere makes Your Board has agreed in principle to appoint a subsidiary of her ideally suited for the role of Senior Independent Director.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC to act as the Companys AIFM and is currently in the process of finalising the The Board via the Nomination Committee is searching for a appointment of a Depositary as well as revising the new independent non executive Director and has engaged investment management agreement, both consequences of the services of an independent recruitment consultant to implementing the AIFMD.
Scottish Independence Outlook On 18 September this year voters in Scotland will be asked At any point in time, the level of share prices is governed by the question Should Scotland be an independent country?
an interplay between economic and company fundamentals, in a referendum.
In the event of a majority Yes vote and investor sentiment.
Reflecting on the past year, Scotland would be likely to secede from the United Kingdom sentiment has played an unusually large role in the relative some time in 2016.
As the Trust is registered in Scotland, pricing of currencies and assets in developed and developing the Board has been considering the implications that this countries.
This is neither new nor unprecedented in the Murray International Trust PLC 7 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement continued behavioural science of investment, but it nevertheless presented a tough environment for the Trust to negotiate.
As central banks attempt to reduce excessive monetary stimulus, steer a path between economic recovery or recession and encourage fiscal prudence, sentiment changes will likely continue to feature prominently.
The gap between positive perceptions of the developed world and negative views of developing nations has seldom been as great, even while the reality of long-term fundamentals suggests a very different picture.
This will give rise to investment opportunities for those able to practise true global diversification and Murray International's flexible mandate will allow it to seek out such opportunities in the year ahead.
Kevin Carter Chairman 10 March 2014 8 Murray International Trust PLC
