CHAIRMANS MESSAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS Overview of the year activities, the key performance indicators 2013 was a year of 2013 was a year of achievement for the by which we monitor progress and the main achievement for the Old Mutual Group: we delivered substantial elements of our current strategy.
This is growth in our net client cash flows and funds intended to be helpful to you in gaining a Old Mutual Group.
under management: we reduced our level of good understanding of our major businesses gearing: and we made progress in relation and the opportunities that exist, throughout to our strategy for growth, particularly in new the Group, to grow value for both customers markets in East and West Africa.
In South Africa, the exchange rate of the rand We have also, this year, divided our Directors against sterling weakened by 27% over the Remuneration Report into two sections: one of year, which reduced our reported earnings in these sets out the Directors Remuneration sterling from what they would otherwise have Policy which will be subject to a formal been.
Our adjusted operating earnings per binding vote at least every three years and the share were 18.4 pence, 5% higher than in 2012 other is the Annual Report on Remuneration, but, if we exclude the effect of currency which explains the directors remuneration in depreciation, up by 21% on a constant 2013 and how the policy will be implemented currency basis.
Group IFRS profit after tax from continuing Responsible business operations was 980 million: this was 7% We recognise that, in many markets in which higher than in 2012 and 24% higher on a we operate, we have a responsibility and constant currency basis.
opportunity to help customers at the lower end of the market to access appropriate financial During the year we continued to execute services products that deliver value for them.
our debt repayment programme and have Our approach, as a business with a long-term now achieved our target, with total repayments perspective, is to set and attain specific targets of 1.7 billion.
The Group now has a strong for our responsible business objectives.
high quality balance sheet and levels of In this way, we provide a better service to our regulatory capital that should give comfort customers, supporting the communities in which to all our stakeholders.
Further details about our targets in this area are contained in our Responsible Board developments and Business Report for 2013.
Group employees Since last years report, we have recruited Conclusion three new independent non-executive directors We are starting to see some signs of economic to the Old Mutual plc Board, thereby widening recovery, albeit that markets where the Group the Boards skills and experience, which will be operates are growing at different rates.
invaluable as we continue to pursue our stated The current tapering of US quantitative strategy.
These appointments also brought easing is creating uncertainty and the wider the number of female Board members to four, Patrick OSullivan consequences of this around the globe are, as which achieves, nearly two years early, yet, unpredictable.
Macro factors such as this CHAIRMAN the Davies target of at least 25% female will affect our customers, but, as you will read representation.
In December 2013, we from commentary specific to our individual announced that our Group Finance Director, businesses elsewhere in this Annual Report, we Philip Broadley, would be leaving the Board expect to see continued underlying strength in during 2014.
On behalf of the Board, I thank our core markets.
Our strategy remains clear: him for his major contribution to the Group it delivered value for our shareholders in 2013 over the past five years.
and we have every expectation that it will continue to do so in the future.
Our employees dedication and commitment to our values are exceptional.
I would like to thank them for all they contribute, while Patrick OSullivan embracing change with enthusiasm!
Chairman Changes to the structure of this years Annual Report We have restructured this years Annual Report, in line with recent developments in UK reporting practice.
In our Strategic Review, we have set out an overview of the Groups Old Mutual plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
