Chairmans statement The year ended 30 September 2013 has been a successful period for the Group, the business has performed strongly and signi cant progress has been made in laying the foundations for further, sustainable growth for the future.
Pro ts have grown strongly to a record level for the Group and our portfolio of loans, including acquired assets, continues to perform well.
Other key performance metrics show trends consistent with recent periods: organic cash generation remains strong: redemptions remain low: and, across the portfolio, credit performance is strong, in line with our expectations.
Asset growth has also been achieved in the year, with loan assets and investments increasing to 8,825.3 million from 8,703.7 million a year earlier.
Our Idem Capital portfolio acquisitions business added 92.8 million of new investments during the year and a further 13.5 million shortly after the year end.
In Paragon Mortgages, buy-to-let loan completions nearly doubled to 359.8 million and, in our Moorgate loans servicing business, agreements to manage two new portfolios were completed.
The year has seen signi cant investment aimed at securing growth in future periods.
This investment has taken two forms, first, increasing funding capacity for the existing businesses and, second, undertaking preparatory work to establish new business activities.
Bob Dench On funding, warehouse capacity for buy-to-let lending has been increased in the year Chairman to 450.0 million.
This amount was considerably in excess of the funding requirements of the mortgage business at the start of the year but, together with the success of the Paragon Mortgages No.
18 securitisations during the year, has provided the capacity to allow Paragon Mortgages to signi cantly increase its lending activity.
In addition, the Group completed its first retail bond offering in March, a 60.0 million issue maturing in 2020, which, together with our organic cash ow, will support growth in both Paragon Mortgages and Idem Capital going forward.
On new business activities, we have previously commented on our desire to recommence consumer lending, which we expect to operate through a new banking subsidiary to be established within the Group.
This remains our objective and preparations for the new bank are well advanced.
During the year ended 30 September 2013 the Groups pro t before taxation increased by 10.4% to 105.4 million 2012: 95.5 million.
Underlying pro t, before fair value items, increased by 10.5% to 104.1 million for the year 2012: 94.2 million.
Earnings per share were 28.4p 2012: 24.2p, the increase of 17.4% from last year re ecting the improved pro ts earned by the Group and the reduction in the tax rate.
The increase in pro t has also improved the Groups return on equity to 10.2% from 9.3% for the previous year note 5.
The Groups strategic focus has remained unchanged: to generate growth through our buy-to-let origination franchise and through investment in loan portfolios: to exploit new opportunities, including the establishment of a banking subsidiary to undertake consumer lending, nanced primarily by retail deposits: and to maintain close management of the existing loan portfolio, which continued to perform well in the year.
In view of the results achieved and in line with the new dividend policy announced last year, the Board has proposed a final dividend of 4.8p per share 2012: 4.5p which, when added to the interim dividend of 2.4p, gives a total dividend of 7.2p per share for the year 2012: 6.0p, an increase of 20.0%, covered 3.9 times by earnings note 5.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 6 February 2014, the dividend will be paid on 10 February 2014, by reference to a record date of 10 January 2014.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 6 A.
Strategic report The business has STRATEGIC REPORT performed strongly During the year ended 30 September 2013 the UK Government issued new requirements requiring all companies to produce a strategic report, with additional requirements for listed companies.
This and signi cant must cover such matters as the Groups development and performance in the year and its position progress has been at the year end.
Section A of this Annual Report and Accounts, including this statement and the made in laying the Chief Executives review, comprises the Groups Strategic Report.
We will be among the first to report under the new rules, which were only published in the latter part of the financial year, with much of the foundations for guidance still under development.
Therefore we expect these disclosures to develop as time goes on further, sustainable and welcome any comments.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012, which came in to force for this financial year.
The Groups disclosures in respect of Corporate Governance Section B2 have been revised in the light of the new Code, including expanded disclosures on the work of the Audit and Compliance Committee, and information on directors remuneration is provided in the new form required by the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills Section B3.
BOARD CHANGES Nick Keen, who has been Finance Director since 1995, has signalled his intention to retire and will be stepping down from the Board on 31 May 2014 following the half-yearly results.
Nick has been an outstanding member of the team over the years, ably directing a number of our corporate acquisitions, including Universal Credit, Colonial Finance and Britannic Money, many of Paragons early portfolio acquisitions and all of the Groups finance raising activities during the period since his appointment.
We are pleased to be able to report that Nicks services will be retained as chairman of the Idem division.
Richard Woodman, currently Director - Corporate Development, will take over as Finance Director on 31 May 2014.
Richard, who is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, joined the Group in 1989 and has held a number of senior strategic and financial roles, including having had line responsibility for internal audit and serving as Director of Business Analysis and Planning, prior to being appointed to the Board in February 2012.
Richard has worked closely with Nick over many years and the Board is con dent of a smooth transition of responsibilities.
STAFF The excellent progress we have made during the year would not have been achieved without the hard work and dedication of our staff and my fellow directors.
I thank them all for their efforts.
CONCLUSION The year ended 30 September 2013 has been a period of strong performance across the Groups activities.
The Group has earned record pro ts, expanded key business areas, increased funding for new business and made preparations for the launch of a new bank, subject to regulatory approvals, to recommence consumer lending within the Group.
The Board looks forward con dently to continuing the growth of the business in 2014.
ROBERT G DENCH Chairman 26 November 2013 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 7 A.
