Letter from our Chairman The at-retirement sector is an exciting and structurally high-growth market I joined Partnership just over a year ago, after recognising the challenges and opportunities that profound demographic changes in the UK are bringing to people at retirement.
Our ageing society receives daily coverage in the media as the impacts of a rapidly growing elderly population on public policy, services and intergenerational equity are better understood.
Partnerships compelling business model means that we are well placed to serve the needs of this population, and specically to meet the needs of the majority of people at retirement who qualify for our products as a result of health or lifestyle conditions.
Many people now recognise that they will live for longer in retirement.
However, few have made adequate pension provision.
Indeed, 60% of UK adults admitted that they are confused by pensions so do not make sufficient preparation for their 1 retirement.
This means that many people face an uncertain future in retirement with limited opportunities to generate much needed additional income.
This is where I believe Partnership can offer real value to its customers.
Core to Partnerships proposition is our focus on seeking to provide a better deal for those customers who qualify for our products compared with standard annuity providers.
On average a Partnership policyholder receives 18% extra retirement income for life compared to a standard annuity, and in some cases this can be considerably higher.
1 Money Advice Service April 2013 Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 4 2 The at-retirement sector is an exciting 10 years.
The level and duration of At listing we indicated that it would be and structurally high-growth market.
that decline throughout 2013 has been important for Partnership to manage its Partnerships unique proprietary dataset materially greater than I, or others in the capital base so as to support a dividend and intellectual property means it is industry, foresaw.
In addition, uncertainty payment to shareholders.
I am pleased to strongly placed to serve this market.
surrounding the Governments Social Care report that the Board is recommending a More than half of all retirees are estimated funding proposals resulted in weakened final dividend payment for 2013 of three to qualify for our products which provide appetite to purchase Care Annuities, pence per share, which we believe is a our customers with more retirement although this only represents a small sustainable level on which we can execute income based on accurate individual partof our business.
our progressive dividend policy and reects underwriting of health and lifestyle the Boards confidence in our continuing Despite this unprecedented situation, conditions.
Partnerships intellectual and future business.
Partnerships core annuity business has property, accumulated over a significant performed strongly, increasing market I would like to thank our employees, length of time and continuously share with sales in excess of 1.2bn customers and suppliers who have helped updated, also enables us to use our and growing operating profit by 17% us to deliver a robust result in 2013. capital effectively, protecting the profits to131m.
Although we have faced strong headwinds, and capital base of our Company for we are rising to the challenges of the shareholders and employees.
Partnership is now entering the next phase current environment and I believe that of its development.
Following our listing Changing regulation has had a significant Partnerships superior value for customers on the main market of the London Stock impact on the retirement annuity market and resilient business model means that Exchange, the Company has undertaken during the past year.
The Gender Directive, we are well positioned for future growth.
key actions to enable it to transition to which removes gender in the pricing of its new obligations and responsibilities financial products, prompted increased to investors.
Fundamental to this is a annuity sales at the end of 2012 and commitment to establishing strong early 2013, as male customers sought Chris Gibson-Smith investor communications and maintaining to purchase annuities before losing Chairman governance of the highest standards.
The Retail Distribution Review, which has changed the distribution The Board has been expanded with dynamics for financial products, also theappointment of experienced accelerated sales into 2012 and has professionals with extensive knowledge resulted in sustained market disruption as of the public markets that not only advisers adjust to the new requirements.
complement the knowledge and skills The consequence has been that the of existing directors, but provide an proportion of annuities purchased through independent challenge to the Companys the Open Market Option the right to shop operations.
Details of the governance around for the best annuity rate fell in structures, Board and Executive teams 2013.
This has resulted in the first decline areshown on pages 40to 44. in the non-standard annuity market in 2 ABI market statistics Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5
