About Your Company 1 Chairmans Statement Michael Moule providing a second half Sterling return of 18.2%, Results but technology shares lagged the broader equity This has been a frustrating year for our managers, as markets posting a return of 12.0%.
the technology sector has not performed well, with our net asset value increasing by 5.1% and the share price A full explanation of markets and performance can by 3.0% over our financial year.
Our benchmark, the be found in the managers report on pages 8 to 21.
Dow Jones World Technology Index, showed an increase of just 1.6% in local currency and 6.0% in EU Regulation Sterling.
By contrast, leading equity markets have been An unwelcome, but understandable by-product of the surprisingly buoyant, with the FTSE World Index large losses sustained by European banks and their providing a Sterling adjusted total return of 21.4%.
private clients on derivatives and certain hedge funds, has been a determined push by EU politicians for tighter Review of the Past Year regulation.
In an effort to prevent another Madoff Economic and political uncertainty subdued most scandal the EU has introduced a heavy handed edict equity markets for the first half of our financial year.
called the AIFMD which will apply to a wide range of The cost of supporting Greece and some other investment funds.
To comply with the new law, we will Eurozone members increased the fears of a Euro need to appoint an AIFM Alternative Investment Fund breakup, whilst in the USA some concerns were Manager and a Depositary by July 2014.
In abiding by evident over the run up to the presidential election the new law, investment trusts will be required to add and the outcome of the fiscal cliff.
In China, there was another, largely unnecessary, layer of oversight to an anxiety about the leadership change and the extent of already transparent and heavily regulated sector.
Despite the difficult macro Board and our managers are looking to minimise the backdrop, the FTSE World Index managed a small costs of this new unwarranted regulation.
Technology shares had to contend with an unexpectedly difficult earnings season Benchmark Adjustment in the USA which was primarily responsible for a Technology companies, particularly in the USA, have decline of 5.4% for our benchmark index.
historically concentrated on capital growth, with any excess cash flow being directed back into the business The final six months were assisted by a marked to fund acquisitions or to buy back stock.
Apple and improvement in sentiment towards equity markets other large technology companies have generated large and a reduced appetite for bonds.
In Europe, there cash positions and some more vocal shareholders was rising confidence that the ECB and politicians are requesting directors should look at introducing would provide substantial support to the weaker dividends, either special or regular.
Our managers feel Euro club members.
The news of an Obama second that, similar to other sectors, dividends will become a term reduced uncertainty and endorsed the view that larger part of total return.
The managers have hitherto QE and negative real interest rates would be been at a tax disadvantage with our current benchmark, sustained.
In Japan, determination by the new which is calculated on a gross total return basis government and the central bank to put an end to assuming dividends are untaxed.
From May 2013, our deflation prompted a sharp fall in the Yen, and an benchmark, the Dow Jones World Technology Index, will explosive rise in its equity market.
Against this be calculated with the relevant withholding tax deducted background, developed equity markets exceeded from dividends before the total return is calculated, most expectations, with the FTSE World Index providing a level playing field.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 06 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 of tasks to ensure the smooth running of the Company.
Directors It is a great pleasure to work with such a positive and Peter Dicks will be retiring from the Board at the responsible team, and my thanks to them for all their AGM in September.
He has served the company with hard work over the past year.
great distinction since the trusts inception in December 1996 and, on behalf of the Board and the Outlook management team, I would like to thank him for his We are now just over four years on from the extreme low lively and wise contribution over the past 17 years.
point in March 2009, in what has aptly been described as Peter also steps down as the Senior Independent a stealth bull market.
There is no euphoria, indeed I Director and as Chairman of the Remuneration cannot detect much enthusiasm for holding equities, Committee.
To replace him in these roles I am only the grudging acceptance that equities are the least delighted that Rupert Montagu, who has been a un-attractive option amongst asset classes, and do director since 2007, has agreed to accept these provide a modest and growing income and some two appointments.
inflation hedge characteristics, compared to the meagre returns on cash and shorter dated government bonds.
Every three years the trust engages an external Given the levels of Government and personal debt in consultant to evaluate the Chairman and the Board most developed economies, and hence a lack of growth, of Directors.
This process was very thorough and there is still a nagging fear that we are in a post also included contact with all our service providers financial crisis upswing in a protracted long-term and some of the largest shareholders.
I am pleases bear market, which explains why there is so much to report that we received a clean bill of health and cash sitting on the sidelines.
The review also included a separate external appraisal on the level of Board In terms of valuation, the past seven months has lifted remuneration which has not changed since 2011.
The all equity boats, and it is difficult for value investors to Board has accepted the recommendation that the fees find anything particularly cheap.
Conversely, apart for Chairman and Directors should rise by just over from some of the mega cap consumer staples, nothing 8% from May 2013. looks particularly expensive.
The good news is that investors are nervous about owning individual AGM technology shares, consequently the sector is modestly The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Monday rated compared to its historical average.
For our 2 September 2013 at the RAC Club, Pall Mall, London.
manager, the constant search for new growth ideas, The Board and the management team look forward to while trying to avoid the many losers in this new meeting as many shareholders as possible.
Full details paradigm is a massive challenge.
From my generalist of the meeting are contained in a separate document viewpoint, the World Wide Web is a free fountain that that will be enclosed with this annual report.
We should not be ashamed to own more of the beneficiaries of the stupendous gift Management Team bestowed on the world by Sir Tim Berners-Lee.
Ben Rogoff is responsible for managing the total portfolio, assisted by a team of specialist managers Michael Moule and analysts who feature on page 44.
Neil Taylor is our Chairman very experienced company secretary who seems to make light work of the extra regulation and the myriad Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 07
