"Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Introduction from the Chairman ""Corporate governance at Provident Financial is about more than just following a set of rules and guidelines."
"We are constantly seeking to develop our practices and frameworks to ensure that we remain at the forefront of best practice. """
Manjit Wolstenholme Chairman The key corporate functions and the matters arising from our external board Managing governance senior divisional management are evaluation in 2013 which confirmed required to confirm compliance with the boards desire to hold more board the corporate policies biannually.
meetings at operational sites around However, not only do they confirm the country.
This involves more Development and Financial implementation management compliance, we encourage them to members of the senior management of strategy suggest improvements to ensure that team in board presentations in order our divisions and corporate office are to improve the boards understanding always operating at the highest level.
of key strategic and operational Regulatory Risk issues.
As thenew Chairman, I affairs control Our approach to governance is very have committed to continuing the much based on the concept that programme of senior management good corporate governance enhances engagement in 2014. longer-term shareholder value and this Corporate Corporate affairs governance includes taking action where necessary The use of an iPad and the Boardpad2 to ensure that what we do fully reflects application produced by the and complies with the principles Institute of Chartered Secretaries and provisions of the UK Corporate and Administrators has significantly Governance Code the Code.
enhanced the workings of the Following John van Kuffeler's board and its committees and has The Code principles establish good retirement from the board on 1 January been welcomed by the board as governance practice and inthe 2014 and my appointment as Chairman improving the quality and efficiency of next few pages, I will explain how from that date, I am delighted to distribution of the meeting papers, not they have been applied by the present the key highlights arising to mention the environmental impact board.
The Chairman sets the board from the board's work on corporate of not producing paper board packs.
agenda with the Company Secretary governance in 2013.
We will continue to explore other having received input from the Chief technological developments which As you are aware from our previous Executive to ensure that the board has enhance the operation of the board.
reports, corporate governance at visibility and input into key decisions at Provident Financial is about more an early stage.
A wide range of topics Recent developments than just following a set of rules was reviewed by the board during the We announced the retirement of John and guidelines.
Details are set out in the board van Kuffeler as Chairman at our Annual calendar on page 81.
General Meeting AGM in May 2013 We have established a set of good with effect from 1 January 2014 and corporate governance principles which It is important that the non-executive in the interim period, I have worked are fully embedded in our corporate directors are fully informed about with him to determine the future policies manual and they reflect decisions and therefore every composition and running of the board.
the best practice we expect from opportunity is taken by the nonIn particular, I assumed the lead role in our employees.
executive directors, particularly when the recruitment of our two new nonmeetings are held at operational sites, We are constantly seeking to develop executive directors, Malcolm Le May to meet with the senior management our practices and framework to ensure and Alison Halsey, both of whom have teams and to spend some time that we remain at the forefront of relevant and recent financial services understanding the workings of the best practice.
experience in regulated sectors, operations.
Indeed, this was one of the 73 Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Introduction from the Chairman continued which I believe not only strengthens management framework in light of this the board and is consistent with our change to increase the committee and Highlights diversity policy but places us in a board's focus on customer outcomes much better position to deal with and conduct risk.
The board has a Recruitment of two the challenges created by the new clear view of the steps it needs to take new independent nonregulatory regime which will apply to to support the development of the executive directors the group from 1 April 2014.
From that business and is well placed to provide date the group will be regulated by the the leadership necessary to address Appointment of a new Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the challenges ahead in the new having previously been regulated by regulatory environment.
independent Chairman the Office of Fair Trading OFT and Board composition the Financial Services Authority FSA.
Restructuring the The recruitment process is reported Following the departure of Chris composition of in more detail in the report of the Gillespie, we considered the mix the board and its nomination committee.
of executive and non-executive committees to reflect directors on the board.
After careful I was also primarily responsible for the the new regulatory consideration by the nomination appointment of Independent Board committee, a recommendation environment Evaluation to carry out our annual was made to the board that board evaluation.
This enabled me membership be restricted to myself, Approval of the to receive feedback from my board as independent Chairman, together revised CCD strategy colleagues on how they wanted the with two executive directors and four board meetings to be run under my independent non-executive directors.
Recalibration of the chairmanship and understand their This recommendation was accepted.
thoughts on the future composition of risk management the board.
In particular, Independent In addition to significant strengths in framework in light Board Evaluation were asked to the development and implementation of regulatory changes carefully consider and report on of strategy, the board collectively any issues that were concerning has extensive experience in financial Review of the guidance: board colleagues, including any management, risk control, corporate Effective Internal Audit perceived issues on the dynamics of governance, regulatory matters and the new board, bearing in mind its in the Financial Services corporate affairs issues.
Sector issued by the Following the recent recruitment Following the resignation of Chris Chartered Institute of of two new independent nonGillespie in September 2013, the board executive directors, the board has also Internal Auditors in July took the opportunity to review the strengthened its experience in conduct 2013 and completion of strategy for the Consumer Credit risk and customer outcomes which a gapanalysis in respect Division CCD.
The board oversaw will be key requirements in the new the appointment of a new managing of the policies and regulatory environment.
director, the restructure of the CCD practices of the group Following my appointment as board and at an additional board internal audit function Chairman on 1 January 2014, I meeting in November 2013, approved relinquished the chairmanship of the revised strategy for the Consumer Annual independent the remuneration committee and Credit Division which repositions the also my role as Senior Independent external board business as a broader lending business Director.
Malcolm Le May took over and repositions the core home credit evaluation carried out as Chairman of the remuneration and introduces a new online instalment committee and was appointed Senior product known as Satsuma.
Independent Director with effect from 1 January 2014.
Our responsibilities The role and responsibilities of the From October 2013 we have invited board, which are set out later in this the managing directors of each of report, have changed to reflect the the divisions to attend part of each imminent change in the regulatory board meeting to present a strategic environment.
The risk advisory and operational report on their committee has recalibrated the risk division.
This is consistent with and 74 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued addresses some of the feedback Independent Board Evaluation were Policy and the Annual Report on received following the 2012 board selected to carry out this process Remuneration, all of which will be evaluation process.
following a review of the proposals subject to a shareholder vote at the submitted by two shortlisted providers.
AGM in May 2014, are set out in the Board membership Independent Board Evaluation have no directors remuneration report, on other connection with and provide no pages 108 to 130.
The mix of individuals on the board other services to the company.
largely determines the quality of Risk and internal audit the board as a whole.
Through the As Chairman, I intend to meet with the nomination committee, we pay a great We put a significant emphasis on independent non-executive directors deal of attention to the composition monitoring the level of risk through during 2014 to review the issues raised of the board and succession planning.
the work of our audit committee and during the board evaluation process.
When considering the composition of risk advisory committee.
The outputs As the Senior Independent Director the board, we look for the right mix of of this process are set out in greater during the period, I also met with John knowledge, experience and key skills, detail on pages 85 to 91.
We remain van Kuffeler in December 2013 to whilst always giving due consideration committed to building upon and review any issues raised concerning to diversity.
indeed improving our understanding his performance.
of the key risks facing the group and It is important that the right balance refining our appetite and tolerance Diversity is achieved as this will enhance the of such risks.
During the year we workings of the board and this was The board supports diversity in its specifically reviewed the guidance: a key principle underpinning the broadest sense and considers it an Effective Internal Audit in the recruitment process we initiated for essential driver of board effectiveness.
Financial Services Sector issued by Malcolm Le May and Alison Halsey, The board recognises the benefits the Chartered Institute of Internal with the assistance of an external to the company of diversity in its Auditors in July 2013 and carried out advisor.
I believe the new board workforce and in the composition a gap analysis of the policies and composition has the right mix of ofthe board itself.
practices of the group internal audit executive and non-executive directors function.
As a result we: a removed The board aims to have an optimum and achieves the appropriate degree the responsibility for risk from the balance of skills, backgrounds and of challenge on both operational and Head of Audit and created a new relevant sector experience in order strategic issues.
position of Head of Risk: b changed to create a diversity of perspective the reporting line for the Head of in the boardroom.
We will therefore Board effectiveness Audit: and c despite a contrary pursue a policy of appointing the Following on from the external review recommendation in the guidance, best people for relevant roles whilst in 2010 and in accordance with retained the independence of the recognising the benefits of greater the requirements of the Code, we Vanquis Bank internal audit team, diversity when considering any commissioned Independent Board on the basis that Vanquis Bank was particular appointment.
Evaluation in September 2013 to: a regulated entity.
We did, however, a undertake a thorough evaluation Whilst there is more than a 20% consider it appropriate that the group of the effectiveness of the board, representation of women in internal audit function retain oversight its committees and key attendees: management positions, the board of the risks and controls across the b help determine the boards nevertheless recognises the benefits group and accordingly it will continue requirements of the new Chairman: of increasing the representation of to work in close cooperation with the and c identify any concerns over female employees at the most senior Vanquis Bank internal audit team.
the new composition of the board level in the company.
The board now following the resignation of one of comprises 28.6% women and although Compliance the executive directors.
The process it has therefore exceeded its target The group complied with the involved both observation at a meeting of 25% by 2015 over a year early, it provisions of the Code throughout of the board, the audit committee, remains committed to achieving a 2013.
A copy of the Code can be found the remuneration committee and the target of 25% women within the wider at www.
uk risk advisory committee and one-tosenior management group by 2015. one interviews.
Remuneration The actions identified from the Manjit Wolstenholme Details of the work of the remuneration evaluation will be implemented Chairman committee together with the Annual through 2014.
Further details can Statement from the remuneration be found on page 82. committee chairman, the Remuneration 75
