04 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview Chairmans statement Lasting value for customers and growing returns for shareholders t gives me great pleasure to These objectives were achieved in Meeting these objectives introduce Prudentials 2013 a challenging global context, marked by is a significant milestone Annual Report.
The Group volatile market conditions, an uncertain and a testament to our Ihas delivered an excellent economic environment, heightened clear and well-understood performance, providing value to regulation and historically low interest strategy and to the efforts our customers and strong returns rates.
Low interest rates are not only a of our management team.
problem for us as an insurer, but also for This performance is underpinned by many of our customers, particularly in Paul Manduca a clear focus on our purpose as a Group.
the UK, where they have had a significant Chairman Our businesses stand or fall by the service and negative impact on returns for savers.
that we provide to our customers and the There are now signs that the worlds wider contribution that we make to the economy is recovering, but the picture communities and societies of which we is still not fully clear and we shall proceed, are a part.
It is this foundation that allows as ever, with care.
us to continue our track record of more At our investor conference in London than 165 years of creating value for our in December 2013, our executive team customers, our shareholders and, set themselves new objectives to reach ultimately, the countries in which we by 2017.
Like their predecessors, these are operate.
Moreover, this adherence to our demanding objectives, but I am confident founding principles of integrity, security that, given our recent performance and and prudence, and our investment in the strength of our management team, we building quality teams everywhere we are will achieve them.
active, have helped us deliver one of the We are a growing business and we live in a strongest performances in the FTSE over regulatory environment that has put financial recent years.
services firms under increasing scrutiny in the By offering security to individuals and wake of the financial crisis.
We use the cash families, our products provide we generate both to fund our growth and opportunities for customers to build better to build the strength of our balance sheet, futures for themselves and their children.
ensuring that we retain prudent capital By pooling savings and investing capital levels on the various capital metrics that in areas such as infrastructure, we help to our regulators monitor.
We also work hard stimulate the economic activity that drives to increase the return to our shareholders growth and creates more savings and thus prudently in the form of dividends.
more investment, helping to propel a The Board applies strict affordability virtuous circle of growth and prosperity.
tests against a broad range of criteria Our commercial success is predicated on before making its dividend our ability to make a positive social and recommendation.
It is the results of these economic contribution.
tests, combined with the Groups It is this commitment to creating lasting exceptionally strong performance in the value for customers that enables us to past five years, that has enabled the Board continue to deliver strong returns to our to take the unusual decision to recommend shareholders.
I am delighted to report that the rebase of the dividend in consecutive all of our businesses have contributed to years, 2012 and 2013.
The Board has our excellent performance in 2013, with proposed a final dividend of 23.84 pence our Asia operations driving profitable per share, which brings the total dividend growth, while our focused businesses in for the year to 33.57 pence per share, the US and the UK continue to make good 4.38 pence or 15 per cent higher than the contributions.
The year marked an important step for Since I became Chairman, I have been the Group.
In 2010 we set ourselves six determined to ensure that we have a Board demanding objectives on growth and cash that provides a channel for discussion with generation to reach by the end of 2013. shareholders, maintains a good relationship Meeting these objectives is a significant with regulators and sets the tone for milestone and a testament to our clear and everything the business does.
A financial well-understood strategy and to the efforts services board needs to be strong in of our management team, led by Group relevant expertise, not only to support Chief Executive Tidjane Thiam.
the management team, but also to provide Group overview Chairmans statement Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 05 appropriate challenge.
We took a number I am particularly proud of the fact that of steps in 2013 to strengthen the Board so many of our people are taking part in and better position it to contribute to our corporate responsibility programmes.
Last year 8,155 colleagues gave their time full-year dividend Philip Remnant CBE became Senior and expertise to help improve the lives of Independent Director on 1 January, people around the world.
This commitment replacing myself in that role.
Anthony makes a real and long-term difference to Nightingale CMG joined the Board on others and is a clear example of the 15% 1 June as a non-executive director and important role we play in our communities.
increase on 2012 member of the Remuneration Committee, Many of our employees take part in replacing Keki Dadiseth, who retired from the Chairmans Challenge, our flagship the Board on 1 May after eight years of volunteering programme, which valuable service.
I would like to thank Keki encourages colleagues to participate in for his hard work and trusted advice during projects initiated by our global charity his time on the Board and for the insights partners.
Every year the projects he brought us on a very important region supported by the Chairmans Challenge for our company, Asia.
increase in scope and quality and the 2013 On 10 June, Alice Schroeder joined as programme has been a great success an independent non-executive director from Age UKs Call in time telephone and member of the Audit Committee.
well-being service, which helps older Formerly a managing director and a senior people build confidence and remain in their adviser at Morgan Stanley, Alice is highly homes for longer, to Plan Internationals respected by the international investment programme to develop financial and life community and brings considerable insight skills for school children in ethnic into all aspects of the global insurance communities in Chiangmai, Thailand.
It is a record of which I think we can be We also gained a new executive Board justifiably proud.
However, it is not one member in September when Jackie Hunt upon which we can rest.
I, together with joined as Chief Executive of Prudential UK others, will continue to work with our and Europe.
She came to us from Standard outstanding corporate responsibility teams Life plc, where she was Chief Financial to ensure people think of Prudential when Officer, bringing with her a proven record they look for best practice in this area.
of delivery in the highly competitive UK I would like to thank all our employees insurance market.
for their contribution to another successful I am confident that these additions will year for Prudential.
With their ensure that we have a Board that is well commitment, our strong management and placed to seize the opportunities presented our clear strategy, I am confident that we by returning global growth.
can continue to provide our customers with Jackie Hunt succeeded Rob Devey.
I value and our shareholders with growing would like to thank Rob for the contribution returns into the future, and further he has made to the positive progress strengthen the communities we serve.
of Prudential UK and Europe over the past four years.
On 31 August, Michael Garrett retired from the Board after almost nine years as an independent director.
I would like to thank him for his long period of Paul Manduca service to the Group, during which his international business experience was Chairman of considerable value.
Besides the significant benefits provided by our business activities, we undertake corporate responsibility programmes in partnership with charitable For more information on Prudentials organisations in our communities, strategy and operating principles providing long-term funding and Our strategy page 16 deploying the expertise of our people.
