Introduction Chairmans statement We appointed Philip Howell as deputy chief executive in March 2013 and on 2 December 2013 we announced that he had been appointed to the board and would become chief executive on 1 March 2014.
Governance, the board and senior management Overview of 2013 The last few years have seen prolific growth in corporate governance codes, principles and guidelines.
Much of this is 2013 was a positive year for investment markets generally, sensible but no amount of process will remedy the situation if benefiting both Rathbones and our clients.
This positive a firms culture, starting at the top, is not healthy.
Our annual backdrop, combined with better levels of new business, report has been reshaped and supplemented to incorporate meant that our total funds under management grew by the new requirements in what we hope is a digestible way.
All 22.2% over the year to 22.0 billion.
It is particularly committee chairmen, for example, now provide a personal pleasing that the growth in our business was broad-based, introduction to the work of their committee.
with our relationship approach continuing to be well received During the year, apart from routine duties, the board by private clients, professional intermediaries, trustees, spent considerable time discussing risk, strategy, potential charities and institutions.
Rathbones welcomed some 1,500 acquisitions, succession planning and litigation matters.
clients in 2013 either directly, or through financial In my 2012 report I outlined how we had reduced the intermediaries, or as clients of seasoned investment managers size of the board and I think it worked better in 2013 as a who have recently joined us.
Our unit trust business also more cohesive and focused unit.
As part of the succession performed well, growing its funds under management from planning I described last year we instigated a search for a 1.3 billion to 1.8 billion through both strong inflows and non-executive director with accounting experience.
rigorous process we were delighted to appoint James Dean as As part of our ongoing investment in the business in a new non-executive director on 1 November 2013.
James 2013, we broadened our geographical spread by opening two was a senior partner of Ernst & Young.
It remains our new offices.
In addition we continued to attract good people, aspiration to achieve greater gender balance by appointing a enhanced our investment process and improved both our second female non-executive director with appropriate skills front and back office systems, which continue to provide the by 2015. high quality support required by our clients and staff.
We appointed Philip Howell as deputy chief executive in March 2013 and on 2 December 2013 we announced that he had been appointed to the board and would become chief executive on 1 March 2014 in succession to Andy Pomfret, who is retiring.
Andy has been chief executive of Rathbones for nine years and was finance director for five years before that.
Rathbones has flourished under his strong leadership and it is a tribute to Andy that he not only brought in Philip as a potential successor but has also ensured a smooth hand-over of responsibilities.
I have enjoyed working with Andy immensely and we all wish him well in his future plural career.
2 2 Rathbone Brothers Plc Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Report and accounts 2013 Introduction Chairmans statement Strategy Our investment management and unit trust businesses are both regulated by the FCA, but, as Rathbone Investment Set out on pages 6 to 16 is our strategic report, which Management is a bank, we are also regulated by the PRA.
describes our business model and strategic objectives and In addition, European legislation is increasingly impacting assesses how we have run the business.
Rathbones has grown our industry.
We believe that it is important that short its investment management business very successfully over term political imperatives do not mean that the pendulum the years, both organically and by acquisition, and as a larger swings too far in our area of financial services and that business we will be looking over the next year to develop our unintended consequences do not work against the best strategic processes and formalise our risk and capital interests of good investment managers and their clients.
planning disciplines to a greater degree.
This will be a top priority for our new chief executive and I look forward to working with him and the rest of the board on this.
Remuneration The report from the chairman of the remuneration committee is set out on pages 54 to 65.
It includes our We are well placed to take remuneration policy, which shareholders are asked to advantage of future growth approve at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Work continues on implementing a firm wide remuneration opportunities in our sector and structure that reinforces a performance-driven culture continue to look to the future from the top to the bottom of the group.
Shareholders Risk and litigation We endeavour to maintain an effective and regular dialogue The report from the chairman of the group risk committee with our major shareholders.
The views of all our is set out on page 53.
Whilst we have made considerable shareholders and what we believe is in their best interests progress in 2013, risk management remains an area we shape all aspects of our decision-making.
At the AGM, in line want to develop further.
We plan to establish an independent with best practice, we give shareholders the opportunity to risk management structure to supplement our historic and vote on the appointment or reappointment of each proven practice of ensuring that our investment teams take board member.
Biographies of each director are set out on responsibility for the risks in their areas of business.
We pages 44 to 46. will continue to promote a culture of risk awareness and I hope you find this years annual report provides a responsibility throughout the firm.
The biggest risks for clear account of how we run the business, what we have Rathbones continue to arise from our ambition to grow achieved and what we aim to achieve in the coming years.
our business and from regulatory intervention in our sector.
We were successful on all substantial coverage issues in the insurance case referred to in note 32 to the Outlook consolidated financial statements, but this was negated by the courts finding that insurers had rights of subrogation We are well placed to take advantage of future growth against Rathbones.
Both sides have lodged an appeal.
The opportunities in our sector and continue to look to the future board believes that the underlying Jersey claim will be with optimism.
I very much look forward to working with unsuccessful and that effective insurance cover will be our new chief executive, Philip Howell, and the board in the confirmed on appeal.
Nevertheless litigation is not without coming years to develop and grow the business further.
risk and therefore the possibility exists that the groups insurance will not be effective or proves insufficient.
Mark Nicholls Chairman Regulation 19 February 2014 The regulatory impact on the private client investment management industry increased during the year.
The regulatory system changed significantly as the Financial Services Authority was replaced by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
We are therefore subject to two regulatory regimes.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Report and accounts 2013 33
