Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 61 Corporate governance statement In May 2013 we announced that Andy Parker would additionally Chairmans report take on the role of Deputy Chief Executive to directly support I am pleased to present to you this report on the work of the Paul Pindar as we continued to grow.
In November we Capita Board during 2013.
This section of the report pages 61 announced that Paul Pindar would be retiring on 28 February to 66 and the section headed Other Statutory and Regulatory 2014 and Andy Parker would be promoted to Chief Executive Information pages 73 to 77 together form the Directors report.
We also announced the promotion of Dawn I continue to be impressed by the Boards commitment to the Marriott-Sims to Joint Chief Operating Officer effective from highest standard of corporate governance and, most importantly, 1 January 2014.
Martina King is also retiring from the Board after how this works within the structure of the whole organisation 10 years as a Non-Executive Director from the AGM 2014.
I wish without being overly cumbersome.
Andy and Dawn every success in their new roles.
I believe that we have a talented and strong team in place on the Group Board It is vital that a Board balances its time between strategy and across our divisional management team to support our and oversight, as this responsibility is given to them by the continued growth as a Group.
shareholders, but consideration of all its stakeholders is also important.
I believe that this balance is managed well within Approximate allocation of agenda time in 2013 Capita at Board, divisional and business unit level.
During the year the Boards discussions have been wide-ranging, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Paul Pindar for his including: strategy, acquisitions, finance, corporate reporting, enormous contribution to Capita over the past 27 years.
He has operational performance and risk and internal audit.
The time been instrumental in smoothly guiding the Company through allocated to these areas of the Board is shown in the diagram its exceptional growth and performance, delivering an unbroken below.
track record of year-on-year earnings growth.
He has inspired the best in his team with his indomitable leadership and unwavering sense of fun and good humour.
Our robust succession planning Corporate reporting 5% Strategy 15% has ensured that there is a strong team in place to continue delivering success.
Bids 15% On behalf of the Board we wish him every success for the future.
Risk 15% Results for 2013 Acquisitions 2013 was an excellent year for Capita, with underlying revenue and disposals 20% on an ongoing basis up by 15%, underlying operating profit up by Finance 10% 11% and underlying earnings per share up 14%.
During the year, Operations 20% we secured Capitas largest ever contract by annual value with Telefnica UK O2 valued at 1.2bn over 10 years.
The majority of our divisions traded well in 2013, with particularly good performance across our Customer Management & International, Strategy Workplace Services and Professional Services divisions.
Our A specific session to review the Groups strategy in detail Insurance & Benefits division continues to bear higher costs than is held each year.
Strategy items are also discussed at each anticipated of IT legacy systems.
The diverse nature of the business means that Additionally, as announced in November 2013, we completed we must continue to be adaptable to the opportunities and the disposal of some of our Insurance Distribution operations challenges that face us, our clients and our stakeholders.
Risk is and closed our SIP Self Invested Pensions administration considered side-by-side with strategy and is included in our business based in Salisbury.
This followed a detailed review which operational reporting.
concluded that the route to recovery for these businesses would take a long time and we therefore acted swiftly to resolve this.
Board members reporting In 2013, these operations generated 45m of Group revenue All Executive Directors prepare and present a report at each and made a combined operating loss of 14.4m.
These include the key issues including risk and non-trading cash cost, net of tax, from the sale and closure is opportunity, operational and financial performance and bid 38.5m.
The loss on disposal was 82.1m including 62.4m from and acquisition activity.
These reports are then complemented impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.
with verbal updates at the meeting.
This allows the Directors to focus on specific issues and also for the other Directors to debate Board activities in 2013 and challenge as required.
See management and governance The Group has undertaken a large number of acquisitions structure on page 35. and has had an excellent year of securing new and renewed major contracts.
The Board and committee meetings are structured, and agendas drawn up accordingly, to cover the wide range of matters that are brought to our attention and the meetings are aligned with the financial calendar of the Company.
This ensures that appropriate focus can be given to the items brought to our attention.
62 | Capita plc Corporate governance statement Financial and corporate reporting Consideration of the Board balance is kept under regular review The Board considers the Groups statutory reports and the by the Chief Executive and myself.
broader aspects of corporate reporting at each scheduled An external evaluation was undertaken in 2012 by meeting.
Regular updates are received on the financial results Genius Methods.
from Gordon Hurst, Andy Parker and Paul Pindar, which also include the financial outlook for the Group.
Risk & Compliance and Internal Audit On pages 35 to 39 in the strategic report we have described fully Major bids and acquisitions the roles of Risk & Compliance and Internal Audit together with Maggi Bell, Business Development Director, presents a report at the risks and internal controls for the Group.
each Board meeting which covers the current major bid strategy, constituents of the bid pipeline bids over 25m in value where In order that the Board can ensure that the strategic direction we are shortlisted to four or fewer and prospects which are and growth of the Group can continue successfully and with sitting just outside of the bid pipeline.
As many of these potential the appropriate risk oversight, meetings are held individually contracts are of significant size and duration, these opportunities between the Group Risk & Compliance Director and the Group can make a significant impact on the shape and resource Internal Audit Director with the Chairman of the Audit and requirements of the Group as it grows.
Risk Committee throughout the year as well as the normal scheduled meetings.
Risks are identified in a number of ways The CEO reports on the acquisition strategy and current and are prioritised and delegated in accordance with the risk acquisition activity in addition to his Chief Executive report.
Divisional senior management Both the Group Risk & Compliance Director and the Group As explained in 2012, a review was undertaken of the divisional Internal Audit Director report to the Group Finance Director and senior management to ensure that the right management independently to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Both report is in place to meet with the ongoing changing resourcing on the internal audit programme and risk and compliance requirements of the Group.
These changes are now complete management activities across the Group.
They have access to and we believe that although we will continue to keep this under all members of the Board and hold regular meetings with the review, we have strong divisional management to support the Executive Directors and meet with the Audit and Risk Committee Board for the business opportunities ahead.
Chairman and myself at least quarterly.
Board evaluation in 2013 Directors During October 2013, the Board evaluation process was The Directors of the Company currently in office are listed on carried out by means of a questionnaire requiring written pages 59 and 60. responses from Directors.
To ensure independence and As I explained earlier in my report to you, Paul Pindar is retiring objectivity, the questionnaire was conceived, administered at the end of February 2014 and we were pleased to announce and reviewed on a confidential basis by the Deputy Company in November 2013 Andy Parkers promotion to Chief Executive Secretary.
The resultant report, analysing responses and effective from 1 March 2014.
We were also delighted to drawing anonymous conclusions, was sent to each Director for announce the promotion of Dawn Marriott-Sims to the Board as consideration.
The Chairman also met with each Board member Joint Chief Operating Officer from 1 January 2014. individually to discuss the performance of the Board and also Following 10 years as a Non-Executive Director, Martina King has discussed and agreed the form of the Board evaluation with decided to retire from the Board in May 2014.
The Board thanks Gillian Sheldon, Senior Independent Director.
her for her strong contribution to the Board and as Chair of the The report recognised the robustness of the governance process Remuneration Committee and wishes her all future success.
within the Board, and the strength of the dynamics that exist All the Board with the exception of Paul Pindar and Martina between strategic challenge and strategic focus amongst King will stand for re-election Dawn Marriott-Sims for election Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
All of the Board have received a formal The results were once again very positive and the final report was performance evaluation and each Director continues to be presented, without amendment, to the Board in November 2013. effective and to demonstrate their commitment to the role.
A very small number of minor follow-up matters were identified The following pages in this section consist of our corporate and are being addressed.
I hope that you will find As part of our Board evaluation process, a series of meetings these and the entire annual report and accounts informative and were held with the Non-Executives and the Senior Independent the Board will be happy to receive any feedback you may have.
Director and also all members of the Board to discuss my own performance.
The views of the Executive Directors were taken into consideration by the Non-Executives as part of the Martin Bolland evaluation.
I was not present at these meetings.
A meeting of the Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executives without the Executive Directors was also held.
26 February 2014 I met with all members of the Board individually and regularly during the year to receive feedback and discuss current and long term opportunities.
