| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Chairmans Statement ur shareholders expect a clear and Oconsistent approach.
At the heart of this approach, rests its commitment to the preservation of shareholders capital, which remains our highest priority.
We did not forsake our focus on long-term growth and for this our shareholders have Lord Rothschild, OM GBE rewarded us with their loyalty.
these relationships typically come with enhanced s market conditions have become more economics, as well as enriching our market insights.
Avolatile, I am increasingly satisfied with the progress which your Company made during the year We have been active in managing our currency under review.
The net asset value per share NAV exposure, initially capitalising on Sterlings weakness increased from 1,191 pence to 1,384 pence, by bringing our exposure to minimal levels, only to representing a total return of 18.6%.
Total net assets increase these levels materially when we saw early increased by 343 million before dividends and buysigns of a UK revival.
We concentrated the vast backs of 44 million to 2,146 million, a new all-time majority of our non-Sterling exposure into the US high.
Dollar, and therefore avoided the fallout that tapering Our shareholders expect a clear and consistent induced on many of the emerging market currencies.
At the heart of this approach, rests its Our direct private investment portfolio and the commitment to the preservation of shareholders externally managed private funds gave modest capital, which remains our highest priority taking financial returns during the year.
As I have drawn precedence over tactical manoeuvres based on shortattention to in the past, such investments should be term returns.
Our 2013 performance combined assessed over a long time frame.
A good example of appropriate levels of caution with a significant this is Paypoint, where we sold our remaining shares participation in stock market increases.
We did not for a 30% return during 2013.
However the full story forsake our focus on long-term growth and for this dates back to our initial 3 million investment in 1999 our shareholders have rewarded us with their loyalty.
into what was then a private and problematic In 2013 we identified a number of key themes which company.
The company obtained a stock market helped to produce a strong performance in our listing in 2004 and, over its full life, has produced a quoted equity book.
Our continued focus on the US return of 15 times our investment with an IRR of and increased allocation to Japan were rewarded as almost 29% per annum.
these were the two strongest of the major stock markets in 2013.
Investment in technology also We have made two sizeable private investments in proved to be a fertile area through direct stock the past year.
The first was in Metron, a promising selections as well as specialist money managers.
Norwegian oil and gas services business.
The second was our widely reported investment in Williams and External funds performed strongly as we consolidated Glyns, the new challenger bank created from the our relationships into a reduced number of money Royal Bank of Scotland.
Last year I drew managers, whose skills we believe will deliver strong shareholders attention to the potential of the global performance in the years ahead.
For many years now, relationships which your Company has built.
The RIT has sought to identify and support emerging talent.
investment in Williams and Glyns emerged directly We have seeded four different managers in the past from one of these relationships, as the transaction 18 months, specialising in technology, financials, was led by Corsair Capital, where we are investors in distressed debt and most recently Japanese equities.
addition to being good performers in their own right, The main detractor from our performance during the otal net assets increased by 343 million year was our allocation to gold and gold miners, T before dividends and buy-backs of where the decline in the commodity price resulted in a negative return for our real asset investments.
In 44 million to 2,146 million, a new the current year there has been an improvement in all-time high.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 3 Chairmans Statement Dividend As the significant amount of capital invested in low or We are intending to pay a dividend of 29.4 pence per zero yielding assets looks for alternative homes, the share in 2014, in two equal payments in April and demand for equities has not surprisingly been strong, October.
This represents a 5.0% increase over 2013, stimulated by central banks who remain concerned and we expect to maintain or increase this level in the and cautious about removing the punchbowl.
years ahead, as long as this does not come into conflict with your Companys primary objective of capital Inevitably higher valuations imply lower margins of preservation and growth.
safety and consequently the markets vulnerability to shocks is greater.
With the world recovery still fragile Board and Management and reliant to a large extent on policy support, it is not We continue to strengthen your Board and I am hard to envisage markets having to deal with such grateful to Directors for the considerable time which shocks in the coming year and indeed they were felt they devote to the governance of the Company.
Early in 2014 investors have become increasingly concerned on a number of fronts: these My daughter Hannah joined the Board in August.
Her include signs of a slow-down in the Chinese appointment serves to reinforce my familys ties to economy, emerging market turmoil in response to the your Company.
In October the Board was further timing of the Federal Reserves tapering, doubts as to strengthened by the appointment of Mike Wilson, a whether Abenomics in Japan will succeed, joint-founder together with myself of St Jamess disappointing recent US economic data and the risk of Place plc where he served with distinction and deflation and economic stagnation in Europe.
Lastly it success as their CEO.
is difficult to forecast with conviction the As we have recently announced, Mike Power has consequences of the massive money printing now joined the Board as a non-executive Director.
He experiment of the past few years.
is a Professor of Accounting at the London School of The new year has already displayed further volatility.
Economics and Political Science, an honorary fellow Our latest reported NAV at the end of January was of the Institute of Risk Management and was until 1,371 pence.
This represents a decline of 0.9% recently on the board of St Jamess Place plc.
against broader market falls of 3% to 4%, reflecting our somewhat cautious approach.
In February We are delighted to have the benefit of these three however, markets have improved.
non-executive Directors and on shareholders behalf I would like to extend a warm welcome.
Against this backdrop we cannot rely on the upward trajectory of markets to deliver performance.
We We said farewell to James Leigh-Pemberton during therefore put even more emphasis on high the year following his appointment to run UK Financial conviction stock-picking.
We take advantage of Investments.
James joined the Board in 2004 and we volatility to create attractive entry levels on our were privileged to have the benefit of his experience favoured themes, relying on research and our and sage advice throughout this time.
On behalf of network to identify investment opportunities.
We are shareholders, the Board and our entire Company, I continuing to manage our currency exposure as a would like to thank him for his significant contribution.
The executive management of your Company is With interest rates held artificially low, we have also entrusted to J Rothschild Capital Management expanded our credit and absolute return strategies to JRCM.
We now have a young and well settled team ensure we are both enhancing and diversifying our to manage your Companys investments in the years sources of returns.
This initiative is of particular ahead.
My colleague Francesco Goedhuis has recently interest at a time when we negotiated 400 million of been appointed as Chairman of the Executive new borrowing facilities at favourable rates, which we Committee.
Ron Tabbouche, previously an executive of intend to deploy into such strategies.
We consider the Global Asset Management GAM, the company which risk-adjusted returns to be favourable in enabling us to I co-founded in 1983, is our Investment Director.
earn a reasonable margin of profit, both in supporting Finance is managed by Andrew Jones our CFO and our portfolio returns and helping to offset our costs.
Operations by Jonathan Kestenbaum our COO.
4 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Chairmans Statement This strong and motivated team, with support from our experienced non-executive Directors, permanent capital and global relationships, should stand shareholders in good stead.
Rothschild 5 March 2014 e are intending to pay a dividend of W29.4 pence per share in 2014, this represents a 5.0% increase over 2013.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 5
