CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A FOCUS ON LONG-TERM CAPITAL GROWTH On 29 October, RELs ordinary shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities under the ticker 1 RSE.
Over 76 million shares were issued at an issue 1 price of 10 per ordinary share, raising 760.3 million $1.23 billion by way of a successful global placing, offer for subscription for investors in the UK and private placing to selected cornerstone investors.
REL was the largest energy sector IPO on the LSE since April 2010.
These facts were a product of the strong demand we saw from institutional investors.
REL is now a member of the FTSE 250 index.
Background REL was launched by Riverstone, an energy The Board is comprised of nine Directors, and power-focused private investment firm five of whom are independent of Riverstone.
with approximately $26 billion of equity capital I am delighted to chair the Board, and am raised across seven investment funds and related joined by a group of experienced individuals co-investment entities.
With offices in New York, from the energy world.
The Board members 2 London and Houston, the firm has committed are Peter Barker, Lord John Browne, Patrick 2 2 3 over $25 billion to more than 100 investments Firth, James Hackett, Richard Hayden, in North America, Latin America, Europe, Africa Pierre F. Lapeyre, David M. Leuschen and 2 and Asia.
Riverstone has an outstanding track Dr Tidu Maini.
record of building businesses with exceptional management teams and of delivering consistently strong returns and significant outperformance against both crude oil and natural gas benchmarks.
1 Includes KFIs second tranche of 5 million shares at 50 million see Note 12.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
1 Over 76 million shares were issued at an issue price of 10 per ordinary share, 1 raising 760.3 million On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Investment Approach all our shareholders for their commitment to REL.
The successful listing of the Company on REL provides an opportunity for investors to gain the London Stock Exchange and, subsequently, exposure to the global energy sector, but with its first investments alongside Fund V, marks the potentially better risk-adjusted returns than are commencement of an exciting journey.
We firmly currently available through alternative investment believe that Riverstones long-standing investment opportunities.
Our intention is to invest globally record provides a unique proposition for Londonacross the energy sector, with a particular focus based investors in the global energy sector.
on the exploration and production and midstream segments.
Initially, REL will invest alongside Fund V, but we are a stand-alone company and have the ability to make investments on our own, although there is no intention to make an independent investment in the short-term.
Our focus is on long-term capital growth and, as such, it is not expected that we will pay any dividends in the short to medium-term.
Cash generated by investments will be reinvested to grow the Companys Net Asset Value.
Performance REL had a NAV per share at the end of December of $16.04.
In the two months since listing, REL, through the Partnership, has made its first two commitments of $100 million in Liberty Resources II LLC and $50 million in Eagle Energy Exploration LLC with the right to commit up to an additional $50 million for a total commitment of $100 million.
Consistent with our stated investment strategy, both investments are targeting opportunities in the North American exploration and production areas.
The investments are with proven management teams with whom Riverstone has partnered successfully before, and we look Sir Robert Wilson forward to working with them again as they Chairman develop their new asset portfolios.
13 February 2014 1 Includes KFIs second tranche of 5 million shares at 50 million see Note 12.
