22 We are confident that the actions announced will deliver a customerfocused bank.
Five years ago RBS embarked on a strategic RCR and conduct issues can properly be Chairmans restructuring designed to correct the aspects described as legacy costs, arising from events of its business that made it particularly and actions in the run-up to the financial crisis.
statement vulnerable to the financial crisis of 2008.
The execution of that restructuring has As our 2013 results make clear, however, transformed the financial position of the restoring the strength of the banks balance Philip Hampton bank: we have reduced our balance sheet sheet was only one part of the job.
In June the Chairman by more than 1 trillion, repaid hundreds of Board announced that Stephen Hester, who billions of Government funding support and had led our financial restructuring since 2008 removed the imminent threat that our size, risk very effectively, would be stepping down as and complexity posed to the UK economy.
We selected Ross In 2013 we took further steps to resolve our McEwan to re-energise the task of building a remaining legacy balance sheet issues by bank that earns its customers trust, improves announcing the creation of RCR, with the aim operating efficiency and can move down the of accelerating the removal of these legacy path back to full private ownership.
The Board assets and releasing the capital they are still and I want to thank Stephen Hester for his tying up.
dedication to RBS and to congratulate him on his success in putting the bank on to a sound We have also taken very substantial charges footing.
for a variety of conduct-related issues, including LIBOR, PPI, interest rate swaps and There have been a number of other changes RMBS litigation.
Almost all of these costs for to the Boards composition during the year.
Chairmans statement 23 Bruce Van Saun took up his new role as done serious damage to RBSs reputation.
Clearly there are issues we are looking Chairman and Chief Executive of RBS Citizens That is why we instructed the law firm Clifford at currency, the application of financial Financial Group, Inc. on 1 October 2013 and Chance to conduct an independent review.
regulation, lender of last resort, credit ratings has stepped down from the Board having This is an area where all banks routinely make which could affect us.
But there is real done an excellent job as our Group Finance difficult judgments, and indeed the banking uncertainty about how any of these matters Director.
He was succeeded by Nathan sector has been criticised for excessive would be settled in the event of a Yes vote and Bostock, who has since confirmed his forbearance in recent years, charged with the outcome would depend on negotiations resignation: his leaving date has not yet been supporting unviable zombie companies for between the two governments.
Indeed, there agreed and the search for his replacement is too long.
could be a prolonged period of uncertainty under way.
over each of the issues so it really is Issues like this continue to underscore the impossible to quantify with any precision what Two of our non-executive directors, Joe important role played by culture and values the effects of each might be right now.
MacHale and Art Ryan, also retired from the in enabling us to become the trusted bank Board in 2013 and Philip Scott will step down we aspire to be.
The Board fully supports the We are confident that the actions announced from the Board by 31 October 2014.
I thank new values we launched in 2013, and it is will deliver a customer-focused bank with them all for the hard work and wisdom they vital that we continue to set the tone from undoubted capital strength, the potential have brought as directors.
In December 2013, the top in the coming year to drive essential for attractive returns and an ability to we also welcomed Robert Gillespie as a new cultural change.
recommence dividends over the medium term.
I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to all On many of these issues we have engaged Philip Hampton of my fellow directors for their commitment and closely with HM Treasury HMT through Chairman readiness to deal with the unusual challenges UK Financial Investments, which manages of a  listed company.
HMTs shareholding, and with our two main regulators, the Prudential Regulation Authority Ross McEwan is bringing a fresh perspective and the Financial Conduct Authority.
Over to RBSs challenges, and that perspective the course of the year they have all proposed is now bearing fruit in the results of the actions for consideration by the Board.
strategic review that we are setting out.
The Board believes that this was the right time Ross McEwan has spoken of the need to for this review, so as to ensure that we target reset our relationship with HMT and our main our future efforts firmly towards serving regulators.
I hope and believe that we have our customers, shareholders and wider made good progress in this direction.
There stakeholders in the best possible way.
is a desire on all sides that our relationship with the Government in its role as controlling Regrettably, last year brought further shareholder should be primarily managed by reminders that many of our customers UKFI on a commercial, arms length basis.
I and stakeholders do not trust us to do so.
want to make it clear, however, that the path In response to persistent criticism of our we have set and decisions we have taken performance in lending to SMEs the Board reflect the Boards view of what is in the commissioned an independent review by Sir interests of all RBSs shareholders and other Andrew Large: we expect to adopt all of his stakeholders.
We are monitoring the debate on Scottish We also faced accusations that our Global independence but, as I and my colleagues Restructuring Group had been culpable have said many times, we are politically of systematic and institutional behaviour neutral.
We dont support political parties in artificially distressing otherwise viable or political movements.
We will respond to businesses.
No evidence has been provided whatever voters decide and governments for that allegation but it has, nevertheless, agree.
