14 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MARTIN SCICLUNA FOLLOWING AN EXTREMELY TOUGH 2013, Chairman WE ARE TAKING SWIFT AND DECISIVE ACTION TO IMPROVE THE CAPITAL STRENGTH OF THE GROUP AND OPTIMISE THE GROUPS PORTFOLIO.
There is no doubt that 2013 was a difficult year for RSA.
Extreme weather across Scandinavia, Canada, and the UK and Ireland coupled with the problems we identified in Ireland in the final quarter led to a very disappointing performance for the Group.
This, together with our decision to write down certain goodwill and intangible assets, led to a loss after tax of 338m.
In Canada we experienced heavy flooding in Alberta in June and Toronto in July, as well as a significant ice storm in Toronto in December.
Northern Europe was badly affected by three storms which swept across the continent in November and December.
These events created one of the worst years for weather claims at RSA for some time with weather losses 112m worse than our initial expectations for 2013.
However, extreme weather is something we are used to, albeit not at the levels we experienced in 2013.
What we didnt plan for was a 200m loss in Ireland which was caused by a combination of management irregularities and the need for significant reserve strengthening.
The issues which emerged in Ireland are totally unacceptable and have led to a thorough review of our risk and control processes which have included the involvement of external independent firms.
As we expected, these reviews confirmed RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 15 our view that the issues in Ireland were extensive global financial services expertise.
Jos Streppel will succeed He has an outstanding track record of Malcolm Le May as Chair of the Group isolated to Ireland, but we are further tightening our processes across the Group transforming the performance of businesses, Investment Committee on the same date.
bringing new energy and focus, and The sign of the true strength of an to ensure that these types of events do not happen again.
implementing a challenging agenda to ensure organisation is how it deals with adversity.
significant value is delivered for customers Despite a very challenging year, I have been In early December, the Board accepted the resignation of Simon Lee, the Group and shareholders.
Stephen started by impressed by the quality of our people and immediately picking up the reins on the the way they have remained focused and Chief Executive, and asked me to assume the responsibilities of Executive Chairman.
business review, and I reverted back to committed to the organisations goals.
I look my role as Non-Executive Chairman.
forward to a much better year in 2014.
I would like to thank Simon for his contribution to RSA over the last decade At the end of February 2014, this review had progressed well, and has and will lead and also over the last two years as Group Chief Executive, a period that has featured to a number of changes to the Groups portfolio and structure.
At the time of a number of significant challenges.
The Board wishes him well for the future.
writing, selected business disposals are Martin Scicluna already underway, and we are shrinking In addition to these issues, the Group Chairman continued to face headwinds from the our exposure to less profitable markets.
We have also taken other actions to prolonged low interest rate environment which continues to depress investment strengthen our capital position, such as the sale of most of our equities portfolio income.
Moderation of anticipated economic growth across our emerging markets has, and the purchase of additional reinsurance in part, been offset by an improving outlook protection.
Finally, at our Preliminary Results in our developed markets of the UK, Canada Announcement on 27 February 2014 we and Scandinavia.
announced our intention to raise capital Despite these very challenging events, through a rights issue.
It is a difficult decision I remain firmly of the view that RSA is a to ask shareholders for additional financial high quality business with much to offer commitment and the Board did not take this shareholders.
Our market positions in the decision lightly.
The Board firmly believes territories we operate in are very strong that this is in the best interests of RSA and and we have excellent people who are all of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
committed to delivering for our customers Regrettably, the impact of our 2013 and, in turn, delivering for our shareholders.
results and the rights issue that we intend This commitment was very much in evidence to launch, do not justify the payment of a in helping our customers through the impacts final dividend.
of the extreme weather they experienced In addition to the appointment of in 2013.
Stephen as Group Chief Executive, we At the end of 2013, the Board welcomed another new Board member, Kath reconsidered the capital position of the Cates, during 2013.
Kath brings a wealth of Group in light of recent events, and agreed financial services experience to the Board.
to conduct a thorough review of the business Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May have with the objectives of improving the capital indicated that they do not intend to stand for strength of the Group, optimising the re-election at the forthcoming Annual Groups portfolio and delivering a sustainable General Meeting and will retire as Directors dividend into the future.
I would like to Part way through this business review, thank them both for their contribution to on 4 February 2014, I was very pleased to be RSA.
With effect from that date, Johanna able to announce the appointment of Stephen Waterous will succeed Edward Lea as the Hester as RSAs new Group Chief Executive.
Senior Independent Director and Kath Cates He is an exceptional business leader with will succeed him as Chair of the Board Risk 16 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2013: A CHALLENGING YEAR 2013 was a very disappointing year for the Group.
We uncovered irregularities and the need for significant reserve strengthening in our Irish business, and also faced challenging weather conditions across our operations in Canada, Scandinavia and the UK.
TIMELINE: OUR RESPONSE: IRELAND October 2013 conclusion of internal The work of PwC, KPMG and RSAs Group audit work in Ireland on reserving for Internal Audit confirms the Boards view that notified claims.
there is nothing fundamentally wrong with RSAs Control Framework and the issues 5 November 2013 we announced that identified were restricted to Ireland.
we had commenced a review of our Nevertheless, we acknowledge that Irish reserves with the probable need there are lessons to be learnt and we are for strengthening.
tightening elements of our Control and 8 November 2013 announced the suspension Financial Framework in response to these of RSA Irelands CEO, CFO and Claims events.
Specifically, there are four key things Director, pending the outcome of we are in the process of addressing: an investigation into issues in the Irish claims 1.
As a result of the issues in Ireland we and finance functions.
Announced capital are ensuring that the appropriate checks injection into RSA Insurance Ireland.
and balances in our operating model 10 November 2013 announced the are working properly and that we appointment of PwC to undertake a can demonstrate their rigour and THE ISSUES: comprehensive review of the issues identified independence.
During the second half of 2013 we announced in the Irish claims and finance functions.
two significant issues in our Irish business.
We are reviewing how we ensure 28 November 2013 announced the that Group policies are adhered to 1.
As a result of a routine internal audit, resignation of RSA Irelands CEO, and implemented appropriately locally, the terms of which were informed by Philip Smith.
and tightening up the procedures the outcome of a Central Bank of Ireland where necessary.
review, we identified financial impacts of 13 December 2013 announced the 37m primarily due to irregularities within completion of the Irish reserve review 3.
We are tightening up our processes our Irish claims and finance functions, and a further injection of 135m of to reduce the risk of management override and 35m primarily due to inappropriate capital into RSA Insurance Ireland.
accounting for net earned premiums 8 January 2014 following an internal 4.
Finally, we are ensuring that our and pipeline earnings.
The irregularities disciplinary process, RSA Irelands CFO whistleblowing policy is recommunicated involved inappropriate collaboration and Claims Director were dismissed for to all employees and is effective and on large loss and claims accounting.
their roles in the irregularities.
During the course of 2013 we identified 9 January 2014 announced the findings issues with bodily injury claims in our Irish of PwCs review which describes the RSA business.
This prompted a full internal Group Control Framework as appropriate review of the Irish reserves, resulting in in terms of structure and design, and that the announcement of 128m of reserve inappropriate collaboration amongst a small strengthening of which around half related number of senior executives in Ireland to business written in 2013 and around undermined control effectiveness over half related to business written in previous claims.
Also announced that additional years.
Around three-quarters of the overall assurance testing from newly appointed strengthening was due to the adverse external auditor KPMG and RSA Group bodily injury trends.
Internal Audit confirmed that the irregularities were isolated to Ireland.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 17 During 2013, RSA was affected by extreme WEATHER weather conditions across some of its major markets.
This has had a significant impact on profitability for the year, with adverse weather accounting for 3.5 points of the combined ratio.
Our priority at these difficult times is on providing care and support to our customers, brokers and affected local employees.
In response to the increasing impact that adverse weather is having on the insurance industry, we have increased IMAGES our planning assumption for weather to 1 Fallen tree obstructs a road 3.0 points of the combined ratio.
2 Aftermath of the ice storm 1 T oronto, Canada December 2013.
EUROPEAN WIND STORM XAVER Impacted Denmark and Sweden on 5 December.
We also saw exposure in our UK business.
Wind speeds peaked at nearly 100mph close to the border between Denmark and Germany.
The total net cost to RSA was 33m.
2 EUROPEAN WIND STORM ALBERTA AND GREATER DECEMBER UK STORMS ST JUDE TORONTO AREA FLOODS Severe adverse weather impacted the UK On 27 and 28 October, a severe windstorm In June, Calgary and the surrounding areas in late December with strong winds, heavy affected Northern Europe, including the UK, of Southern Alberta experienced major rainfall and significant flooding.
Claims Scandinavia and the Baltics.
The majority of flooding following heavy rainfall and resulting notifications to RSA peaked at nearly the UK was affected by peak wind speeds river overflow.
The floods were the costliest 40 times the expected daily level for these of up to 60mph.
Scandinavia experienced natural disaster in Canadian history with dates.
very strong winds in several heavily populated an estimated insurance industry loss of areas.
The storm increased in strength over around CAD$1.7bn.
Over 1,000 claims the North Sea and over Denmark, with were reported to RSA, with the majority wind speeds hitting more than 110mph, the of losses coming from Commercial highest ever measured in Denmark.
reflected in the level of building damage with In July, record rainfall in the Greater an exceptionally high level of roof damage.
Toronto Area resulted in flash flooding, In addition, the storm tracked directly over blackouts and public transit disruptions.
the heavily insured areas of Aarhus and The 126mm of rain surpassed the previous Copenhagen in Denmark, and Malmo and single-day rainfall record which had stood Gothenburg in Sweden.
Around 2,500 claims were ATLANTIC ICE STORM A severe ice storm a storm which results speed was 88mph and the damage was reported to us and, with an estimated primarily caused by wind damage with insurance industry loss of around in the accumulation of at least 0.25 inches of ice on exposed surfaces hit Toronto and minimal impact from rainfall.
The total CAD$0.9bn, this event was the third net cost to RSA across Scandinavia and costliest natural disaster in Canadian Eastern Canada in December with significant damage to trees, resulting in extensive power the UK was 36m history.
cuts, property and auto damage.
