Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Chairmans Statement Investment Performance The year to 30 September 2013 was challenging for Asian markets and the Companys net asset value produced a total return of 1.9%.
Following several years of out-performance, the Company also under-performed its benchmark Index as the MSCI All Countries Asia ex.
Japan Index produced a total return of 5.3% over the year.
The Companys share price produced a total return of 3.0%.
A more detailed comment on performance and investment policy may be found in the Investment Managers Review.
Final Dividend The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.35 pence per share for the year ended 30 September 2013, unchanged from the 3.35 pence per share paid in respect of the previous financial year.
Net revenue after taxation for the year remained static when compared to the previous year 2013: 5,000,0002012: 4,916,000.
If the resolution proposed at the Annual General Meeting to pay a final dividend is passed, the dividend will be paid on 4 February 2014 to shareholders on the Register on 3 January 2014.
Board Composition Mr Robert Boyle decided to step down from the Board in June 2013.
The Board would like to thank him for his valuable contribution to the Company during his tenure.
As part of the Boards succession planning, a search for a new Director has been instigated and it is the intention that an appointment will be made during the current financial year.
Subject to this appointment, one of the longer-serving Directors will retire at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Gearing At the beginning of the year, the Companys gearing stood at 5.7% and, whilst the Company continued to utilise borrowings, these were offset by cash balances at the end of the year with the effect that the Company had a net cash position at that time of 3.3%.
The borrowings were obtained via a revolving credit facility in order to provide flexibility, and the facility was renewed on an unsecured basis in April 2013.
The Board continues to review the gearing position on a regular basis and believes that the ability to gear will add value over the long term.
Final Subscription Share Exercise As mentioned in my interim statement, the final date on which subscription shares could be exercised was 31 December 2012.
A total of 28,443,527 Ordinary shares were issued following the final exercise date and the Companys issued share capital now consists of 169,700,716 ordinary shares of 10p each, with each share carrying the right to one vote.
Purchase of Shares for Cancellation At the Companys last Annual General Meeting on 29 January 2013, the Company was given the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of its issued share capital for cancellation.
During the year under review, a total of 4,700,000 Ordinary shares were purchased for cancellation in accordance with the Companys discount control policy.
The Board continues to monitor the discount to which the Companys Ordinary shares trade on the market and to consider whether purchases of the Ordinary shares should be made on a regular basis.
It therefore proposes that this authority be renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Over the last year, the longer term target maximum discount level was again set at approximately 10%.
The Board monitored the discount at which the shares trade to the capital only net asset value which averaged 9.6% over the year ended 30 September 2013.
The Board continues to believe that it is not necessarily in the best interests of shareholders as a whole to adopt a rigid discount control mechanism that seeks to target a defined maximum discount level regardless of market conditions.
Instead the Board continues to follow a more flexible strategy that takes into account the level of discount at which the Companys peer group trades as well as the absolute level of its own discount and prevailing market conditions.
4 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Chairmans Statement However, the Board has made a revision to its discount control policy which will, in future, be monitored using the income-inclusive NAV as a base.
This revision has been made following consultation with the Boards advisors.
The Board will continue to target 10% as a maximum level but will review it quarterly and will amend the target in line with market conditions as necessary.
Articles of Association The Company is seeking shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to update the Companys Articles of Association to remove references to the subscription shares, which are no longer in existence, and to reflect recent changes to the company law and tax regime in the UK applying to investment trust companies.
Following a recent change in legislation, the Company is no longer required to include a prohibition on distributing capital profits in its Articles and the proposed Articles remove this prohibition.
A summary of the other proposed amendments to the Articles of Association is set out in the Report of the Directors.
Outlook For the first time in four years Asian markets have gone out of favour.
There are good short-term reasons for this, as discussed in the Managers Review, but the scale of underperformance compared to most developed markets is sufficient to query whether there are more fundamental problems in the region.
Nonetheless, your Board remains positive towards investment in Asia.
The region faces two potentially painful longterm transitions: the eventual end of Western quantitative easing, and Chinas move towards a lower growth path.
Both are well-known, however, and we believe that most Asian governments and companies face these challenges with stronger finances and better growth momentum than many other developing markets.
The Managers Review notes that the markets underperformance has left share ratings below their historic averages.
The Board continues to expect long-term out-performance by the region.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 30 January 2014 at 11.30 a. m. and shareholders are encouraged to attend.
As in previous years, Matthew Dobbs, on behalf of the Investment Manager, will give a presentation on the prospects for Asia and the Companys investment strategy.
The Hon Rupert Carington Chairman 13 December 2013 5
