Chairmans statement Recognising our financial strength 2013 was a record year for Schroders.
Profit before tax and exceptional items and confidence in our long-term increased 41 per cent.
After exceptional growth prospects, the Board is items, profit before tax increased 24 per cent.
Basic earnings recommending a 40 per cent.
increase per share increased 25 per cent.
in the final dividend to 42.0 pence.
The acquisitions of STW Fixed Income and Cazenove Capital during the year strengthened our North American and Wealth Management businesses, both of which were identified as growth opportunities in the 2012 strategic review.
The Boards findings from the strategic review, which showed Schroders was positioned to perform well, have been validated.
Our highly diversified business model, supported by a strong financial position and trusted reputation, has led to strong new business wins globally and across different asset classes.
The Groups performance in 2013 is outlined in more detail in the Chief Executives statement on page 10.
Our success has also translated into a strong performance for our shareholders with Schroders ordinary share price increasing by 57 per cent.
Putting our clients Dividend at the centre of Our policy is to increase dividends what we do and the progressively in line with the trend in profitability.
Reflecting these record stability of the Group results, the Board will recommend to over the long term shareholders at the Annual General Meeting an increase in the final dividend have been key to of 40 per cent.
taking the final dividend to Schroders success.
This will bring the total dividend for the year to 58.0 pence 2012: 43.0 pence, an increase of 35 per cent.
The final dividend will be paid on 7 May 2014 to shareholders on the register at 28 March 2014.
Regulatory change Following changes made to the UK regulatory framework in April 2013, Schroders has new UK regulators with the creation of the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
6 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Overview Dividend per share The separation of conduct regulation and People pence per share prudential regulation means that conduct During the year, an additional 517 Interim 16.0 risk has become a key focus for the FCA employees joined Schroders, most as Final 42.0 and we welcome this.
Putting our clients a result of the acquisitions of STW and Full year 58.0 at the centre of what we do has always Cazenove Capital.
During the Board The final dividend is payable on 7 May 2014. been a key part of Schroders values visit to New York in May, we had the and culture.
opportunity to welcome personally the STW employees who have relocated We recognise and support the need for to our New York office.
better industry regulation and the role it plays in improving trust and enhancing Our people are committed to the firm, market stability for the benefit of clients.
sharing the Boards vision of being a Nonetheless the degree of regulatory world class asset and wealth manager change, in particular the considerable and we can be proud of what we have body of European and global regulation, achieved in 2013.
Ensuring that we retain continues to have a significant impact on and develop a deep pool of diversified the asset management industry.
We are talent is one of our key strategic goals.
currently monitoring over 100 material This has been the key to Schroders regulatory developments as part of our performance in recent years.
On behalf engagement with over 30 regulators of the Board, I should like to thank everyone around the world.
that works for Schroders for their efforts in 2013.
Each individual has made an We have invested heavily in our important contribution in helping to deliver compliance and risk resources over these record results.
More information on the key regulatory changes that may impact the firm are on page 41.
Andrew Beeson Chairman The Board 5 March 2014 Richard Keers was appointed as Chief Financial Officer and joined the Board in May 2013.
Richards previous experience in  financial services practice from 1988 enables him to make a valuable contribution to the Group.
New headquarters for Schroders at One London Wall Place In December 2013, we signed an agreement for lease on a new 310,000 sq.
ft. building to be constructed at the intersection of London Wall and Moorgate in the City of London.
We expect to move into One London Wall Place in the second half of 2017.
This move represents a unique opportunity to consolidate all our London-based employees in a single, modern working environment and in an excellent location.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7 Disciplined Delivering competitive performance through disciplined investment processes and active engagement with companies in which we invest Consistent and superior investment performance is the key factor behind growth in net new business.
We target at least 60 per cent.
of assets under management to outperform benchmark or peer group over rolling three-year periods.
68%of assets under management outperformed over the three years to 31 December 2013 See Glossary for definition.
8 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Strategy Chief Executives statement 10 Market developments 12 Strategy 18 Key performance indicators 20 Our business model 22 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9
