Chairmans Statement Performance Dividends The net asset value per share NAV total return for the year to The board is recommending a final dividend of 6.80p per share 31October 2013 was 28.2% with borrowings at market value 2012: 6.65p.
If approved, taken together with the interim dividend which compares to the 24.3% sterling total return of the global of 4.80p per share 2012: 4.60p, this will result in an increase of FTSE All-World Index and 22.8% from the UK FTSE All-Share 3.1% in the total regular dividend for the year to 11.60p per share Index.
The share price total return was 28.6% as the share price 2012: 11.25p which compares with October UK CPI inflation of reached a new all-time high in late October.
The companys global 2.2% and RPI of 2.6%.
If the proposal is approved, the company equity portfolio achieved a total return of 25.4%, outperforming will have increased its dividend in each of the last 30 years.
In view global equities for a third consecutive year, and is now ahead of of the strength of the revenue account in the year under review the the global index over 1, 2, 3, 5 and 10 years.
board is also recommending a special dividend of 1.80p per share, making a combined distribution for the year of 13.40p, an increase The NAV performance of 28.2% resulted from portfolio of 19.1% on the previous year.
outperformance of a strong global equity market while the gains from gearing added 1.4% to NAV, almost fully offsetting the 1.7% Discount and Share Buybacks charge for expenses and interest on borrowings.
The increase in The discount to ex-income NAV with borrowings at market value long-term interest rates and a change in the basis of valuing the was again broadly stable, ending the year at 8.6%.
The companys companys long-term borrowings noted in the interim statement buyback policy is intended to keep the discount to ex-income NAV combined to raise the NAV by 2.7%.
at or below 9.0% with borrowings at market value.
Under the policy, 1.9m 2012: 2.4m shares were repurchased for cancellation The majority of the returns for the year were achieved in a strong over the financial year accounting for 1.7% of the shares in issue at rally between November and late May as stockmarkets responded the start of the period.
The shares were repurchased at an average to a series of generally supportive events which included the EUs discount of 9.7% and a cost of 10.1m 2012: 11.1m inclusive of bailout of Greece, further quantitative easing QE by the US Federal dealing expenses.
The average discount over the year was 9.5% Reserve Bank, a resolution of the US fiscal cliff spending impasse and the average between the introduction of the scheme in and the election of Shinzo Abe as prime minister of Japan.
Mr Abes February 2006 and the year-end was 8.8%.
three-pronged policy measures to haul Japan out of deflation ignited a rally of almost 60% in Japanese equities.
Global markets Board Composition lost momentum thereafter on concerns over Cyprus and spent During the year, Francis Finlay retired as a non-executive director.
the second half of the year in a volatile trading range as economic Francis had served on the board since 1996, over which period uncertainties resurfaced and investors sought clarity as to when the the company benefited greatly from his knowledge of financial US central bank would begin to rein in its QE stimulus programme.
markets and of investment management.
On behalf of the board and shareholders, I should like to thank him for his outstanding contribution.
Global equity returns over the year were led by Europe ex UK, Japan and, while not dominating global returns as in recent years, James Will was appointed as a non-executive director of the North America.
Currency played a significant role with euro strength company during the year and will stand for election at the annual boosting the Europe ex UK regional local currency total return general meeting.
He is chairman of Shepherd and Wedderburn, to 31.5% in sterling terms.
In Japan, the remarkable stockmarket solicitors, and has extensive experience of investment trusts.
rally of over 50% in yen terms reflecting optimism about the effect of Abenomics was reduced to a sterling return of 34.6% by the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM related very significant drop in the value of the yen.
The pattern of global industry returns generally reflected optimism that the central Directive bank stimulus measures would revive global growth with strongest The new obligations on investment trust companies stemming from returns coming from Consumer Services, Industrials, Financials and the European Unions AIFM Directive are becoming clear and we are Consumer Goods as well as the more defensive Health Care industry.
taking steps to meet them.
Despite a relative under-exposure to the North America region and Outlook also to a resurgent Japanese equity market, the companys equity The strong gains in major stockmarkets in the past year have owed portfolio again outperformed, owing to material additions to a much to the central banks stimulus measures in the US, Japan strong Europe ex UK market and positive regional stock selection and elsewhere, and the eventual withdrawal of these measures results.
The portfolio outperformed in all regions comprising the represents a potential danger.
Furthermore, profit margins are All-World Index with the exception of North America.
There were unusually wide and the valuations of attractive companies look notable absolute and relative sterling total returns from Japan, high.
The background for equity markets is therefore challenging, Asia Pacific ex Japan, Europe ex UK and the UK.
Our Japanese but we believe that our portfolio is relatively well placed and we investments returned 59.8% in sterling terms, some 25 percentage have over 100m of borrowings available to invest should more points more than the index.
Despite lagging global markets, our attractive buying opportunities arise.
Latin American investments also beat the regional index.
The global equity portfolios active share compared to the FTSE All-World Index, a measure of the portfolios differentiation from the underlying index, at the year-end was 88% 2012: 85%.
Douglas McDougall Income Chairman It was a strong year for income with total income increasing by 8.4% 12 December 2013 to 22.3m despite maintaining a lower level of investment in equities over the second half of the year and a smaller contribution from special dividends.
4 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013
