54 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chairmans Report More information is provided in the next few pages about how your Board works, and in particular the formal structures which are necessary and helpful in ensuring sound corporate governance.
However, I believe along with many commentators that these structures are not, on their own, sufficient to safeguard the interests of clients and shareholders.
What is necessary in addition is a set of values, a culture and an operating approach, which together support the effective stewardship of shareholders and clients interests.
The Board must therefore be prepared to be consistent and clearsighted in continuing its leadership, support and oversight of that culture and in particular the principle that St. Jamess Place will seek to do the right thing for its clients and thus for its shareholders.
This will be my main aim in providing leadership to the Board.
Board Composition Reflecting the continuing growth of our Company and the sale of the Lloyds Banking Group LBG shareholding, the Board has seen a number of changes over the last financial year.
Sarah Bates Chairman At the end of 2013, Charles Gregson stepped down as Chairman in order to be able to devote more time to his other directorships.
We are grateful for his contribution as both a Nonexecutive I am pleased to be making my first report as Chairman of Director and then Chairman.
Mike Power also stepped down at St. Jamess Place.
During my time as an independent the end of the year, having been Chair of the Risk Committee and Nonexecutive Director of St. Jamess Place I have been fortunate having contributed considerably to the way we think about risk enough to serve the Board in many capacities, starting with the over the last nine years.
However, we are pleased he will remain Investment Committee and Risk Committee, but more recently as an independent Nonexecutive Director on the Board of as Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration St. Jamess Place International plc, the Groups Dublinbased life Committee.
In my new role, I will also chair the Nomination company.
At the same time, Iain Cornish became the Senior Committee.
As a result, I know the Company well and am proud Independent Director and Chairman of the Risk Committee.
to have been a Board member during a period of growth for clients, shareholders and employees.
There was much change in the representation of LBG on the Board during the year.
Firstly, in June, Steve Colsell was replaced That growth has been strong and the success has been reflected in by Sue Harris and Alison Hewitt.
However, following the a number of ways, including the recognition given to us by completion of the sale of the LBG shareholding, both Sue and various industry awards such as Britains Most Admired Company Alison also stepped down from the Board.
We are grateful for the Top in Sector award from Management Today, but also in the support and insights of all those Directors who have represented progression of our stock market ranking.
As a Board, our task LBG during recent years.
over the next few years is to maintain such safe and sustainable growth as is in the interests of all our stakeholders.
Our challenge is threefold: to maintain those characteristics which have led to the success of the Company over the last 23 years: to adapt to the changing world around us and the opportunities it provides: and to build the management team and approach for the next 20years.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Finally, as part of our process of ongoing renewal of the Board, we appointed two new Nonexecutive Directors.
Simon Jeffreys has a wealth of audit and financial services experience and we are pleased that he will be taking over as Chair of the Audit Committee in March 2014.
Roger Yates has extensive knowledge and experience, particularly of the investment industry, and we are pleased that he will be taking over as Chair of the Remuneration Committee following the AGM.
We look forward to the expertise and experience they will bring to the Board.
The Future 2013 was a very significant year for St. Jamess Place and its shareholders.
Over the course of 12 months our shareholder base has been transformed and we have welcomed new investors from around the world.
However, our ambitions for the future havent changed.
We remain a wellrespected and trusted provider of high quality advice and wealth management services, and we will continue to build on that success.
But we know that our success stems from our culture, and so we will continue to focus on our values, and in particular on doing the right thing for our clients and thus for our shareholders.
I look forward to working with the Board on these aspirations.
