12 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 Chairmans statement We are positive on thelonger term outlook for private equity.
I am pleased to report another year of good results with an impressive track record.
Established in 1978 and progress towards our strategic goals.
the firm has raised US$16.0 billion through eight funds with its ninth fund targeting a final close at The Companys investment portfolio has performed approximately US$6.0 billion during 2014. strongly, contributing to NAV per share growth of 31.5% to 514.5p and distributions of 304.7 million.
These commitments all followed a process of deep A significant percentage 48.4% of our portfolio is analysis and detailed due diligence, and we will now quoted and it was the performance of the share continue to allocate capital in a disciplined manner prices of two of our larger holdings, Hugo Boss and to maximise returns for shareholders.
1 Media, that drove much of the return medium term our aim is to offer our shareholders during the year, together adding 214.9million to aliquid, single point exposure to private equity and the value of theinvestment portfolio.
private equity related assets, allocating capital across the asset class dependent on market conditions.
We have also made good progress in selecting newinvestments for the portfolio, with three new The substantial proceeds from our portfolio over the commitments during the year.
The first two, to year have allowed us both to deleverage and to Cinven and Permira, were announced in the first half make substantial distributions, in accordance with and the third, a US$140.0 million commitment to our target of returning up to 470.0 million of capital Clayton Dubilier & Rice Fund IX, has now been to shareholders.
We pre-paid all of our outstanding finalised.
Clayton Dubilier & Rice CD&R is a Senior Notes during the 12 months and ended the leading US and European mid-to-large buyout firm year with net cash of 115.2 million, or 9.4% of shareholders funds.
At the same time we returned 151.1 million to shareholders, taking the total amount returned to shareholders since December 2011 to 253.0 million, or 54% of our target, and we will be seeking shareholders permission at the forthcoming AGM for a further series of tenders.
Thefirst of these tenders, for a minimum of 50.0million, is expected to take place in May.
Thepricing of this tender will be with reference to the share price and the 31 March 2014 NAV per share rolled forward for movements in quoted holdings, finance costs, foreign exchange, realisations and fees.
The Board As previously announced, we have made some important changes to the Board during the year.
David Robins joined the Board in August 2013 and became Senior Independent Director in November when Charles Sinclair stepped down from the Board after almost nine years of service.
On behalf of the Directors, I would like to reiterate our welcome to David and to express our gratitude to Charles for hisvaluable contribution over many years.
Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 13 We have made good progress in selecting new investments for the portfolio with three new commitments during theyear.
This recovery remains somewhat fragile, Regulatory environment and we remain cognisant that a number of 514.5p The AIFMD is a European Union Directive which challenges remain in the form of high levels of NAV per share creates a European-wide framework for the government debt, anaemic growth, political risks at 31 Dec 2013 regulation of managers of all alternative investment and tight fiscal policy.
This Directive came into force in the UK in During 2013 the environment for private equity July 2013, with a one-year transitional period.
Confidence returned to the TheCompany will comply with AIFMD by the sector, with rising deal volumes and managers July2014 deadline.
taking advantage of the relatively strong exit 31.5% environment and buoyant credit markets to return Change of year end Increase in our capital to investors.
The deal environment remains NAV per share As SVG Capitals investment portfolio moves away competitive and whilst pricing in Europe has drifted over the year from a single manager focus to one that is more down slightly and remained relatively stable in the diversified, there are a number of implications for US, receptive credit markets have led to higher levels reporting, the most material of which is the of leverage in transactions, particularly in the US.
expectation that valuations will be received across a Against this background, our focus is on investing broader timeframe.
Accordingly, SVG Capital will be with and alongside general partners who maintain changing year end from 31 December to 31 January.
discipline and whose investment approach is The Company will announce its interim results for focusedon business improvement.
the six months to 30 June 2014 in August and its full year results for the 13 months to 31 January 2015 in Fundraising in 2013 reached its highest level since March 2015.
Thereafter, interim results for the six 2008 with over 19 funds in Europe and the US months to 31 July will be announced in September.
having final closes above US$2.0 billion.
A number ofhigh quality European managers are expected to Outlook be fundraising towards the end of 2014 and during 2015 and we are in early due-diligence on several 2013 saw equity markets rise strongly, with some European private equity firms.
However, in the near indices reaching new highs.
While we have seen term we believe the pipeline of US managers is more some pick-up in economic growth, much of the attractive with a number of high quality managers impetus for market strength has been attributed pursuing attractive and differentiated strategies in tothe US Federal Reserves continuing programme the market in 2014. of quantitative easing, combined with very accommodating monetary policy in other major We are positive on the longer term outlook for the developed economies, including Japan.
private equity asset class and future returns from our portfolio.
For the near future performance will 2014 has started with a modest stock market continue to be driven by the more mature Permira correction, and particular weakness in emerging IV assets, but this balance will begin to shiftto newer markets.
Against the background of a gradual investments as these assets are sold.
Looking at these tapering of the monetary stimulus provided by the newer investments, on the whole we are pleased Federal Reserve, and continuing structural issues in with the progress to date and believe that our the EU, there is a risk of a more severe correction if managers have been disciplined and have identified corporate earnings disappoint or there is a shock to clear strategies for value creation.
It is likely, however, that central banks will maintain generally accommodative monetary Andrew Sykes policy in response to any threat to economic Chairman recovery, and it is clear that consumer and investor 14 February 2014 confidence has been rising as signs of recovery
