4 4 Business review continued Chairmans statement Lord Harris of Peckham Chairman In my statement last year, I said we would look to restore payment The backbone of the business and of a dividend when debt has been reduced, a sustained recovery is the key to Carpetrights future success evident and the financial results of the Group reflected this.
Good progress has been made on the debt and we believe our self-help will be the quality of our service, activities have momentum, although it is important to continue to backed by the very best product invest in these to improve the level of profitability.
That said, the economic environment continues to be uncertain and the Board ranges at competitive prices.
feel it is important to see a continued recovery before restoring the dividend.
The Board believes the difficult decision not to pay a dividend is in the best interests of the business and the Board will In my statement last year I noted that, while we expected economic continue to review the dividend policy on a biannual basis.
conditions to remain difficult for some time, we were encouraged In May 2012, Darren Shapland was appointed as Chief Executive that we were beginning to see a positive impact from the self-help and he has made a huge contribution in his first year in this role.
These two trends did indeed come to Darren has established an Executive Committee to manage the characterise the year as a whole, with solid like-for-like sales growth business on a day-to-day basis and I am working closely with them achieved in the UK being driven by self-help actions, in an overall to pass on the benefit of my knowledge and experience.
As floor coverings market which we believe declined year on year.
In anticipated, my active executive involvement will continue to Europe, political and economic uncertainty continues to depress decrease over time as part of a progressive transfer to Darren consumer demand and this has impacted the Group particularly and the executive management team.
Against this background it is therefore encouraging to be able to report an improvement in underlying I would like to welcome Andrew Page who will be joining the Board, Group profit and a further reduction in net debt.
as a Non-Executive Director, effective from 1 July 2013.
I am sure his experience and track record will enable him to make a valuable Total revenue for the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2013 decreased by contribution to the Board.
Underlying profit before tax increased by 142.5% to 9.7m 2012: 4.0m.
After the impact of The backbone of the business and the key to Carpetrights future exceptional items the loss before tax was 5.1m 2012: profit of success will be the quality of our service, backed by the very best 13.5m further information on these items is contained in the product ranges at competitive prices.
Each is key to guaranteeing Financial Review.
Underlying earnings per share increased to 9.6p that our proposition continues to resonate with our customers.
2012: 4.5p and basic loss per share was 9.8p 2012: earnings of The management team is striving to ensure that every colleague is 16.4p.
During the period we have continued our focus on reducing fully attuned to the need for continuous improvement in all of these the Groups net debt.
It is therefore pleasing to announce that as at areas.
I am sure that our colleagues in stores, distribution centres 27 April 2013 this has nearly halved to 10.2m 2012: 19.1m, and support offices will rise to the challenge, as it is their efforts that demonstrating the ability of the Group to continue to generate cash really make the difference.
Once again, on behalf of the Board, I even in these difficult times.
extend my thanks for their commitment this year.
Looking forward, we expect fragile consumer confidence will continue to produce a weak floor coverings market.
We are concentrating on maintaining the momentum delivered by our self-help actions taken during the year, whilst recognising within our plans that economic conditions are likely to remain difficult for some time.
Lord Harris of Peckham Chairman Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013
