230986 Temple Bar pp01-pp14 14 02 2014 17:22 Page 4 Active investment working for you Chairmans statement Performance superior total returns over the longer I am pleased to report on another term.
The immediate impact of this year of good returns for our strategy is a shortfall on the 2013 shareholders.
The total return on the revenue account, such that a small net assets of Temple Bar in 2013 was part of the proposed dividend for the 31.4%, which compares with a total current year will be financed from return for the FTSE All Share Index of revenue reserves.
Temple Bar continues believes that one of the great benefits significantly to outperform its of an investment trust vehicle is the benchmark over both 5 and 10 year ability to make use of accumulated periods.
The total dividend has been revenue reserves in order to smooth increased by 3% and the share price dividend payments over the longer reached a record high during the year.
The investment portfolio is The Board is, therefore, constructed to deliver both capital recommending a final dividend of and income growth but at certain 22.65p, to produce a total dividend points in the market cycle the balance for the year of 37.75p, an increase of of returns between capital and 3%.
The dividend will be payable on income may vary.
During 2013 the 31 March 2014 to shareholders on the portfolio manager struggled to register at 14 March 2014.
The shares manager has highlighted a lack of identify a sufficient number of become ex-dividend on 12 March attractive investment opportunities in attractive investment opportunities in 2014.
This is the 30th consecutive the market.
I should, therefore, the higher yielding sector of the year in which the dividend has been emphasise that an important factor in market in which Temple Bar increased.
taking out this additional loan was to traditionally invests.
The revenue secure attractive long term fixed rate account was also hampered by a Gearing funding for the purposes of pursuing change in the accounting treatment In September 2013 the Company the Companys investment objectives of our bond holdings which resulted in completed a 50m private placement over a significant period given, in a decline in our distributable income.
loan with the Prudential Insurance particular, the prognosis for future As a consequence, revenue on the Company of America.
The loan, which interest rate increases.
In addition, the portfolio declined by 7.4% compared covers a fixed 15 year period until new loan forms part of the Boards with the prior year.
The Board is 2028, was concluded at a coupon of approach to the Companys overall comfortable that this short term 4.05%.
It may seem somewhat debt management in the context of decline in the relative yield of the incongruous for the Company to have its two existing debenture stocks, portfolio is secondary to the more taken out a new borrowing facility at which expire in 2017 and 2021 important objective of delivering the same time that the portfolio respectively.
The 4.05% loan contains certain financial covenants which might, if breached, require it to be repaid ahead of the scheduled Temple Bar continues significantly to repayment date in 2028.
The principal outperform its benchmark over both 5 and 10 covenants are set out on page 38.
At the year end, gearing calculated year periods.
The total dividend has been net of cash and related liquid assets was 2.0%.
increased by 3% and the share price reached a record high during the year.
4 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 230986 Temple Bar pp01-pp14 14 02 2014 17:22 Page 5 Active investment working for you Chairmans statement continued Share Issues and Repurchases until 22 July 2014 to comply fully benefit on all these criteria and it is The Directors have authority to issue with its requirements.
This European hoped that the Company will new ordinary shares for cash and to Union legislation is an attempt to continue to be seen as an attractive repurchase shares in the market.
prevent some of the issues which investment vehicle for both advisors During the year the Company issued have occurred as a result of perceived and for underlying retail investors.
2,771,881 new ordinary shares for a poor oversight of certain aspects of total consideration of 32,590,335 at the asset management industry.
It Electronic Communications prices representing a premium to the requires the Company to appoint an At the AGM this year the Board is prevailing net asset value.
This Alternative Investment Fund Manager proposing an ordinary resolution that demonstrates the continued AIFM and a depositary.
The will, if passed, enable the Company to attractiveness of Temple Bars shares depositary will be responsible for send or supply documents to and has the benefit of keeping the overseeing the Companys custody shareholders in electronic form such share price premium within and cash management operations.
The as by email or by means of its acceptable limits.
No shares were Board has agreed in principle to website.
The intention in so doing is repurchased during the year.
appoint Investec Fund Managers to save printing and postage costs by The Board believes that its policy Limited as the Companys AIFM and restricting hard copy documents to of share issuance and, if required, HSBC as depositary.
Further those shareholders who positively share repurchases, has helped to announcements will be made in due elect to receive them.
reduce premium discount volatility course.
It is regretted that these and recommends that these obligations will add a modest amount Annual General Meeting authorities be kept in place.
to the Companys cost base.
Our AGM will be held at Woolgate Accordingly it is seeking approval Exchange, 25 Basinghall Street, from shareholders to renew the share Retail Distribution Review RDR London EC2V 5HA on 24 March 2014 issue and repurchase authorities at The Board believes that, following the at 11.00 a. m. and I would encourage the forthcoming Annual General introduction of RDR at the beginning shareholders to attend.
of the reporting year, investment the formal business of the meeting advisors are increasingly likely to the portfolio manager, Alastair Mundy, Alternative Investment Fund favour, inter alia, those investment will make a presentation reviewing Managers Directive trusts which offer a strong investment the past year and commenting on the The Alternative Investment Fund performance, relatively low ongoing outlook.
He will also be available to Managers Directive was enacted in charges and good liquidity in their answer any questions alongside the July 2013 although the Company has shares.
Temple Bar is well placed to Directors.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM in person are encouraged to use their proxy vote.
Outlook Comparative dividend growth 2003 2013 The portfolio manager highlights in Source: Datastream his report that strong equity markets 160 limited the investment opportunities in 2013.
It is very possible that, with 150 investor sentiment high, but the future still looking uncertain, 2014 140 may bring more volatility and hence more opportunity.
