CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT Key Points NAV was 702.3 pence per share, an increase of 11.1% dividend re-invested compared to the Benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Index which increased 7.7% total return in sterling.
Share price was 640.5 pence, a rise of 8.8%, giving a total return of 10.0% dividend reinvested.
Earnings per share of 8.45 pence up 6.8%.
Proposed dividend of 6.25 pence per share, an increase of 8.7%.
Peter A Smith Chairman Performance and the investment portfolio The Investment Managers investment philosophy is to The Eurozone crisis has dominated the global economy for seek value through a disciplined, yet flexible, long-term the last two years and emerging markets have not been approach.
This disciplined investment style allows the unaffected.
In the first quarter of the accounting year under Investment Manager to look through volatility, short term review, negative sentiment continued to weigh on returns.
effects of news, noise and emotion and it is this which has However, as I reported in the Half Yearly Report, the end of driven the excellent returns which have been generated June was a turning point as European governments agreed since 1989.
As a consequence, our short term performance to recapitalise struggling banks and work towards tighter may diverge from the benchmark index.
The Company budgetary and political union.
Since then we have remains exposed to currency movements and does not witnessed three positive quarters and, as is pointed out in hedge this risk.
Indeed, 2.3% of the years total return of the Managers Report, there was a large inflow of cash into 11.1% arose from the depreciation of sterling against other emerging markets equities.
I am pleased to report that the currencies.
The portfolio holdings remain very stable and results for the year show a net asset value total return of our total portfolio turnover during the year was only 4.7%.
11.1% and a share price total return of 10.0%, both of The Investment Manager runs a concentrated portfolio, which were, by a good margin, ahead of the benchmark, with a total of 49 equity investments as at 31 March 2013. itself delivering a total return of 7.7%.
On 24 May, the The Board and Investment Manager are fully aware of the latest date for which information was available, the NAV risks inherent in holding a concentrated portfolio of per share and share price had fallen by 0.6% to investments and have in place a number of measures for 698.1 pence and by 2.3% to 626.0 pence respectively.
During the year, the Board and While an Annual Report necessarily focuses on the year Investment Manager have spent time discussing the under review, we should remember that TEMIT is managed investment risk in detail and how this is controlled.
Over the last ten years, Franklin Templeton Investments has, in addition to its the Company has delivered a total return of 541% portfolio management function, a separate risk dividends re-invested, which represents a compound management and investment performance team, with growth rate of 20.4% per annum.
Over the same period our substantial resources.
We set out on pages 14 and 15 an benchmark, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, returned overview of the investment and risk management 418% 17.9% per annum.
Since its launch in 1989 the functions.
The investment and risk teams regularly and Company has delivered a total return of 2,530% dividends thoroughly review all of the investments which we hold, to re-invested, which represents a compound growth rate of ensure that the investment case for each holding remains 14.8% per annum, compared with a return of 1,064% valid.
The full report and review of the Investment Manager 10.9% per annum by the benchmark.
6 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Your Board continually monitors the share price discount to as TEMIT then have up to a further year, until July 2014, to net asset value and exercises its right to buy back shares comply with the Directive.
The main thrust of the Directive when the Board considers that it is in shareholders is one of protecting investors from undue or unexpected interests to do so.
In November and December of last year, risk.
As a listed company with an independent Board of in particular, the demand for the Companys shares Directors and with portfolio management delegated to a weakened and during the financial year under review there large fund management group with robust risk were several buy backs, in total amounting to 1,939,460 management, we feel that TEMIT already complies with the shares at a cost of 11.1 million.
During the year shares spirit of the Directive but we are aware that a number of traded at discounts between 6.1% and 10.7% of NAV with changes will be necessary to the detailed legal structure of an average of 8.3% and at the end of the year the discount our relationship with Franklin Templeton Investments.
Your stood at 8.8%, which compares to 7.5% as at 31 March Board is working closely with the Investment Manager and 2012. with its own independent legal and other advisors and is confident that the necessary structures will be in place Investment income and the dividend ahead of the deadline in July 2014.
Although income accumulation and distribution are not Your Board is also aware of the Foreign Account Tax investment objectives, income received from our Compliance Act FATCA and will continue to work with investment portfolio has continued to grow and I am Franklin Templeton Investments to monitor the pleased to report a further increase in revenue earnings per developments with respect to the implementation of the share.
The Income Statement on page 54 reflects total Act and the Inter-Governmental Agreement between the dividend income earned of 59.5 million in the year to UK and the US authorities.
This represents an increase of 2.0% over the dividend income received for the year to 31 March Asset allocation and gearing 2012.
This translates into net earnings of 8.45 pence per The general policy of the Company is to be fully invested.
share, an increase of 6.8% over the 7.91 pence per share As at 31 March 2013, 98.8% of TEMITs net assets were for the year to 31 March 2012. invested in equities 31 March 2012: 99.5%.
Your Board This year your Board is pleased to propose a further regularly reviews its policy on gearing and we continue to increase in the dividend to 6.25 pence per share which will take a cautious stance.
This caution is borne out by the be fully covered by our earnings per share of 8.45 pence.
periods of volatility which are a feature of emerging equity This represents an increase of 8.7% over last years markets and are generally unpredictable in both timing and dividend.
Our policy, therefore, remains that in exceptional circumstances, and for short periods, TEMIT may borrow The flow of dividends from emerging market companies is up to 10% of its net assets.
Borrowing facilities were not not always as consistent as it is from, say, UK stocks and used during the two years to 31 March 2013. the increases in dividend income seen in recent years may not be repeated in the future.
Recent changes to UK taxation and company law permit investment trusts to distribute realised capital profits as dividends.
While we welcome this change, the Company has substantial revenue reserves.
The Board is not proposing any change to the Companys Articles of Association at this stage.
Regulation Many shareholders will be aware that the European Unions Alternative Investment Funds Managers Directive AIFMD comes into force on 22 July 2013 and that companies such TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED The Board Outlook In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by The rate of economic growth in emerging markets the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010, all Directors continues to outpace developed markets and, as the are required to retire each year.
Each member of the Board Investment Managers Report states, shows every sign of is standing for re-election.
As part of the annual Board continuing to do so.
This view is supported by the evaluation review, the Remuneration and Nomination continued growth of wealth in emerging markets, leading Committee considered the skills and contribution of all the to stronger internal and intra-regional demand: and in turn Directors and this year recommends re-election in each less economic dependence on the developed world.
Full details of each of the Directors can be found must, however, show some caution and remind investors starting on page 9. that the world, and particularly investment markets, will remain volatile.
The recent issues in Cyprus, for example, If re-elected, Sir Peter Burt will retire from the Board at the clearly show that there are pressure points in the worlds conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
A financial system and experience shows that not every search firm will be appointed to assist the Nomination and emerging market will perform in the same way.
We cannot Remuneration Committee to identify a new independent predict short term movements in share prices and Non-Executive Director.
recognise that volatility is a necessary cost of long-term equity investment.
Seeing clearly through the background Investor communications noise is as important as it has ever been.
Your Board The Board aims to keep shareholders informed and up to continues to believe in the efficacy of an investment date with information about the Company.
We send out process which is long-term in nature and seeks the Annual and Half Yearly Report, as well as notices of any opportunities for superior long-term growth at attractive significant Company events to registered shareholders.
also release information through the stock exchange, such as the Interim Management Statements.
co. uk displays the latest news, price and Finally I would like to take this opportunity to invite all performance information, portfolio details, quarterly web shareholders to attend the AGM to be held at Stationers updates from the Investment Manager and a blog dealing Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4M 7DD at 12 noon on with topical issues in emerging markets.
Via the website Friday 12 July 2013.
More details of this meeting can be you can also ask to have the latest Company information found on page 72 of this report.
I encourage all shareholders to register on our website and make full use of the facilities and materials available to help keep you informed about your Company.
Peter A Smith Scottish independence 4 June 2013 Your Company is incorporated in Scotland and the Board has taken note of the plans by the current Scottish Indices above are shown on a total return basis in sterling.
Government to hold a referendum on independence from Sources: Franklin Templeton Investments and FactSet.
the United Kingdom on 18 September 2014.
While it is not appropriate for the Board to make political statements, shareholders should be reassured that we will monitor developments and, in particular, any news on the adoption or otherwise of current tax and company law which either an independent Scotland, or a Scotland with greater autonomy within the United Kingdom, may pursue and take any appropriate steps to protect shareholders interests.
8 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
