THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement Peter Salsbury BSc Chairman Introduction Valedictory remarks This report marks the end of my 9 years as Chairman of your Board of Directors.
I succeeded Alastair Ross Goobey in 2004.
He was an inspiration in this field.
In Alastairs farewell statement, he was able to point to a strong ten year performance where the share price had risen from 40p in 1994 to 95p in 2004.
The dividend had increased from 0.9p per share to 2.5p.
Just as importantly, the fund managers had significantly outperformed their benchmark.
This historic reference is to emphasise the long term nature of property investment.
I believe this is just as important in equities as in physical property.
Between 2004 and 2013 the share price advanced from 95p to 186p.
Dividends have grown from 2.5p to 7.0p.
However within both periods there was significant volatility.
In the first the share price dropped in three out of the ten years, in the second it fell four times.
The latter years saw a bigger boom with our shares reaching over 230p each: an entry into and a retreat from the Sigma small company share class: and a massive crash in 2007.
In the past 20 years the dividend has been increased 19 times and held level only once in 2010.
The compound average dividend growth has been 13% per annum in the last 10 years, establishing a new level of income which has so far more than met inflation.
Shareholders have rightly looked for income more keenly in recent years.
The view that long term investors should enjoy a progressive income as well as outperformance on their asset value is a matter which the Board and our fund management team have at the top of their agenda.
These results have been achieved by fund management teams of outstanding quality.
Chris Turner was not only 6 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Chairmans Statement continued Ordinary Share Class Performance: Total Return over 10 years 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Benchmark Total Return TR Property NAV Price Total Return TR Property Share Price Total Return an exceptionally gifted manager but also recognised the Benchmark imperative of developing a very strong successor.
Marcus As at the end of March 2013, Unibail was the largest Phayre-Mudge has invested in greater international and position in the benchmark index and had reached 16.8% analytical expertise than ever before.
He has an inclusive of all constituents of the index.
The Board felt that this style both with his team and with external stakeholders, level of concentration ran contrary to the stated investment paying great attention to shareholder communication policy of a diversified portfolio.
The Board resolved to basically spreading the message that the Trust is one of the amend the benchmark index against which the manager is best ways to invest in property in a profitable and flexible way.
measured from the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Net Total Return Index in GBP to the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Last year Developed Europe Capped Net Total Return Index in Turning to the specifics of the past year I am tempted to GBP with effect from 1 April 2013.
The constituents of the refer shareholders to my statement in last years Annual benchmark index do not change, however individual stock Report volatile equity markets and the impact of macro positions are limited to 10%.
Unibail is the only stock which events.
Markets have reacted bravely to the promises of had a weighting in the previous benchmark index larger unlimited support for the Eurozone laggards, probably than 10%.
encouraged more by what is improving in North America and continued growth in Asia.
Expense Allocation The Board has reviewed the allocation of expenses Within this scenario, our property world is best described between Revenue and Capital.
Expenses are allocated as steady with hot and cold spots.
Your fund management between the revenue and capital accounts in line with the team have taken account of the macro picture and then Boards long-term expectations of the source of returns.
set about bottom up analysis of companies considering The Board examined the past, both long and shorter the quality of their assets and management to make term, and it was clear that the capital account was more investment decisions.
Performance has been significantly influential in generating returns in recent years.
The Board positive, and well ahead of a demanding benchmark, to do not expect this to change in the medium term.
Also, earn a performance fee for the first time in four years.
It having looked at allocations across the Investment Trust is worth noting that the team has consistently beaten the sector generally, the current higher allocation to revenue is benchmark over that period but not by enough to meet the greater than is the norm for Investment Trusts focused on performance fee hurdle rate.
TR Property Investment Trust 7 THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement continued For the year to March 2014, 75% of management fees Revenue Outlook will be allocated to the capital account 2013: 33.33% As set earlier the revised allocation of management fees and 25% will be allocated to the income account and finance costs will provide a new base for earnings.
Likewise, 75% of the finance costs will be allocated to capital with 25% to revenue 2013: Uncertainties surrounding the timing of dividend receipts 50% 50%.
around the year end, currency fluctuations and the impact of the income mix on the tax charge remain.
The revised allocation of expenses described above will have a positive impact on reported earnings going forward.
Our Managers current expectation is that earnings for the year ending March 2014 will be in the region of 7.50p per Sigma Conversion in December 2012 share, on the basis that the factors mentioned above do not The Board took the decision to recommend the conversion fluctuate widely.
of Sigma shares into Ordinary shares.
This was approved by shareholders and implemented in December 2012.
Net Debt and Gearing Consultation with investors had confirmed that the size of Gearing remained modest throughout the year, fluctuating Sigma was no longer on their preferred risk profile.
The debt facilities previously the overall company performance of Sigmas invested allocated between the Ordinary and Sigma share classes companies was better than the market.
I would like to thank are now all for the benefit of the Ordinary share class.
The all shareholders who helped make this transaction happen.
one year facility with RBS was renewed in January 2013 The benefits of a clear statement of purpose and structure for a further year and the ING facility was renewed for a have already been appreciated by investors.
further two year term in early May 2013.
The policy of retaining a mix of short and medium term debt remains in NAV and Share Price Performance place.
"Investing through Contracts for Difference ""CFD's"" The NAV total return for the year was 21.5% versus the also offers further opportunities for competitively priced benchmark total return of 17.8%, an outperformance of gearing and will be brought into the mix when appropriate."
The share price total return was 25.8%.
Currencies More detail and commentary on performance is set out in Sterling strengthened against the Euro by around 7% from the Managers Report.
March 2012 to its peak in July, which was not what we wanted through the main part of our Euro dividend season.
Revenue Results It then went on to weaken by almost 11% before settling The stated revenue earnings figure for the year of 6.74p is close to the opening position at the end of March 2013. ahead of guidance set out in the interim report.
However, because of the way this figure is calculated, using the Scandinavian currencies followed a similar pattern, weighted average number of shares in issue throughout the although their weakness in early March this year coincided year, and due to the fact that earnings from the portfolio more helpfully with their local dividend season.
are skewed towards the beginning of the year, this figure is lower than the amount available for the dividend.
A more As in previous years the fund has not hedged the income detailed explanation is provided in the Managers Report.
account but has continued to hedge the capital currency exposure in line with the benchmark.
Dividend The Board is proposing a final dividend of 4.35p which Discount and Share Repurchases compares with the prior year final dividend of 4.20p.
The share price discount to net asset value capital only When taken with the interim dividend already paid of started the period at 14.3% and fluctuated between 2.65p, this is a full year dividend of 7.00p, an increase of 12.0% and 15.0% for most of the period.
It widened on 6.1% over the 6.60p paid last year.
the back of arbitrage trades following the announcement 8 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Chairmans Statement continued of the corporate action at the end of September reaching Our aim is to narrow the discount between the share price a low of 16.4% at the end of November but ended the and the Net Asset Value.
This is a long term project but the period at just under 12.0%.
The Board continues to pay changes being introduced through the Retail Distribution close attention to the discount to net asset value.
Review are a good platform to help us to level the playing field with open ended funds who have previously paid Following the remerger of the two share classes in undisclosed commissions to Independent Financial December I am pleased to report an increase in the Advisors which of course we do not.
liquidity of the Ordinary shares.
Your Board is conscious that cost control is important to A number of initiatives are being followed to improve shareholders and we have worked with F&C to continue shareholder communication and make the shares as our downward pressure on costs and the Management accessible as possible to a wide range of investors.
This years reduction will more than fund the investment in communications and we are pleased to We have increased the number of ways of investing in our have joined F&Cs share plan, the largest in the sector.
"TR Property Investment Trust plc is now offered The coming year will see us take steps towards the as part of the F&C savings plans, and our Registrars, implementation of the Alternative Investment Fund Computershare, offer dealing options for certificated Managers Directive ""A. I. F. M. D. ""."
This bureaucratic holders and a DRIP option for reinvestment of dividends measure will add cost, consume time better spent for holders on the main register.
Further details can be on commercial matters and add no value to the real found on pages 88 to 92. governance of your investments.
As we are all in this together it will not detract in any way from the relative Outlook attraction of our Company to investors.
In terms of global At the beginning of this statement I emphasised the competitiveness it is another small indication that the importance of taking a long term view of property EU has its head in the sand.
Be assured that your Board investment in order to be successful.
In the year under is taking every possible measure to retain flexibility of review the policy of overweight holdings in high quality operation as it is implemented and to minimise any assets, including introductions to new, well researched impact on the fund management team.
opportunities, has paid off well in both revenue and capital growth.
Looking forward, these fundamentals will continue.
Finally I would like to wish the Trust, its Managers and the Board every success for the future.
The fund managers The Managers Report gives a detailed view of prospects have modernised and expanded their capability in recent for earnings and areas of value adding opportunities.
Here years and I am sure they will continue to be competitive on I would comment that the outlook is rather better than your behalf.
At the same time the Boards composition has at this time last year.
Naturally all the usual caveats apply, changed to reflect a new generation and professional focus.
but as I write this market sentiment is broadly positive and In particular I wish Caroline every success for the future as there are more slightly better economic indicators than for she takes over the Chair of a company which has given me many months e. g. UK growth, whilst negatives are edging enormous satisfaction to be part of for the past 16 years.
towards neutral e. g. Eurozone laggards getting a grip.
Peter Salsbury As for TR Property, I do believe that there are opportunities Chairman looking forward to add further value.
As already mentioned, 3 June 2013 communication of the benefits of our Trust has grown in importance.
We are taking steps to improve the visibility of the Trust to potential investors and to help them appreciate that the Trust is a low cost and very liquid way of holding property in their portfolio.
