Strategic Report My first year as Chairman of the Board has seen considerable CHAIRMANS STATEMENT activity on the governance front.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the Company is run in an open and transparent This is my first report to shareholders, having been fashion and a number of new corporate governance appointed Chairman on 6 March 2013 when Keith Hamill initiatives were completed successfully in 2013. retired.
For the first time since the Companys listing in 2006, we Market conditions were challenging throughout 2013 as the have undertaken an external audit tender exercise which overall level of activity in the financial markets remained was accompanied by a tender for the internal audit contract.
subdued, particularly during the second half of the year.
As a result of these tender exercises, Deloitte has been The business has also faced higher costs relating to the re-appointed external auditor and KPMG will replace regulatory readiness project.
The impact of these factors on  as internal auditor in July 2014. the underlying operating margin, however, has been largely We have also undertaken a formal evaluation of the Boards offset by the actions that have been taken to reduce costs effectiveness with the assistance of Lygon Group.
The results and to maintain flexibility in the cost base, to strengthen of this exercise are summarised in the Corporate Governance the broking business in all three regions, and to continue Report.
The Nominations Committee reviewed the to develop the Information Sales and Risk Management appropriateness of each of the Directors putting themselves Services businesses.
forward for election or re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Revenue in 2013 was 6% lower than reported for 2012.
I am pleased to report that I am satisfied that the Board, Underlying operating profit in 2013 was 115.4m, 8% lower its Committees and each of the Directors are operating than reported for 2012.
Underlying basic earnings per share effectively.
I therefore recommend that each of the Directors were 9% lower than last year at 36.0p.
should be elected or re-elected as appropriate at the 2014 AGM.
The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend of 11.25p per share, making the total dividend for the year During 2013, there has been an increase in the engagement 16.85p per share, unchanged from that paid for 2012. with our shareholders.
I have made contact with all our The final dividend will be payable on 15 May 2014 to largest shareholders, constituting around two thirds of shareholders on the register at close of business on our register.
The great majority of these have responded 25 April 2014. to this and I have been able to have useful and constructive conversations and meetings with all such shareholders.
New reporting requirements Stephen Pull, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, In 2013 the UK Government introduced new reporting led a shareholder consultation on proposed changes to requirements for listed companies which have affected the Executive Directors remuneration structure, further the content and layout of the 2013 Annual Report.
These details of which are set out in the Report on Directors regulations introduced the requirement for a new Strategic Remuneration.
We intend to continue this increased Report, of which this statement forms a part, and changes engagement with shareholders in the coming year to to the Report on Directors Remuneration.
The Report on ensure that the Board stays abreast of the development Directors Remuneration is now divided into three sections: of shareholder views on governance and other key issues.
the Remuneration Committee Chairmans Statement, the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Outlook Directors Remuneration.
The Directors Remuneration Policy The overall level of activity in the financial markets that is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the forthcoming we serve has been subdued for the last eighteen months AGM, while the other two sections continue to be subject reflecting persistently low volatility, the more onerous to an advisory shareholder vote.
regulatory environment for our customers and the considerable uncertainty over the impact of new regulations Governance covering the OTC derivatives markets, particularly in the The Board has seen a number of changes in the last year.
Keith Hamill and David Clark, who have both served as Revenue in the first two months of this year is 12% lower at Directors since the Companys listing in 2006, retired and constant exchange rates compared with the relatively strong we thank them for the many years of service and valuable equivalent period last year.
Market conditions worsened contribution they have made to the Board during that time.
over the course of 2013 and it would be prudent to expect I am pleased to welcome to the Board David Shalders, that market conditions will continue to be challenging.
who was appointed as an independent Non-executive The actions we have taken to reduce fixed costs and to Director of the Company on 27 February 2014.
Tullett maintain flexibility in the cost base will continue to yield Prebon continues to experience rapid change in its benefits in 2014, although this is likely to be at least partly regulatory environment and to make material investments offset by the expected increase in the run rate of costs in the development, launch and continuing running costs related to the regulatory readiness project.
of new electronic platforms and associated technology infrastructure.
Davids background in these and other areas of our business will be of great value to the Board.
2 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
