CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 6 Chairmans statement During 2013, the fourth full year of production at Sukari, your Company built further on its track record delivering against targets whilst maintaining a strong control over its cost base.
Dear shareholders During 2013, the fourth full year of production at Sukari, your Company built further on its track record delivering against targets, whilst maintaining a strong control over its cost base.
Sukari delivered a record 356,943 ounces of gold at a cash cost of production of US$663 per ounce, which was ahead of guidance of 320,000 ounces at US$700 per ounce set out in the first quarter of the year.
The operating environment in Egypt improved markedly in comparison with a challenging 2012.
I once again take this opportunity to extend my congratulations to the team in Egypt for their professionalism, hard work and consistent focus on improving productivity, which has resulted in another year of exceptional performance for the operation.
Shareholders should not underestimate these efforts, which allow Centamin to stand out in a sector which generally suffers a reputation of missed forecasts and broken promises.
Josef ElRaghy Sukaris safety performance was also a significant improvement on the previous Chairman and CEO year with a lost time injury frequency rate of 0.36 0.69 in 2012 per 200,000 man hours achieved during the period.
It was again pleasing to note that no significant environmental incidents have taken place.
Construction of the Stage 4 expansion to double the processing plants nameplate capacity to 10 million tonnes per annum was complete by the end of 2013, and commissioning is currently under way.
This major twoandahalf year expansion project has been completed with minimal cost and timing overruns.
This would represent a major achievement in itself, but is all the more notable given the various external challenges that were faced, particularly during the early stages of construction.
The capital cost estimate of the Stage 4 expansion is US$331.2 million including contingency, with expenditure at the end of 2013 of US$327.8 million.
Commissioning and optimisation of the expanded plant is now a key deliverable as Sukari looks towards a further year of growth in 2014, with our annual production guidance set at 420,000 ounces at a cash cost of US$700 per ounce.
Thereafter, we continue to forecast a sustainable output of 450,000 500,000 ounces per annum from 2015 onwards, with scope to exceed the upper limit once the new plant is fully optimised and operating at abovenameplate levels of productivity, as demonstrated by the existing plant during 2013.
Sukari is a longlife asset which is supported by a globally significant resource and reserve base.
An updated resource and reserve statement was announced at the end of the year, with total resources containing 15.4 million ounces 1 Moz and reserves containing 8.2Moz of gold.
With the underground mine continuing to rampup in productivity and being a key driver of our substantial and low cost production profile, it was of particular encouragement to see the underground reserve increase in tonnage by 120% over the previous 2011 estimate, despite mining depletion during that period.
With grades in the Proven category of 11.4g t gold, and with continued good results from ongoing drilling into the target highgrade depth extensions of the ore body, we remain confident of further significant underground reserve expansion and longevity of the operation.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 7 Sukari Open Pit holding bay for the dump trucks As previously indicated to shareholders, the Company the strength of our appeal case.
We continue to benefit significantly progressed its medium and longterm growth from the full support of the Ministry of Petroleum and the strategy during 2013.
In September, Centamin entered Egyptian Mineral Resource Authority EMRA, both in into a joint venture with AIMlisted Alecto Minerals plc over the appeal and at the operational level, to whom I would their exploration projects in Ethiopia, thus expanding our like to extend our thanks for their continued cooperation presence in this important region of focus for the Company.
in helping us to deliver a world class mining operation.
The announcement in December of a recommended We look forward to continuing to share the benefits of this substantial investment as the operation emerges from its allshare takeover offer of ASXlisted Ampella Mining Ltd, initial period of construction and thus sets the stage for a valuing the company at A$40.9 million, saw the Company new era of gold mining in Egypt.
expand its interests into West Africa.
This offer represented a compelling opportunity to acquire an undervalued suite This year, the Chairman of the Corporate Governance of explorationstage licences in highly prospective regions Committee has presented the Corporate Governance of Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
As Chairman of the Board I agree and endorse both controlling interest in Ampella and is looking forward to this report and the values of good governance reflected in implementing a systematic exploration programme in 2014, it.
In my view Board effectiveness has been achieved, in no aimed at developing the outstanding potential for further small part, by ensuring that communication channels are significant growth of the existing 3.25Moz resource base open between all Board members and regular information is comprising 1.92Moz Indicated and 1.33Moz Inferred.
presented to the Board allowing all members to contribute Our financial position remains strong with approximately knowledgeably at Board meetings and in discussions US$142.5 million held in cash, bullion on hand, gold between the executives and non executive directors.
sales receivables and availableforsale financial assets.
I would like to close by thanking all those at Sukari, The Company also continues to be debt free with no in Alexandria, Ethiopia, Jersey and Perth for their efforts hedging arrangements.
Revenues of US$503.8 million and in 2013 as Centamin continued on its journey to becoming EBITDA of US$234.2 million in 2013 including exceptional an established gold producer.
items continue to demonstrate that Sukari remains a highly cash generative operation.
With the major Stage 4 capital Your Company remains well positioned to deliver programme now behind us, and therefore the staged outstanding shareholder returns in the coming years.
I look expansionary investment phase nearing completion, forward to updating you further over the course of 2014, shareholders can now look forward to a longlife operation and would welcome you to join us at our AGM which this which will now start to generate substantial free cash flow.
year will be held in Jersey on 16 May 2014.
Accordingly, during the course of 2014 Centamin will make clear its intentions with regard to a policy for returning capital to its shareholders.
Our appeal against the 30 October 2012 ruling by the Josef ElRaghy Egyptian Administrative Court, on the validity of the Chairman exploitation lease, remains ongoing.
We believe the action is misconceived as we have clear evidence that there is a 21 March 2014 valid exploitation lease in existence.
Important progress was made in March 2013 when the Supreme Administrative Court approved our application to suspend enforcement of the October 2012 ruling until the conclusion of the appeal process.
Furthermore, the statement by the court at this hearing that the original ruling was likely to be cancelled upon the issuance of a judgment on the merits of the case supports our full confidence in our legal title and 1 Includes 1.9Moz of inferred resources.
CENT CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPOR AMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 T 2013 8 8 Strategic report Our growth strategy seeks to optimise exposure through the mining value chain: exploration, development and operations.
New mining fleet arrived and assembled onsite Sukari Hill in the background
