Introduction Centrica has an important role to play in the resolution of some of the most pressing issues Chairmans for the industry energy security, climate Statement change and affordability.
Centrica recognises the need to reaffirm I regard the opportunity to chair and demonstrate its commitments to treating Centrica as a great privilege.
It is customers well, working constructively with policy makers and conducting its business a company with a strong heritage in the most transparent manner possible.
and deep relevance to the UK, I have found such a response to be instinctive within the Company and very serving over 11million UK households, much the focus of attention as evidenced by the pace at which savings from recent employing over 30,000 people in UK Government policy changes were the UK and contributing around passed on tocustomers.
1 billion of tax across the Group This alone is unlikely, however, to be sufficient to completely turn the tide.
I have been using my early independence With approximately 700,000 individual to explore some of the issues to find a way shareholders and numerous pension fund to accelerate the restoration of trust investors, Centrica also forms an important andcollaboration.
part of the savings and pension plans of First, I have been looking into the various millions of people across the country.
In criticisms that have been directed towards other words, Centrica is essential to the the industry and am conducting my own quality of life and competitiveness of the UK.
independent fact-finding review of some However, beyond the statistics, Centrica also of the issues that are most important to has an important role to play in the resolution ourcustomers and seeing for myself whether of some of the most pressing issues for the we are truly living by the Business Principles industry energy security, climate change we espouse.
It has the know-how, Secondly, I have been meeting our balance sheet and assets to play a leading customers to discuss what they need from role in helping to deliver a solution to these their energy supplier, the trade-offs involved issues.
Yet the Company is sometimes in fulfilling these needs and what it will take to regarded as part of the problem rather than re-establish a sense of mutual partnership.
Levels of trust between energy My early impression is that, while there are companies and wider society have come issues around customer trust and service under severe pressure.
I therefore believe levels, the reputation of British Gas in the that it will be essential to establish common eyes of our customers is vastly better than ground between the participants in the one would be led to believe from the media debate, to enable us to meet the energy and political commentary, particularly when challenges which the country faces.
it comes to our service engineers helping customers in their homes.
04 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information At the same time, the growth and None of this can be achieved without the performance of the wider Centrica Group outstanding commitment of our employees should not be forgotten.
While our UK which is deeply appreciated.
downstream businesses still contribute the Since 2004, the Group has been led by largest proportion of the Groups post-tax SirRoger Carr who stepped down as earnings, we have substantially increased Chairman at the end of 2013 and I am joined the scale of our North American operations by all of the Board in thanking him for his and now serve over six million residential and outstanding leadership, professionalism and business customers.
We have also delivered integrity throughout his time at Centrica.
His good strategic progress upstream, despite support and clarity of vision during his term some setbacks in the UK North Sea, adding of office is acknowledged and I know that reserves organically and through acquisition.
I am joined by many in wishing Sir Roger We continue to play a critical role in bringing every success in his new appointment.
supplies of gas to the UK as North Sea resources decline.
Last year we signed RICk HAytHORntHwAItE new deals with both Qatari and US exporters, Chairman taking our supply commitments to over 20 February 2014 60billion.
In summary, our interests and those of customers are inextricably linked.
Our financial future and corporate capability depend on forward momentum, both in and outside the UK.
In an increasingly international gas market, Centrica has a clear strategic direction and strong management, positioning itself for long-term, sustainable growth.
Our Business Principles Our Group-wide Business Principles create a framework Centrica recognises to help us make decisions in line with a consistent the need to reaffirm set of operating behaviours based on trust, integrity and demonstrate its andopenness.
Demonstrating integrity in corporate conduct treating customers well.
Enhancing customer experiences and business partnerships 5. valuing our people 6.
Focusing on health, safety and security 7.
Investing in communities Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 05 Strategic Report Contents An overview of changes in our operating environment during 2013.
OPERAtInG Page 07 EnvIROnMEnt An OvERvIEw OF Innovate OUR StRAtEGy Integrate Page 08 Increase Centrica is an integrated energy company made up of a number OUR BUSInESS MODEl Page 10 of strong businesses, participating across the energy chain.
Our Chief Executive discusses Centricas performance during the REvIEw OF tHE yEAR Page 12 year and how our business is positioned for the future.
We measure and track key performance indicators that we believe are MEASURInG OUR important to our longer-term success.
Page 16 PERFORMAnCE OPERAtInG REvIEw International Downstream Page 18 International Upstream Page 26 Centrica Storage Page 32 GROUP FInAnCIAl A discussion of the Groups financial performance and our obligations.
Page 34 REvIEw Page 39 OUR RESPOnSIBIlItIES The impact our business activities have on society and the environment.
com cr Our focus on risk management and discussion of our principal risks.
RISk MAnAGEMEnt Page 42 06 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
