02 Chairmans statement Defence markets have remained challenging, and operational issues in certain businesses further impacted the Group's financial performance.
In addition, the US Government shutdown in the last month of the financial year meant that government inspectors were not present in a number of the Group's facilities, thus delaying product acceptance and shipment in October 2013.
Performance Recovery Programme In January 2013, the new management team established a Performance Recovery Programme focused on delivering improvements in operational performance and providing increased resilience to challenging markets.
This led to a reorganisation of the Group to ensure swift and effective response to attractive market opportunities.
The cost of this reorganisation and restructuring will be approximately 15.0 million, which has predominantly arisen in the year ended 31 October 2013, and will deliver annual savings of approximately 10.0 million from 2014.
At the end of a year of The Performance Recovery Programme had five initial areas significant change, Chemring is of focus: now a more resilient business, Simplify the organisational structure.
Integrate compatible business units and deliver untapped synergies.
Much has been achieved by the Implement a systematic programme of operational performance improvement.
new management team during Refocus business development activity.
the year, with the positive Improve cash and cost management.
impact of the Performance Chemrings previous organisational structure included significant divisional overhead, and this has been eliminated.
Recovery Programme beginning Head office and divisional functions have been integrated into to bear fruit.
In addition, the a single, tighter central management structure, resulting in a 46% reduction in head office and divisional headcount.
The Strategic Planning Process has operating businesses have also been reorganised to provide a more effective reporting structure consisting of four strategic provided a clear view of the product segments: Countermeasures, Sensors & Electronics, Pyrotechnics & Munitions, and Energetic SubSystems.
market, competitive dynamics Operational efficiency is improving, but it will take time to and prospects for each of the resolve all of the Group's operational issues.
Clearer reporting lines and more rapid communication with the Groups senior businesses, as well as identifying management are delivering improved focus, accountability the core markets in which the and responsiveness.
Crucially, customers are also benefiting from this streamlined organisation through a more Group will focus investment.
coordinated approach to the Group's markets, product portfolio, quality and technology development.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 03 Order intake for the Group was 534.5 million, 14.5% below Strategic Planning Process revenue.
As a result, the closing order book was The Group has undertaken a comprehensive Strategic 675.5 million 2012: 760.9 million, a reduction of 11.2%.
Planning Process to determine its business strategy.
This has The closing order book is lower than the value of 702 million provided a clear view for each of Chemrings business units disclosed in the Group's trading update published on of their current market environment, competitive dynamics 25 November 2013, due to exchange rate fluctuations and future prospects.
It has confirmed strong marketleading impacting the valuation of certain orders.
positions and the strength of the Group's technology in a number of areas, whilst highlighting new defence and Board of directors adjacent nondefence opportunities.
It has also identified a A number of changes were made to the Board of directors number of further operational initiatives which will enable the during the year.
Mark Papworth joined as Chief Executive Group to manage the impact of current market challenges.
on 5 November 2012, followed by Steve Bowers as Finance As a result of this process, a number of business units have Director on 7 January 2013. been identified as not being part of Chemring's longerterm Nigel Young, who was Interim Chief Financial Officer between strategy.
As a consequence, several divestment processes August 2012 and January 2013, became a nonexecutive are now under way, the outcome of which should lead to a director and Chairman of the Audit Committee on reduction in the Group's debt.
Andy Hamment, who was previously Group Marketing Director of Ultra Electronics plc, joined the Board The first of these divestments was in December 2013, with as a nonexecutive director on 1 July 2013.
Two a conditional agreement for the sale of Chemring Energetic nonexecutive directors retired from the Board during the Devices' buildtoprint business located in Clear Lake, South year: Peter Norriss, who had been a director since May 2004, Dakota to AMTEC Corporation for $10.0 million 6.1 million, stepped down at the Annual General Meeting in March 2013, payable in cash.
Completion of the sale, which is conditional and Roger Freeman, who had been a director since upon regulatory approvals and subject to a working capital May 2006, retired from the Board on 31 December 2013. adjustment, is expected within the next few weeks.
The Board is most grateful to both for their valuable Trading contributions over many years.
Chemrings improving operational performance has been These changes mean that Chemring has created a adversely affected by the deteriorating external trading substantially new Board in the last two years.
This fresh environment, largely as a result of budgetary pressures on perspective will be important in meeting the challenges and global defence spending, which has manifested in delays in opportunities facing the Group.
order placement in all our markets.
Dividends In particular, the US has seen a significant deterioration The Board is recommending a final dividend for the year of in defence spending due to the effects of sequestration, 3.8p 2012: 4.2p.
With the interim dividend of 3.4p continuing resolution and budget reductions.
This was 2012: 5.3p, paid in August 2013, this results in a total heightened by the shutdown of the US Government in dividend in respect of 2013 of 7.2p 2012: 9.5p.
This early October 2013, a key month in the Group's delivery total dividend is in line with the Groups stated policy of schedule.
The shutdown resulted in the temporary closure maintaining a dividend that is covered three times by of the Defense Contract Management Agency DCMA, the underlying earnings.
government agency with responsibility for inspecting and approving products for delivery to the US Department of Defense.
This closure impacted deliveries to customers in the last weeks of the financial year but these delays are expected to be resolved in the first quarter of the current financial year.
Consequently, Group revenue for 2013 was 624.9 million, a decrease of 15.6%, generating an underlying operating profit of 72.1 million 2012: 88.3 million.
Underlying profit before tax reduced by 25.2% to 52.4 million, resulting in underlying earnings per share of 21.6p 2012: 28.5p.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 04 Chairmans statement Outlook Real progress has been made in transforming Chemring and the Performance Recovery Programme is eliminating a number of the issues that have dragged down recent performance.
The benefits of the programme will come through in 2014 and the Group is better placed as a result.
While sequestration of the US defence budget has been avoided, the difficult market conditions that Chemring experienced in 2013 are expected to continue throughout 2014 and represent the most significant challenge that the Group currently faces.
Growth in emerging markets is expected to be offset by defence spending constraints in the US, UK and Europe, and a recovery in the Group's traditional NATO markets is not expected in the medium term.
The current strength of sterling against the US dollar, if sustained, will also impact earnings given the significance of the Group's US operations.
Chemring will continue to drive improvements in operational performance, and pursue the growth opportunities that exist, particularly within nonNATO markets where defence spending is expected to increase.
It will also reshape and strengthen its portfolio of businesses through the disposal of noncore activities and technology investment in those businesses that can achieve sustainable growth and margin improvement.
Meanwhile, the Board's expectations for the current financial year remain unchanged.
Peter Hickson Chairman 23 January 2014 Underlying measures referred to in these financial statements are stated before costs relating to acquisitions and disposals, business restructuring and incident costs, profit on disposal of businesses, items deemed to be of an exceptional nature, impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles, impairment of assets held for sale, amortisation of acquired intangibles and gains losses on the movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
A reconciliation of underlying and total operating profit is set out in note 5 of the group financial statements.
Pictured right: RESOLVE integrated tactical electronic warfare system.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 05 www.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 MOvING INTO NEw TERRITORIES CASe Study HUSky MOUNTED DETECTION SySTEM HMDS the Husky Mounted detection System there were over 250 HMdSs in use in HMdS is a combat proven, Afghanistan, and in the uS the system highperformance ground penetrating is now in the process of transitioning radar GPR system, which operates on to become a baseline item in the uS manned and unmanned blastresistant department of defense budget.
In vehicles that provide rapid ability to October 2013, Chemring Sensors detect landmines and other explosive & electronic Systems was awarded hazards, such as improvised explosive a $10.6 million contract by the uS devices Ieds, on main supply routes Army for the procurement of six and open areas.
Originally funded HMdS test units, and a test support to satisfy an urgent operational package.
these systems will be used requirement in Iraq and Afghanistan, for advanced testing in preparation for the HMdS is now in use with the uS, a longterm procurement programme.
Canadian, Australian and Spanish this secures the position of the HMdS militaries.
the systems success has as an enduring capability for the uS resulted in it being recognised as a military over the next ten to fifteen critical requirement in the protection years.
of troops, and there is significant interest in the system from other NAtO countries.
22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Overview Chemrings business model 08 Strategy 10 Global growth opportunities 12 Market review 14 Performance review Business highlights 16 Segmental review 18 Countermeasures 18 Sensors & Electronics 20 Pyrotechnics & Munitions 22 Energetic SubSystems 24 CEO questions and answers 26 Financial review 28 Key performance indicators 33 Principal risks and uncertainties 36 Corporate responsibility review 41 Pictured left: Husky HMDS checks a road for mines and IEDs in Afghanistan.
See more information online www.
