Revenue and earnings Growth We have committed to increasing the dividend payout to 80% of adjusted earnings per share commencing with the next interim dividend.
Chairmans Statement Big Yellow Group PLC Big Yellow, the Group or the Company, The Group made a statutory profit before tax for the year of the UKs brand leader in self storage, is pleased to announce results 31.9 million, compared to a loss of 35.6 million last year.
The prior for the fourth quarter and the year ended 31 March 2013. year loss reflected the decrease in the valuation of the Groups open stores principally caused by the valuers assessment of the impact We achieved a solid level of revenue growth, despite the imposition of the imposition of VAT on self storage from 1 October 2012.
The of VAT, and have also delivered against our principal financial aims valuation of the investment property portfolio in the year is broadly of growing cash flow, earnings and dividend.
This is testament to in line with the prior year.
our successful operating model with a strong brand, market-leading The Group has reduced its gearing further this year and now has net digital platform and our focus on large metropolitan areas, bank debt of 230.5 million at 31 March 2013 2012: 273.9 million.
particularly in London and the South East.
This represents approximately 30% 2012: 35% of the Groups gross We made a strong start to the year with significant occupancy property assets totalling 767.5 million 2012: 778.3 million and growth in the first half our seasonally strongest period, as we 39% 2012: 49% of the adjusted net assets of 594.5 million 2012: additionally benefited from the increased business and consumer 559.0 million.
confidence in the lead-up to the Olympics.
The Groups income cover for the year expressed as the ratio of The seasonally weaker quarter to December was further impacted by Groups adjusted EBITDA post administrative expenses to net interest a combination of a softening in the macroeconomy in the period after payable was 3.3 times 2012: 3.1 times.
the Olympics, and price increases to our domestic customers of 10% or 12.5% as a result of the imposition of VAT on our storage rents from Placing 1 October.
By the beginning of the fourth quarter, the environment For some time, the Company has set out a clear financial strategy had stabilised and we saw a return to growth in net occupancy.
to reduce debt and achieve pre-interest cash flow cover of at least The Big Yellow model has proved to be relatively resilient and we four times the annual interest cost.
The placing of 10 million shares have now successfully embedded VAT into our business.
As we only in January at 3.70, raising 35.8 million net of expenses, partially passed VAT onto our domestic customers there was an has allowed us to accelerate this plan.
We have committed to anticipated impact in the second half on our net achieved rents.
increasing the dividend payout to 80% of adjusted earnings per We are now focused on rebuilding the yield and growing occupancy share commencing with the next interim dividend.
In addition, it has in the year ahead.
given us flexibility to expand our portfolio of stores, and we intend to open our prominent Gypsy Corner site on the A40 in West London in Financial results April 2014.
Revenue for the year was 69.7 million 2012: 65.7 million, an increase of 6%: store revenue increased by 6% to 68.3 million Refinancing 2012: 64.3 million.
EBITDA for the 54 wholly owned stores We are pleased to have successfully concluded the refinancing of the increased by 3.4 million 8% to 44.1 million.
The 53 wholly owned Groups debt facilities with a new 15 year 100 million facility with stores open at 1 April 2012 have grown in occupancy from 63.5% to Aviva and the four year 190 million refinancing to September 2016 65.6% at 31 March 2013. with our existing senior debt providers, Lloyds TSB, HSBC and Santander.
As part of this refinancing we cancelled 120 million of Store revenue for the fourth quarter decreased by 1% to 15.9 million interest rate derivatives at a cost of 10.5 million 9.2 million of from 16.1 million for the same quarter last year.
Store revenue this cost was in the first half of the year, with the balance incurred in in the second half of the year was 32.8 million, up 1% from October.
Since the placing we have repaid 43 million of debt, and 32.4 million for the second half of the year ended 31 March 2012. cancelled 35 million of our bank facilities, saving 0.3 million per Cash inflows from operating activities after finance costs annum in non-utilisation fees.
Our weighted average cost of debt for increased by 2.8 million 10% to 30.2 million for the year the second half of the year increased from 3.8% to approximately 2012: 27.4 million.
In October 2012 the expiry of the 60 million Big Yellow The Group made an adjusted profit before tax in the year of Limited Partnership bank facility was extended to September 2016.
This translated into a 6% increase in adjusted earnings per share to 19.3p 2012: 18.2p.
16 Whilst there remain challenges, we allow ourselves for the first time in a few years, to enjoy a little more optimism.
Property Philip and I started work together in 1986 and have been in Our landmark store on the A4 in Chiswick, West London opened in partnership now for over 25 years.
It has been the best of April 2012.
We have a pipeline of four wholly owned development partnerships.
Without Philips property skills and tenacity, Big Yellow sites: all have planning consent, bar our site in Central Manchester.
could not have achieved a fraction of its successes.
The Board joins me in wishing him the best for the future.
The three development sites with planning consent at Enfield, We are delighted to welcome Georgina to the Board.
Georgina brings Guildford Central and Gypsy Corner, have an estimated cost to extensive and diverse experience from the worlds of traditional and complete of 14.3 million excluding VAT.
We have committed to the digital media, retail and leisure.
As Big Yellows fortunes increasingly construction of Gypsy Corner, which we anticipate opening in April lie with the internet, her experience will be of great value.
The remaining two sites with planning will be constructed on a phased basis.
Outlook During the year we sold our surplus one acre site adjacent to We believe that REITs should enjoy similar characteristics to our new flagship Chiswick store for 4.8 million.
We also sold our property as an investment medium, with the defensive qualities of surplus site at South Bow for 3.6 million, and received the further fixed income, and the upside benefits of equity.
Those intrinsic consideration of 7.4 million from the disposal of the Premier Inn features of property have been distorted in the recent past by hotel we developed at Richmond.
The proceeds were deployed to excessive debt, which by definition has over-accentuated the equity reduce the Groups debt.
These sales have largely completed our characteristics, the cause of much of the volatility in the direct and surplus asset disposals, with the Group owning 4.6 million of land indirect property market.
surplus to our requirements across two sites at 31 March 2013.
We It is clear to us that lower geared businesses, both operationally and aim to sell this remaining surplus land once we have maximised its financially, outperform over the longer term.
Accordingly, one of the value through planning.
key tasks for your management since 2007 has been to create a We continue to monitor site acquisition opportunities, principally capital structure reflective of those views.
Although we think that ideally Big Yellow would benefit from still lower Dividend proportionate levels of debt, we are satisfied that as a minimum our The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend of core ambition in this respect has been achieved, following the growth 6 pence per share, taking the total dividend declared for the year in cash flows, the two refinancings, and the equity raise.
to 11 pence per share 31 March 2012: 10 pence per share.
This improved capital structure allows us to fully focus on the upside The cash dividend payment is two times covered by our free potential in our business.
In that respect much has been achieved cash flow.
since 2007: 23 new purpose-built stores have been opened, significant operational improvements have been made, and the brand has Our people emerged as the unquestionable market leader.
Our strong performance during the year was driven by the continued This makes us confident that, on a medium to long term view, we will efforts and loyalty of the Big Yellow team, both at head office and in deliver substantially more of our full potential as we build occupancy the stores, and they remain pivotal to the achievement of our key and yield in our stores.
The pace at which this will be achieved will medium term objectives of driving occupancy, revenue, and cash depend in part on external factors, including the wider economy, flow growth.
housing transactions, new business formation and investment.
Whilst there remain challenges around these factors, we allow ourselves for Board the first time in a few years, to enjoy a little more optimism.
Philip Burks, a co-founder of the business in September 1998, will be retiring from his current role as a Non-Executive Director at the Groups next Annual General Meeting on 19 July 2013.
Georgina Harvey will be appointed to the Board as an independent NonExecutive Director from 1 July 2013.
