ovERvIEW: CHAIRmAnS STATEmEnT chaIrmans statement ouR BuSInESS IS In good SHAPE And WE ARE In A vERY STRong PoSITIon To TAKE AdvAnTAgE oF oPPoRTunITIES ovER THE ComIng YEAR.
Im delighted to have taken on the role of In my first few months as Chairman we have We have also been seeking to improve Chairman of British Land.
succeeding Chris undertaken a number of activities which are understanding for some time of how the gibson-smith is a hard act to follow and a good representation of British Land putting property sector contributes to the uK economy.
I would like to thank him for guiding British its strategy into action.
Recent research revealed that our development Land to such an excellent position, with activity will contribute 1.2 billion to the uK a first rate team, portfolio and strategy.
While impossible to mention everything economy and create 32,300 jobs between 2011 Id also like to thank Lord Turnbull who, achieved, in addition to significant ongoing and 2015.
Interestingly, while much of our following my appointment, agreed to leasing activity, which is a testament to our construction activity takes place in London, it become our senior Independent director.
core asset management skills, we have shown has an effect that is felt in communities across our ability to acquire highly attractive assets the uK.
In addition, the commercial space we Having been a nonExecutive director of the at sensible prices, dispose of mature assets create goes on to deliver benefits to businesses Company since 2008 I knew it to be in good for good returns and fund continued and local communities for years to come.
shape, but as Chairman I have been able to investment in our development programme.
spend more time with the management team managing our environmental, social and and visit more of our assets to look at our Weve also improved the diversity of our funding economic impacts is central to how we do activities in further detail.
I am reminded not and successfully completed a 400 million business, adding value to our assets and only of what an outstanding portfolio we have convertible bond last September and most delivering value to our shareholders.
From but how impressive our management is: all recently raised total gross proceeds of 2013, all members of our Executive Committee experts in their own roles with an unrivalled 493 million for the Company via our share will have a corporate responsibility target linked ability to add value.
placing in march this year.
As a result we to their variable remuneration.
For more detail are well placed to take advantage of the on how we manage our environment, social We have had a very active and successful year.
increasing number of attractive investment and economic impacts, see pages 38 and 39. our results reflect the quality of our assets opportunities we are now seeing.
and the skill of management in taking the Finally, I would like to thank all our stakeholders right actions to drive performance in what Acquisitions provide opportunities for growth for having made this year a successful one.
continues to be a difficult market.
our business and development such as Ealing Broadway our business is in good shape and we are is stronger going forward.
Shopping Centre in early February and the in a very strong position to take advantage purchase of our joint venture partners 50% of opportunities over the coming year.
I look despite a continued tough market we have stake at Surrey Quays Shopping Centre forward to working with the team to ensure reported good results which show the hard in march.
The sale of Ropemaker Place which British Lands continued strong performance.
work we have put into improving our portfolio raised 461 million in march was a good and maintaining and enhancing its attraction example of recycling capital and demonstrated to occupiers.
our track record of developing exceptional sustainable buildings, profitably let to quality underlying pretax profit of 274 million was occupiers, which are also attractive to investors.
up 1.9% and earnings were up 2% despite This sale was the third largest deal in the City significant recycling and investment in over the past four years and a great example John gildersleeve development.
The value of our portfolio now of recycling capital to invest in more accretive nonExecutive Chairman stands at 10.5 billion and nAv is up to opportunities such as our development 596 pence per share giving a total accounting programme.
Weve significantly outperformed the market benchmark.
Few companies could, or would, have successfully taken on a 1.2 billion office The Board is recommending a fourth quarter development programme but this year we are dividend of 6.6 pence per share, bringing the reaping the benefit of delivering five buildings total dividend for the year to 26.4 pence per to the London market at a time of constrained share.
For 2013 14 pending further investment supply.
our programme continues to be very of the placing proceeds, the dividend will not profitable with total expected profit now over be less than 6.6 pence per quarter.
420 million with 126 million to come.
All these activities directly satisfy our strategic aims to grow income over time, grow capital value and exploit market opportunities and take advantage of our access to finance and scale of operations.
6 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review OVERVIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon ovERvIEW: CHAIRmAnS STATEmEnT We have shown our ability to acquire highly attractive assets at sensible prices, dispose of mature assets for good returns and fund continued investment in our development programme.
Weve also improved the diversity of our funding and successfully completed a convertible bond and share placing.
JoHn gILdeRsLeeve non-executive Chairman See Chief Executives statement P811 See Portfolio review 274m 1.9% 596p 0.2% P4859 See Financial review underlying profit before tax ePRA net asset value per share P6268 See Full year results 2013 video www.
com investors  results 2013 3 0.3p 2.0% 2 6.4p 1.1% underlying ePs dividend per share directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7
