Chairmans statement we raised 138 million through a share placing in November Great Portland Estates has hadanother to fund further acquisitions.
More than 80% of these placing year of strong performance, generating proceeds have already been committed, bringing our total acquisitions for the year to 271 million, all in attractive locations, property and shareholder returns well with angles to exploit and at entry prices below replacement cost.
Our focused We have also continued to recycle capital, crystallising gains on mature properties through sales of 184 million at an average business model concentrating exclusively surplus to book value of 4%.
on high quality central London property, The significant development programme that we commenced two combined with effective capital management and a half years ago has now delivered 299,300 sq ft of high quality space across five completed projects and an aggregate and the disciplined execution of our surplus for shareholders of 55% over total costs.
The two strategic priorities, have again delivered projects completed this year at 160 Great Portland Street and 33 Margaret Street, both fully pre-let prior to completion, healthy valuation surpluses, particularly delivered a combined profit of 79.1 million and an average profit from our developments.
Our 112,300 sq ft scheme at 95 Wigmore Street is due for completion this July and 85% of the income EPRA NAV per share increased by 10.7% over the year and the has already been secured.
We have four further committed property portfolio delivered underlying capital growth of 8.0%.
schemes 579,400 sq ft, which are 58% pre-let, and a total The total shareholder return for the year was 40.7% and pipeline of around 2.5 million sq ft, including our enviable signicantly ahead of our FTSE 350 Real Estate benchmark development sites at Rathbone Place and Hanover Square.
Dividends of 8.6 pence per share for the year are up 2.4% on 2012.
Following record levels of leasing last year, our asset management team has again performed strongly, delivering Whilst we can expect further turbulence in the UK and Eurozone lettings and lease renewals of more than 13.4 million in annual economies, conditions across central Londons property markets, rent, with market lettings at an average of 6.6% above our particularly in the West End, remain favourable.
Tenant demand valuers ERV, or 8.7% if pre-lettings are excluded.
Our investment for new space is trending at the long-run average, with some portfolio void rate remains encouragingly low at only 2.3% and pockets of strong interest from the likes of the TMT sector.
we continue to see good tenant demand for our well-specified The supply of new space remains noticeably lower than trend space in excellent locations.
Over the next few years, absent a material economic set back, we expect this balance to move further in landlords favour, All of these successes have been delivered whilst maintaining supporting our expectations for rental growth.
In the investment a robust balance sheet and a low loan to value ratio at March market, London continues to attract a significant ow of 2013 of less than 33%.
Our debt remains amongst the lowest investment capital from around the world and its position as a cost in the sector and we have significant levels of liquidity, with truly global city was enhanced further by the events of this past cash and undrawn debt facilities in excess of 280 million and year, including the Olympic Games.
no debt maturities until summer 2015.
Despite the strength of the investment market, we have again To help support our ambitious growth plans, we have selectively been successful in unlocking accretive acquisitions, often through recruited to add to our experienced and talented team and we off-market deals.
Our purchases in the first half of the year were pleased to welcome Elizabeth Holden to the Board as totalled 159 million, all in the West End, and having identied a Non-Executive Director in September 2012.
Phillip Rose a marked increase in interesting investment opportunities, retired from the Board in July 2012 after six years of valuable contribution.
I am also sad to report that Roger Payton, who acted as independent counsel to the Board in his roles as a Non-Executive Director from 1985 to 2000, and from 1990 as Deputy Chairman, passed away in February this year.
Looking ahead, I am confident that we are well positioned to continue to outperform and generate attractive total returns for shareholders.
Our high quality portfolio is rich with potential, our exceptional development programme will continue to drive capital and rental income growth and we have plentiful financial resources to deliver our existing growth plans and exploit new opportunities as we nd them.
Martin Scicluna Chairman 24 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013
