CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WELCOME TO THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR 2013, MY FIRST AS CHAIRMAN Hammerson is in the business of creating retail destinations.
Whether that is through development, extension, refurbishment or investment, our aim is to deliver venues to our customers, the retailers and restaurateurs, where their consumers want to shop, eat and socialise.
During the year we have progressed many of our major retail developments, to help ensure we create the retail destinations of the future.
We have implemented measures to ensure that we maximise the income from our existing portfolio, and put the Company in a strong financial position which gives us the flexibility to capture future opportunities.
4 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 Through our focus on the three areas of retail which are structurally well placed to benefit from technological and consumer trends, Hammerson is in a good position to capture future retail spending.
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY I was delighted to join Hammerson in January 2013 and Our connected reporting standards were once again to take over from John Nelson as Chairman in May.
The recognised with a Gold Award by EPRA in 2013.
Robust Company has a strong record for generating shareholder and well-established data management systems enable value based on its success in providing destinations for our us to report beyond compliance, including emissions customers and their consumers.
We owe John a debt of resulting from business travel and waste.
gratitude for his contribution over the last nine years, in We have again driven down our environmental impacts.
particular providing confident leadership and guidance to These achievements continue to generate year-on-year the business during his tenure as Chairman.
My objective cost savings for the business and for our occupiers, is to build on the Companys robust position to add further while mitigating the risks of carbon penalties and to shareholder value in the years ahead.
I have spent much of my first year getting to know the OUTLOOK business, primarily its people and its assets.
I want to thank all our people for delivering a good performance in the We have reported a good set of results in a year when we year, and helping me quickly to learn about the detail saw the beginning of economic and consumer recovery of the business.
In France the economic picture is less clear cut, although personal debt levels remain low, providing the RESULTS opportunity for a rebound in consumer spending when We have grown income from the portfolio in 2013, growth returns.
allowing us to deliver growth in adjusted earnings of over We are seeing improving demand from retailers, and 10% to 23.1 pence per share.
In conjunction with the Hammerson is creating the right product to meet their visibility we have on future earnings this gives us the future requirements, which provides the conditions for confidence to propose an increase in the full-year selected growth in rental values.
We have clear visibility dividend of almost 8% to 19.1 pence per share.
At the year on a number of major development projects which end the portfolio was worth 5.9 billion, resulting in a net will create the destination venues of the future, and asset value of 5.73 per share, a 6% increase on 2012. drive returns to our shareholders.
The first of these, Les Terrasses du Port in Marseille, will open in May this BOARD CHANGES year.
We remain on course to deliver strong growth in After ten years on the Board, it is planned that John Hirst earnings and dividends over the medium term.
will stand down as a Non-Executive Director and as Chairman of the Audit Committee at the AGM in April.
I would like to pay tribute to his contribution to Hammerson.
The business has benefited greatly from his wisdom and judgment around the board room table.
David Tyler Chairman We anticipate making a new Non-Executive Director appointment to the Board during the course of 2014.
Following the AGM, Jacques Espinasse will take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee from John.
In addition, at the same time Gwyn Burr will take over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from Anthony Watson, who plans to stand down from the Board in April 2015 after nine years with us.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We seek engagement with our shareholders.
During 2013 Hammerson undertook a programme of regular investor Introduction to the relations activities for both our institutional and private Governance Report shareholders.
These include investor roadshows following results, participation at investor conferences and page 60 attending ad hoc events where investors have the opportunity to meet and question Executive Directors and senior management.
Investors are encouraged to attend our AGM.
