08 Strategic report Overview Chairmans statement A year ago, following our announcement of the new brand and digital initiatives, I commented that we were at the beginning of a new phase in the Groups life, with our market leadership position in the sector providing many opportunities for growth, both organically and by acquisition.
Since then we have oriented the business around the principle that improved customer experience driven by motivated customer service attracting leading retailers is a powerful virtuous circle creating value for our shareholders, employees, communities and partners.
Improved customer Overview of 2013 activity experience driven by I am delighted that the cultural change throughout the Group has exceeded all expectations as have other changes associated with motivated customer ourbrand.
These include new signage, information desks and uniforms, service attracting leading World Class Service training, transfers of employment to Intu Retail Services, free Wi-Fi, the launch of an online business, the formation retailers is a powerful of intu Experiences for promotional activities and national marketing virtuous circle campaigns.
We have only just begun to realise the full potential of our national consumer brand.
Patrick Burgess Chairman But that was far from all we achieved in 2013.
We acquired a great centre, Midsummer Place, Milton Keynes, filling a gap in our national coverage.
We strengthened our financial position by raising equity and as capital markets improved we successfully refinanced, ahead of time and on a long-term basis, tranches of borrowings coming due between 2015 and 2017.
We appreciate the commitment of our shareholders and lenders.
Our asset management and development teams have been exceptionally busy, signing up new tenants, dealing with lease expiries, lodging planning applications and getting capital projects underway.
We have plans for every centre.
For example, we are on site transforming the malls at intu Eldon Square, remodelling the intu Lakeside food court, refurbishing intu Victoria Centre and reinvigorating what we now call Platinum Mall atintu Metrocentre.
Major projects not yet on site, such as the extension of intu Watford into the adjoining Charter Place, are rapidly moving forward.
Internationally, the highlight was the acquisition of a leading Spanish centre, Parque Principado, Oviedo, with a top quality partner, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 09 Strategic report Overview 2013 financial performance As discussed in the Chief Executives Review, the Groups financial performance for the year reflects some income reduction from tenant failures but robust valuations contributed to a healthy totalproperty return.
Looking forward Thinking ahead, how we combine retail, catering and leisure, how weadapt to the digital and smart phone era, how we take our brand forward, how we keep our centres fresh and appealing to customers, the next steps we take to grow our footprint in the UK regional shopping centre industry these are the themes which will define oursuccess in the years to come.
In that context we will remain focused on achieving strong returns over the medium term from each of our assets individually, including through our significant plans for development, and through their combined power as the only UK national branded network of prime centres.
Turning to external factors, it is encouraging to see some signs of recovery, with retailers continuing to address the impact of changing shopping habits on their own business models.
In providing customers with fresh experiences in some of the best destinations, we offer retailers compelling opportunities to thrive, driving the total returns from our assets over the long term.
Directors and staff I would like to record my thanks to the Board and all our staff for their commitment and dedication to intus values and vision in this year of fast-paced change.
Further, I would like to welcome the 1,300 employees of Intu Retail Services who joined the Group in July and October 2013.
Including expansion in other areas, we now have a team of over 2,000 people delivering our nationwide brand aspirations and values.
Our third annual employee survey showed the overwhelming majority of our expanded workforce is enthusiastically supporting the evolution of the Group.
On behalf of the Group I would like to thank Rob Rowley, who stepped down from the Board on 18 October 2013 after nine years, and Andrew Huntley and Adle Anderson, who have taken on the roles of Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee respectively.
co. uk 10 Strategic report Overview Donated to community Corporate responsibility organisations Intus award-winning CR programmes reinforce our long-term commitment to sustainable and community-minded business practice 1.95m 2012: 1.92m in the development and promotion of our shopping centres and I take great personal interest and satisfaction from my involvement in many Reduction in CO 2 of our projects.
emissions since 2011 In 2013 we achieved an impressive seven per cent reduction in carbon 18% emissions, a total of 18 per cent over two years and were awarded Gold in the annual Business in the Community CR Index.
Our employees engaged with 12 regional and national community partners to deliver practical help to disadvantaged young people in the communities served by Intu centres and, overall, our projects directly reached almost 2,500 people in 2013.
All our projects are subject to thorough evaluation and, as members of the London Benchmarking Group, we carry out an annual appraisal of all our community involvement efforts to ensure a close fit with the core goals ofour business.
Dividends The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 10.0 pence per share bringing the amount paid and payable in respect of 2013 to 15.0 pence, unchanged from 2012.
A scrip dividend alternative will be offered.
Details of the apportionment between the PID and non-PID elements per share will be confirmed in due course as the cash dividend is likely to be partly PID and partly non-PID and the scrip alternative wholly non-PID.
Responsible corporate behaviour and high quality service are key underlying values which inform our approach to every aspect of our affairs.
We take very seriously our responsibility as a good corporate citizen.
Our staff work hard to provide real benefit to our customers, partners and the wider communities in which we are based.
We know people like to deal with companies they can trust so, as well as intangible benefits, this approach reinforces our ability to provide realreturns to our shareholders in the long term.
Patrick Burgess Chairman 28 February 2014 Find out more: intugroup.
co. uk ar2013 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
