Chairmans Statement Overview It has been a year of significant activity for Cobham.
The Board There has been considerable has continued to give considerable focus to the Groups strategic objectives, which underpin the drive towards sustainable organic focus on the drive towards revenue and profit growth and increasing shareholder value.
sustainable organic revenue The Groups transformational EiD programme has enabled us to and profit growth streamline and simplify the business and is achieving significant efficiency savings by reducing costs through an extensive site integration and rationalisation programme.
In part, as we guided in 2012, we are using these savings to increase our investment in the business, as part of our focus on generating revenue growth.
EiD has continued to deliver improvements in operational performance and customer delivery through implementation of a standard operating framework across Cobhams principal locations.
With this first phase largely complete, the programme Full year dividend is moving into a continuous improvement phase that will not only sustain the progress already made but also drive further performance 9.68p 10% improvements.
Operational excellence is essential to enable the 2012: 8.80p Group to meet or, wherever possible, exceed customer expectations as the foundation for the delivery of sustainable organic revenue 13% CAGR over ten years and profit growth.
pence We have increased our investment in the business, linking this more 9.68 10 closely to market opportunities and the needs of our customers.
8.80 8.00 We have leading positions in attractive technology-led markets 8 and we aim to grow market share and revenue by investing in 6.00 new or improved products, which are often smaller, lighter and 6 5.45 less power consumptive than legacy products.
4 Furthermore, we also leverage our core suite of technologies into new commercial and geographic markets where suitable opportunities can 2 be identified.
This is aligned with our strategic objective of bringing more balance to the portfolio, so that the Group remains exposed to 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 faster growth markets.
The shift in the portfolio is also being achieved through carefully selected acquisitions, with two businesses with 6 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report highly complementary technology and know-how purchased in the John Patterson, Non-executive Director and the Chairman of the year, also reinforcing our market positions.
Remuneration Committee, will stand down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The Board is grateful None of this is possible without the right skills and capabilities in the for his significant contribution and support over the last nine years.
We have therefore increased our investment in our people Alison Wood will assume the role of Chair of the Remuneration in recent years, and we are linking our workforce requirements more Committee following his departure.
closely to the business planning process, reinvigorating our approach to training and development and strengthening key management Dividend capabilities within the business.
The Board is also mindful of the The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2013 of 7.04p 2012: ageing demographics within the aerospace and defence industry and 6.40p.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.64p 2012: 2.40p, so we are gradually increasing the number of university graduates in will result in a total dividend per share for 2013 of 9.68p 2012: 8.80p, the business, with a focus on science and engineering, and we are an increase of 10% on the prior year.
increasing the number of apprentices we recruit from schools.
The Board is proud of Cobhams long record of delivering a A strong and effective governance framework is essential in enabling progressive dividend to our shareholders.
The dividend has been the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
Good progress increased consecutively for the last 43 years, an enduring track record has been made in this area in 2013, in particular in enhancing the that only a handful of other companies can match.
This has been Groups programme management processes and introducing new made possible in part due to Cobhams cash generative business procedures aimed at improving allocation of PV expenditure to model, its differentiated positions in attractive technology markets targeted commercial opportunities.
and its prudent investment in acquisitions.
Following investment in the business, we will continue to prioritise increasing the dividend The Group strives for the highest standards possible in setting its payment in line with the long standing, progressive dividend policy.
ethics and compliance rules, and at all times to comply with all laws and regulations that apply in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Outlook It is therefore very disappointing for me to have to tell you about a Cobham has delivered full year results in line with its guidance, potential issue with sales practices in a small business unit supplying in what remains a challenging US defence security market.
It has products into Asia.
This issue was identified internally and elevated made good progress in the year against its strategic objectives, through Cobhams reporting lines, in accordance with our ethics including increased technology and other organic investments, policy and training.
After an initial internal investigation, we made and accelerated benefits from the operational excellence a voluntary disclosure to the US Department of Justice DoJ on programme.
It is now realigning its organisational structure 24 February 2014.
The investigation into this issue is ongoing and to enable the next stage of development.
Cobham continues to co-operate fully with the DoJ.
Trading conditions in the US defence security market are likely The Board to remain challenging in 2014 with potentially significant foreign We welcomed Simon Nicholls to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on currency headwinds and continued pressure on US defence security 1 May 2013.
Simon joined us from Senior plc, a FTSE250 international investment accounts.
However, the Group anticipates that its strong group manufacturing engineered products for aerospace, defence and and growing positions in attractive commercial markets and the industrial applications.
In his previous role as Group Finance Director generally positive prospects for its non-US defence security markets at Senior, Simon played a key role in the strategic evolution and growth will partially offset this, and Cobham continues to plan for Group of the business and his experience of financial leadership will make him organic revenue to decline by low-to-mid single digits in 2014. pivotal to the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Cobham will continue to take further actions as appropriate to substantially mitigate the impact of this organic decline.
Simon replaced Warren Tucker, who stood down after ten years service as Chief Financial Officer.
The Board would like to thank Cobham has innovative technology and know-how supported Warren for his vision and enormous contribution to the Group by market leading positions, which allows it to leverage across over this time.
As a result the Board continues to anticipate that it will deliver mid-single digit organic revenue growth from 2015.
We also welcomed to the Board on 1 May 2013 Jonathan Flint as a Non-executive Director.
Jonathan is Chief Executive of Oxford Cobham benefits from a cash generative business model and a Instruments plc, a leading provider of high technology tools and strong balance sheet, which enables it to maintain its long standing systems for research and industry, where he continues to deliver policy of a 10% progressive annual dividend increase.
strong growth and shareholder value in technology-led markets around the world.
Marcus Beresford, Non-executive and Senior Independent Director, stood down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
The Board is grateful to Marcus for his dedicated service over nine years and his invaluable contribution to Cobham John Devaney during that time.
With his departure, Michael Wareing has taken Chairman on the role of Senior Independent Director.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7
