DIRECTORS REPORT The Company had a good year.
Despite cHairmans dreary economic conditions, we achieved a strong set of results, with our Total Property messaGe Return of 7.8% outperforming the IPD Quarterly Universe by 4.4%.
The other key measures of performance, revenue profit and adjusted net asset value per share, were ahead of market expectations and we delivered a Total Shareholder Return of 19.1%.
We aim to deliver a progressive dividend and we are recommending a final dividend of 7.6p, taking the total for the year to 29.8p, up 2.8%.
Our results were driven by our own actions rather than a rising market.
We were the first property company to restart development following the downturn and this activity continues to bear fruit.
Our schemes are well matched to occupier demand, borne out by our high level of leasing activity.
Trinity Leeds shopping centre opened close to full occupancy and 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, at 56% pre-let or in solicitors hands is ahead of schedule.
Our regeneration of Victoria, SW1, has continued apace: 62 Buckingham Gate reached practical completion in May: construction is underway at The Zig Zag Building and Kings Gate: and we have committed to start construction of Nova Victoria formerly Victoria Circle in June Alison Carnwath assesses the following completion of the demolition phase.
At the start of the year Robert Noel took Companys progress during a very over as Chief Executive.
His thorough understanding of the business enabled him busy year.
She reviews our results, to hit the ground running.
He has set high the work of the Board and the steps expectations and has created strong forward momentum from which our business will taken to enhance remuneration benefit in the future.
I would like to thank all of our staff for their individual and collective policy.
She also shares her outlook contributions over the last 12 months.
During the year we consulted with shareholders on new proposals for executive remuneration.
Our objective was to simplify remuneration policy, further aligning management rewards to shareholder returns.
Our plans included proposals to address general shareholder concerns over discretionary and additional bonuses for management, with a shift towards longer term incentives and greater emphasis on Total Shareholder Return.
We explained our plans to around half of our share register, invited feedback and acted on what we heard.
The subsequent proposals received support from 98.3% of those who voted at the AGM.
This consultation exercise underlines the importance the Board places on understanding your views.
Investor road shows enabled us to talk with more than 40% of our shareholders by ownership, after each of the annual and half yearly results.
We also held an annual investor conference at which major shareholders met management below Executive Director level.
Our AGM is an opportunity for all shareholders to express 22 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE DIRECTORS REPORT their opinions.
It is noteworthy that the good returns and shareholder value.
In both total sHareHolDer returns taBle 1 character of our shareholder register has London and Retail our teams will work to Over one year to changed significantly since the Companys meet demand from successful businesses that 31 March conversion to REIT status in 2007.
Today require new and better space.
Development 2013 23% of our shareholders are based in North is likely to remain the best route to superior Land Securities 119.1 America a three-fold increase over five returns.
years and specialist real estate investors FTSE 100 115.4 In short, the Company has performed well.
now represent some 30% of our register.
FTSE 350 Real Estate Index 121.8 Everyone here is clear on the plan for the Our markets continue to evolve at some year ahead and we are getting on with it.
Historical TSR performance for a hypothetical investment of 100.
Your Board constantly challenges itself and management on the effects of changing customer demands.
The GeoGrapHical split oF tHe cHart 2 experience around the boardroom table companys sHareHolDers % means we are equipped to respond to new trends.
Over the last 12 months we have Alison Carnwath uK 45% invested time developing the skills of the Europe 21% Chairman Directors at our Board strategy day and North America 23% Board development sessions.
An external Rest of the World 11% review of Board effectiveness was also undertaken.
I want to thank our Directors for their commitment and contribution this year.
To read more about the Board go to pages 58-92.
Along with remuneration policy, key Board agenda issues included the purchase of a controlling stake in X-Leisure: the commitment to our Nova Victoria, SW1 development: and our five-year forecast and budget for the business.
There were no changes to the Board during the year although we do expect to make a Nonexecutive appointment over the next 12 months as part of succession planning for the Board.
We retain our diversity target of 25% female Board representation by 2015.
It is important that the Company maintains good relationships with those who affect, and are affected by, what we do.
Our teams go to great lengths to support the local areas in which we operate, developing partnerships with community groups and councils that can make a lasting difference to peoples lives.
We are particularly involved in creating local job and apprenticeship opportunities.
This year the Company started to record the full socio-economic effect of our development schemes, and we intend to share the results with local authorities.
We also support Central Government in their efforts to boost economic activity and employment.
Land Securities takes a lead on addressing long-term issues relevant to our industry.
For example, changing environmental regulation will have a substantial impact on property owners and occupiers over coming years.
We are helping to inform government decision-making in this area.
We are also giving close attention to environmental issues in our business planning and the way we design our buildings.
Any other approach would be short-sighted.
Moving forward, we will continue to rely on our own actions, not the market, to generate Land Securities Annual Report 2013 23
