Overview Chairmans statement Patrick Vaughan Chairman The year to 31 March 2013 fell into two distinct halves.
In the first half, we were still seeing an environment where caution was required while, in the second half, we began to see signs of improvement, which augur well for the coming year.
In my predecessors statement for the half year to September, he highlighted his belief that one must remain patient in our investment approach.
While we will certainly remain cautious going forward, I believe it is also time to be bolder.
The second half of the year was very significant, because itinvolved a merger with Metric Property Investments plc Metric.
Since the year end, the merged business, renamed LondonMetric Property Plc, has come together in a single office at One Curzon Street with a dynamic can do approach.
I have known and worked for many years with Andrew Jones, Valentine Beresford and Mark Stirling.
I believe the addition toour business of the Metric team will generate great progress.
Itwas also the moment Raymond Mould decided it was time toretire, given this strengthening of the team.
After working with him as my close business partner and friend for 44 years, that I believe it is time to be represents a big change, but one which I know from the early dynamics of the merger will nonetheless allow us to move bolder... the changes ahead very successfully.
On behalf of all of us, I offer him ourvery best wishes and thanks.
underway in the Results balance and mix The income statement on page 57 of this report reects the activity of London & Stamford for the period from 1 April 2012 until the merger and then shows the combined activity of the ofourbusiness will enlarged Group for the two months to 31 March 2013. provide the Company These results have been impacted over the year by an unusual weight of exceptional items which together amount to 49.5million and are largely not recurring.
These include the net with a strong and loss on the sale of our investment in the Meadowhall Shopping Centre as a result of a debt mark to market adjustment which exciting future amounted to 23.2 million.
Italso includes a further 26.3 million of exceptional items, inrespect of the amortisation of part ofthe purchase consideration paid for the acquisition and internalisation of LSI Management in 2010, the amortisation ofthe cost of the Green Park Property Advisory Agreement, and the merger costs.
The bonds and merger costs are non-recurring items.
One more half year of amortisation ofthepurchase consideration will occur this September, then that is nished.
The Green Park intangible asset of 9.6 million will remain and will continue to be amortised to March 2015.
02 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview profit before the deduction of these exceptional items and tax In the current year we expect to be busier.
It is our primary amounted to 39.9 million, which is an increase of 20.4million, objective to achieve a run rate of recurring net rents at the or 105% on last year.
If that was adjusted to include the full levelof our current dividend, so we can move on from there.
years activity of Metric to give a real year-on-year comparison, Weshall be undertaking major reductions in our residential the total for the year would have been 45.6million, a 39% portfolio, which has grown strongly in value, but does not increase in the proforma profits of the combined business support our dividend policy.
The time is also fast approaching over2012.
when our business plan calls for a reduction in our City of London investments.
These are not sector or market calls: they With the exceptional costs falling away and the combined are theresult of the planned evolution of those assets.
We shall business operating at full steam, I believe you will see real continue to focus on out-of-town retail to take full advantage progress in our current year.
ofour expertise in the sector and we shall also concentrate Net assets at 31 March 2013 were 676.7 million for the ondistribution, with emphasis, such as our Primark purchase, combined business, after our return of 100 million of capital onwhere that distribution involves retail and the internet, toshareholders, compared to 630.9 million in 2012.
This is sowecan fully deploy our sector skills.
equivalent to 108p per share on our enlarged capital compared to 116p per share in 2012.
The reduction of 8p in net The Board asset value includes the deduction of 9p of exceptional items, Following the retirement of Richard Crowder at the merger, as referred to above, and after the payment of 7p in dividend Andrew Huntley has decided not to standfor re-election to for the year.
theBoard at the AGM and Mark Burton has decided to retire.
This is obviously very sad, as they have been very strong At property level, the total return was 8.0%, compared Non-Executive Directors and they will be much missed.
It takes totheIPD return of 3.0%.
A further breakdown shows our us from eight tosix Non-Executive Directors, alongside our three income return was 5.6% versus 6.0% for IPD and our Executive Directors.
On behalf of all parties involved with the capitalperformance was 2.4% against 2.8% for IPD.
Company, Igive them our thanks.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 3.5p per share, I believe the enlarged management team together with the tobe paid on 12 July 2013 which, when taken with the interim changes underway in the balance and mix of our business dividend of the same amount paid on 7 December 2012, willprovide the Company with a strong and exciting future.
willgive a total dividend in respect of the year of 7p.
The portfolio In addition to our merger, the year has been an extremely active one.
We made a number of well reported disposals, including Meadowhall and the Triangle distribution portfolio which delivered returns on equity of 129% and 33% respectively.
Thetwobusinesses made acquisitions totalling 522 million Patrick Vaughan LondonMetric share: 397 million, the most significant Chairman ofwhichinclude the Saturn out-of-town retail park portfolio, theLeatherhead offices of Unilever, a major office scheme 31 May 2013 atGlobe Park, Marlow, and a large Primark distribution centre.
The average yield of these acquisitions was 7.4% with a WAULT of 12.9 years.
Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 03
