6 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Chairmans statement Our formula for success Thanks to the dedication of our people, we have grown stronger as a company, delivering consistent results and creating substantial value for our shareholders.
1 year 11.8% Our values 2 years 37.1% 30 3 years 43.8% Openness, trust Position in FTSE 100 Index as at Compass share price performance and integrity 30 September 2013 2012: 32 vs FTSE 100 Index over the last 3 years Passion for quality Share price Win through teamwork Compass Group share price performance vs the FTSE 100 Index Can do safely 2012 2013 950 900 Responsibility 850 800 750 700 650 600 S O N D J F M A M J J A S FTSE rebased Compass FTSE 100 has been rebased to the Compass Group share price on 28 September 2012 683.50p Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 7 I am delighted to report, in what is my last Chairmans statement Leadership for Compass, another successful year in which we have grown revenue During the year, James Crosby stepped down from the Board and and operating profit, delivering a margin of over 7% for the first time.
Sir Ian Robinson was appointed both Senior Independent Director This is a remarkable achievement and I am immensely proud of the and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir Ian has been a hard work and commitment shown by my colleagues around Non-Executive Director of Compass since December 2006 and has the Group.
brought a wealth of experience to the Board.
Since I joined Compass in 2005, we have faced some extraordinary I am also delighted to welcome Paul Walsh to the Group as my challenges.
We first rebuilt the foundations of the business on a successor.
Paul will join as a Non-Executive Director from 1 January stronger and more sustainable footing, putting the creation of 2014 and will become Non-Executive Chairman at the conclusion shareholder value as our priority.
We implemented new governance of the Annual General Meeting on 6 February 2014. processes and took positive action to rebuild our reputation.
We exited non-core businesses and countries to bring a greater focus and Paul has had an extensive career, most recently as Chief Executive Officer of Diageo plc.
His experience leading one of the UKs largest discipline to our growth.
Our management team, led by Group Chief Executive Richard Cousins, put in place a consistent, and now proven, international companies through a period of significant global expansion makes him an excellent addition to our Board and I wish him every strategy with food at our core allied to a growing support services business, recognising the attractive structural growth opportunities success in his role as Chairman of Compass.
Our business model is robust.
The Management and Our Board is supported by the Groups Executive Board, led by our Performance MAP framework introduced process and efficiency and Group Chief Executive Richard Cousins and by strong leadership teams continues to be a key element of our success.
Over the years, we have across our geographies.
We have worked hard to put in place effective faced significant economic challenges but, thanks in large part to the succession and development programmes and the continued strong dedication of our people, we have grown stronger as a company, results we have achieved are testament to these efforts.
delivering consistent results and creating substantial value for our Shareholders.
As I prepare to hand over the Chairmanship to my Our people successor, Paul Walsh, I am confident that I am leaving the business Over the years I have spent as Chairman of Compass, it has been my in very good shape.
privilege to meet many of our people across the world.
I have been consistently impressed by the quality and commitment of our teams.
Commitment to corporate responsibility Our people are a key element of our formula for success and, on behalf Corporate responsibility underpins our business, driving our decisions of the Board, I would like to thank them for their continued dedication and enabling us to achieve our strategic goals in a responsible and and add my personal thanks for what we have achieved together.
The Board is fully committed to the integration of corporate responsibility across the Group and a focus on broader Summary and outlook social and environmental issues to benefit the communities in which Compass has had a good year, delivering solid organic revenue growth we operate.
Our teams around the Group work hard to continuously and a 20 basis point increase in the Group operating margin, which enhance the positive contribution we make.
We focus on the is now over 7% for the first time.
North America and Fast Growing responsible use of resources, the health and wellbeing of our & Emerging, which account for two thirds of Group revenue, have consumers and on creating opportunities for greater engagement grown strongly and our operating margin in North America has with local communities.
Looking ahead to next year, the pipeline of Since we started our corporate responsibility journey in 2007, we new contracts is encouraging and we expect to see further good have seen continued improvement in our performance.
Details of performances in these regions.
We anticipate economic conditions our progress can be found on pages 20 to 25. in Europe & Japan will remain challenging.
However, the actions we are taking give us confidence in another year of delivery.
Shareholder returns We remain very positive about the opportunities to grow the business I am proud of the significant value we have created for our and we are well placed to capitalise on the significant structural growth Shareholders.
Since 2005, Compass has delivered a total return potential in both food and support services globally.
We also expect to of 455% to our Shareholders, well above the 66% for the FTSE 100 deliver further cost efficiencies which will help to support future growth as a whole.
and enable us to make further progress in the operating margin.
As a We remain committed to a progressive dividend policy and this year result, we remain confident in our ability to continue to create significant value for our Shareholders.
the Board is proposing a final dividend of 16.0 pence for payment on 24 February 2014.
This brings our total dividend for 2013 to 24.0 pence, a year on year increase of 12.7%.
In addition to this, the confidence we have in our future performance and our current investment requirements mean we are able to drive greater efficiency into the balance sheet with a further share buyback of 500 million, which we expect to complete in the 2014 calendar year.
Separately, the current 400 million share buyback programme remains Sir Roy Gardner on track to complete before the 2013 calendar year end.
