Chairmans statement A positive year for our Company most of the problems were of our own We have no borrowings, strong cash flow making.
We took too long to implement and healthy customer relationships in all the Group ERP system and this resulted aspects of our business and we face the in logistics issues that have depressed future with confidence in our strategy our profit and temporarily increased our and in our operational capability.
Where working capital requirements which have, we have stumbled we have reacted in turn, negatively impacted our cash vigorously to improve our performance position in the short term.
We managed to stabilise our problem I take this opportunity to thank our contracts in Germany and reengineered customers for their confidence in us and our processes and organisation there.
As a the business they have given us, and our Greg Lock, Chairman result, our German business has performed employees for their skills, development well in 2013, and it is now better positioned and performance.
In the UK, the business was I trust you will find the above summary and Dear Shareholder, strong in both product sales and Services the details which follow to be fair, balanced I am pleased to report a positive year for revenues and profit, and we were pleased and understandable.
our Company with good progress on with our progress across all fronts.
All of this added up to healthy revenue Revenue grew 5.4 per cent to a record high growth and solid profit for the Group as of 3.072 billion, our adjusted profit before a whole.
tax was a solid 81.7 million and our strong The implementation of our Group consistent cash generation enabled us Operating Model in the UK and Germany is to make a special return of approximately Greg Lock substantially complete and we expect solid 75 million to our shareholders, in addition Chairman progress from our businesses in each of to regular dividends.
The changes We did not, however, meet our plan in in management and organisation we are France and were disappointed with our making in France will not deliver much profit performance there.
While business improvement in the coming year, but we are conditions in that country were challenging, determined to focus on the long term.
Our platform for growth and profitability Earnings per share Generation of operating pro t and cash To lead with To improve To retain and To innovate and grow our our Services maximise the our Services Services business productivity and relationship with offerings to build enhance our our customers future growth competitiveness over the long term opportunities Adjusted profit before tax and diluted earnings per share are stated prior to exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Adjusted operating profit is also stated after charging interest on customer specific financing.
Exceptional items for 2012 have been restated to take account of the reclassification of trading losses and provisions in respect of the three onerous German contracts.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 03 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Facilitating our Business Model Our strategic objectives Financial statements Governance Strategic report
