OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 3 OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MAKING SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS In 2013, we have made further significant progress in delivering the strategic priorities we set out in November 2011.
Our asset base and capital structure have been strengthened and we are well positioned to capitalise on growth opportunities in 2014 and beyond.
As part of our asset recycling programme, Our headline rental income has continued The Board continues to offer a Dividend we have sold 591 million of assets this year, to be impacted by disposal activity this year, Reinvestment Plan for the 2013 final dividend.
including 346 million of non-core assets.
as well as by the exit of Neckermann from The Board expects to maintain the dividend Notonly is this ahead of the 300 million its campus in January 2013.
EPRA earnings throughout the strategic reshaping process, to 500 million target we set ourselves, per share have correspondingly fallen and is committed to a progressive dividend but we have also achieved prices ahead by 8 per cent to 17.7 pence, reecting a policy in the longer term, consistent with of 31 December 2012 values.
We have 12 per cent decline in net rental income, our goal of creating aleading incomereinvested around half of the proceeds in partly offset by lower net interest costs and focused REIT.
accretive acquisitions in our core markets administrative expenses.
and in our profitable and fide-risked Despite the tough economic environment BOARD CHANGES development pipeline.
across much of Europe, the investment market In January 2013, Margaret Ford joined the We completed the creation of the SEGRO appetite for industrial and logistics assets has Board as a Non-Executive Director, becoming European Logistics Partnership known as strengthened considerably during the year, the Senior Independent Director.
In May SELP with Canadian investor Public Sector particularly in the UK.
This is reected in 2013, Andy Gulliford, Chief Operating officer, Pension Investment Board PSP Investments the 4 per cent increase in the value of our and Phil Redding, Chief Investment officer, in October 2013, which was seeded with completed assets and the 6 per cent rise in were appointed to the Board as Directors.
1 billion of SEGROs Continental European EPRA net asset value per share to 312 pence Thom Wernink, Non-Executive Director, big box logistics assets and land.
The use of from 294 pence a year ago.
will retire from the Board at our AGM in third party capital will allow us to increase our Whilst Group EPRA earnings have fallen, April 2014, having served it for nine years.
exposure to this growing market, generating mainly due to disposals, this was in line with On behalf of the Board, I thank him for his attractive returns for our shareholders: our expectations and we have made progress wise counsel and contribution to thebusiness we have made an encouraging start by against our strategic objectives.
We expect to over that time.
A replacement for Thom will exchanging contracts, in February 2014, to make further progress in 2014 as we intensify be announced in due course.
acquire a 472 million Continental European our efforts towards  big box portfolio.
The combination of net disposals and the NIGEL RICH CBE The Board is grateful to all our employees for creation of SELP means we have also been CHAIRMAN their hard work and diligence in delivering able to reduce Group debt, another of our these results, and to the Groups wider strategic priorities.
Our loan to value ratio stakeholders for their continuing support.
including our share of debt in our joint ventures has fallen to 42 per cent as a result, DIVIDEND assisted by a welcome increase in the value of The recommended final dividend of our assets.
We retain a long term LTV target 9.9pence per share 2012: 9.9 pence will be of 40 per cent but it may rise temporarily paid as a Property Income Distribution, giving depending on the timing of our investment a total dividend for the year of 14.8pence and disposal activity.
The final dividend will be paid on 9 May 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 28 March 2014.
