Chairmans statement 08 I am pleased to announce another set of excellent results, following a year of good progress for Shaftesbury, in which high levels of activity across our portfolio have driven growth in the value of our business.
London and the West End have gone from strength-to-strength, particularly since the Olympics, with record visitor numbers reported to date in 2013.
Occupier demand remains strong, and vacancy levels have been low throughout the year.
Our portfolio, now valued at 2.05bn, has continued to perform well Our redevelopment and refurbishment programme continues apace, this year, delivering a revaluation surplus of 174.3 million, which has with 21 schemes currently on-site with an ERV of 4.9 million, the largest increased EPRA net asset value per share by 69p 13.9% to 5.67 at of which is our 32,500 sq.
ft. development fronting both Fouberts Place 30September 2013.
After adding back dividends, the total NAV return and Kingly Street.
We continue to identify and progress opportunities for the year was 16.3%.
to unlock further rental growth from within our existing portfolio.
EPRA profit after tax for the year ended 30 September 2013 was 30.2 We have purchased properties during the year totalling 28.0 million.
million compared with 30.6 million for the previous year.
We have had In current economic conditions, the supply of suitable properties to buy an unusually high level of redevelopment and refurbishment activity remains limited in our prosperous locations.
Owners in the West End during the year, undertaking 50 projects, totalling approximately recognise the unique investment qualities of the type of properties we 165,000 sq.
ft. which represented nearly 9% of our total floor area.
are seeking to acquire and generally only sell when they have a particular These schemes, which include our two large projects in Carnaby, will need for cash.
Our acquisition strategy continues to be focused, ensuring deliver increased rental income in the coming years.
Inevitably, they that purchases meet our strict criteria of location, uses, potential for have resulted in higher vacancy levels in the short term, which has improvement through change of use and refurbishment, and benefits tempered growth in income and profits in 2013.
Letting space as these from combination with our existing ownerships.
schemes have completed has been successful, reflecting strong Robust long-term financing underpins the stability of our business.
demand for all uses and across all our villages.
At the year end, space Our debt represented 29.5% of portfolio value at year end and our earliest available to let and being marketed represented 1.3% of our ERV.
We are in discussion with existing and new The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 6.25p, bringing lenders to refinance the earliest maturities and increase our available the total for the year to 12.5p, an increase of 4.2% compared with last debt facilities.
The final dividend will be paid on 14 February 2014 to shareholders There have been a number of changes to your Board during the year.
on the register on 24 January 2014.
Of this, 3.75p will be paid as a PID On 1 October 2012, we broadened the knowledge and skills of the Board under the UK REIT regime with the remainder being paid as an with the appointment of Sally Walden and Dermot Mathias as non-executive ordinary dividend.
As announced this time last year, I replaced John Manser as Dividends declared in respect of this financial year, totalling 31.5 million, non-executive Chairman following his retirement in February 2013. are in excess of EPRA profit after tax, which amounted to 30.2 million.
After serving nine years as a non-executive director of Shaftesbury, This is largely as a result of an increase in the accounting charge for Gordon McQueen, our Senior Independent Director and Chairman of equity-settled remuneration resulting from the continuing strong the Audit Committee, will retire from the Board at the AGM in February performance of our portfolio.
In recommending this dividend, the Board 2014.
I would like to thank Gordon for his outstanding commitment and has taken into account the short-term impact on revenue from the guidance over the past years.
Jill Little will become the Senior Independent high level of redevelopment activity, the successful letting of completed Director and step down from the chairmanship of the Remuneration schemes, and the expected significant contribution to our earnings Committee.
Sally Walden and Dermot Mathias will chair the from schemes that have finished, or are due to complete over the Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively.
We expect our dividend to be covered in 2014.
The West End, with its uniquely diverse economy, underpinned by a strong Our portfolio produced a capital value return of 9.5%, which compares domestic and international visitor base, continues to be a prosperous to a capital value decline of 0.4% reported by the IPD Monthly Index.
place for businesses and an exciting place to live.
London is going through This strong performance was the result of like-for-like growth in current a period of rapid growth, with its population forecast to grow by 20% to income and ERV of 5.4% and 4.5% respectively, coupled with yield 10 million by 2030.
There is major investment in all aspects of its compression of 24 basis points in the wholly owned portfolio and 15 basis infrastructure to ensure that it can cope with this expansion.
Significant points in the Longmartin joint venture.
Our ERV has grown from regeneration projects in and around the West End, some of which are 99.9million to 105.9 million, 20.0 million above current income.
already under way, will provide new places to work and live, all within Over the year, our shares delivered a total shareholder return of ashort distance from our vibrant villages.
14.1%compared with 24.7% shown by the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
Sustainable rental growth is the key to delivering attractive returns to Despite outperforming over the longer-term, this period of relative shareholders over the long term.
I am confident that the benefits from under-performance has come as the UK economy has shown signs the continuing high volume of activity arising from our proven strategy that it is returning to growth.
As a result, the market has re-rated the of innovative and intensive asset management, once compounded shares of companies with a higher risk profile than ours, particularly across the portfolio, will continue to drive growth in rents and of those which have a relatively large proportion of their portfolio long-term values.
focused on central London development.
Jonathan S. Lane Chairman 27 November 2013 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 OVERVIEW 09 StRatEgIc REpORt Business model 10 Portfolio performance 16 Our portfolio 20 Finance review 38 Corporate responsibility 43 Principal risks and uncertainties 48 Portfolio analysis 50 Basis of valuation 50 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT
