Workspace had a successful year, sticking resolutely to throughout the year, our Board has played an active our strategy of driving value by growing income through role in helping guide the company and we remain increased rent and occupancy while adding to the value committed to a strong succession approach.
John of our assets through focused refurbishment and Bywaters retirement as a Non-Executive Director will redevelopment.
i am pleased to report that this has occur in July this year and he leaves with our thanks for delivered a strong set of results for the year.
his long-standing contribution over the last nine years.
Joining us, we welcome chris Girling and Damon Our cEO, Jamie hopkins, has brought a renewed energy russell.
chris has a strong background in finance and to bear which has resulted in a clear focus on our priorities, management while Damon brings a wealth of experience driving our performance and moving the company back across the telecommunications, internet, digital and media into the FtSE250.
We achieved strong growth in revenue sectors.
Ensuring the long-term strength of our Board is a and trading profit for the year.
Group net rental income priority and we will be making a further Non-Executive was 47.1m, an underlying increase of 6%, trading profit Director appointment in due course.
after interest was 17.9m, an increase of 12%, and EPra Nav per share was 3.48, an increase of 13%.
We are also aware of our wider responsibilities in the communities where we work, as well as being conscious Based on these results and the companys future of our environmental impact and we remain committed prospects, the Board is recommending the payment of to strong health and safety and energy sustainability a final dividend of 6.45p per share a total of 9.67p for principles.
We are proud that we have once again been the year to be paid on 2 august 2013, an increase of included in the FtSE4Good index and that we have 10% on last year.
this is in line with our progressive recently been awarded the Bitc communitymark.
continue to do the right things by all of our stakeholders.
During the year we continued to deploy the funds raised the company is working hard so that our customers and in our 2011 rights issue.
We executed a focused capital our employees flourish, our communities and environment expenditure programme to refurbish and extend existing stay vibrant and our shareholders are rewarded for their assets and create buildings that suit our strategy whilst support.
the achievements during the year are many disposing of those that dont.
the result is an integrated and i would particularly like to thank our Workspace portfolio of core buildings that we actively manage, employees for delivering another strong performance.
the Board and i believe that we are clear on our We also refined our debt profile, lengthening the terms objectives, have the right strategy and team in place to and diversifying the sources of funding.
the successful achieve them and, as a result, are ideally positioned to take refinance announced on 11 June 2013 alongside the advantage of the strength of the London economy.
the retail Bond issued earlier in the year will have a businesses we host are critical in driving the uKs growth significant positive impact on the flexibility of our and by serving them with focus and energy we are operational capabilities.
confident that we will maintain our strong business momentum.
DANiEL kiTcHEN NON-ExEcutivE chairmaN RELATED iNFORMATiON cORPORATE SOciAL RESPONSibiLiTy P. 14 cORPORATE GOVERNANcE REPORT P. 35 04 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Review of operations 01-26 Governance 27-61 Financial statements 62-95 Shareholder information 96-100 Daniel KitChen NON-ExEcutivE chairmaN Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05
