Chairmans Statement Martin Davey - Chairman This has been a positive year for Cranswick.
Further progress was achieved in trading and investment was made for this progress to continue over the longer term.
Pig meat consumption in the UK continues to grow.
There was a 2 per cent increase in UK per capita consumption during 2012 compared to a fractional increase in poultry and reductions in beef veal and lamb mutton source: BPEX.
In food service pig meat performed well and accounted for 28 per cent of all protein servings, making it the most popular protein out of the home source: BPEX.
The business is totally focused on working closely with both its customer base and supply chain to ensure that the consumer has competitively priced food that is nutritious, tasty and a wholesome constituent of a balanced diet.
acquired and integrated into the Companys Results cooked meats business.
Kingston, which At a glance has broadened the Groups customer base, The performance in the year was has performed well since acquisition and I particularly pleasing considering the welcome Tony Turner, managing director, previous year was a 53 week period Revenue and his colleagues to Cranswick.
compared to the usual 52 week period this past year.
875.2m Subsequent to the year end the Company acquired East Anglian Pigs.
This is a Underlying sales, which exclude the 7% successful business involved in the contribution from Kingston Foods, rose 2012: 820.8m breeding, rearing and finishing of British 5 per cent during the year and reflected pigs and a key supplier to the Groups growth across most product sectors.
It operates in the British Particularly strong growth was seen in sales premium outdoor pig-rearing sector and Before Impairment of bacon and sausage.
Underlying sales has accreditation under the RSPCA Freedom were 7 per cent higher on an equivalent 52 5.7% Foods and the Red Tractor schemes.
Total revenue for the year was strategic acquisition enhances Cranswicks 7 per cent higher at 875 million and 9 per commitment to, and greater control over, a cent higher than previously after adjusting 2012: 5.7% robust and integrated supply chain with a for the extra week.
clear focus on premium British ingredients.
Adjusted profit Before Tax I welcome Adrian Dowling, managing With an unchanged operating margin before director, and his colleagues to Cranswick.
impairment, and after net finance costs of 49.3m 0.8 million, adjusted profit before tax was Significant organic developments included 49.3 million compared to 45.6 million last 8% the purchase of and investment in the year which included the benefit of the extra 2012: 45.6m Riverside fresh pork facility in Hull and the week, an increase of 8 per cent.
Earnings construction of the pastry plant in Malton, per share on the same basis were 8 per Adjusted Earnings Per Share North Yorkshire.
These two sites, which cent higher at 78.9 pence.
Reported profit have only recently been commissioned, will before tax was 47.4 million and earnings 78.9p contribute to the long term growth of the per share were 75.1 pence compared to Company.
48.4 million and 78.6 pence respectively a 8% year ago.
2012: 72.9p Investment elsewhere in the business contributed additional capacity and Net finance costs were covered 63 times operating efficiencies which in turn have Dividends Per Share by profit before net finance costs and tax, enabled the Company to absorb some compared to 49 times in the previous year.
30.0p of the inflationary pressures within the Operating cash flow in the year was strong supply chain.
This, along with substantial and after significant investment in the 5% new business from customers later in the asset base and the acquisition of cooked 2012: 28.5p year, were significant features of the years meats supplier Kingston Foods, year end trading.
net debt stood at 20.1 million compared Net Cash From to 21.7 million a year earlier.
This amount Resources were committed to secure is comfortably within the Companys Operating Activities approval for fresh pork exports to China borrowing facility and with a very small and authorisation has also been obtained to pension scheme exposure puts the balance 49.8m supply the Australian market.
Along with the sheet in good shape.
approval obtained previously for supplies 9% to the USA this increases the potential There are full reviews of trading and 2012: 45.5m international opportunities for the business.
finances in the reviews by the Chief Executive and Finance Director which follow.
Dividend Investments The Board is proposing to increase the final dividend to 20.6 pence per share, During the year Kingston Foods was 2 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance an increase of 5.6 per cent on last year.
Together with the interim dividend, which Kate Allum, CEO of First Milk Limited and Outlook was raised 4.4 per cent to 9.4 pence per former head of European supply chain for share and paid in January 2013, this makes McDonalds, joins the Board as a NonCranswick is very much focused on working a total dividend for the year of 30.0 pence Executive Director in July 2013.
Kate brings closely with its customers in providing per share.
This represents an increase of 5.3 operational experience of international food a range of products that continues per cent on the 28.5 pence per share paid markets and broadens the expertise and to prove popular with the consumer.
The final dividend, if approved by experience within the Board.
Encouragement is taken from the increase Shareholders, will be paid on 6 September in pork consumption within the UK and this, 2013 to Shareholders on the register at the Hector Fraser coupled with new product development, close of business on 5 July 2013.
Shares will positions the business favourably.
Shareholders Hector, one of the 23 local farmers who will again have the option to receive the founded Cranswick in the early 1970s Recent issues in the integrity of the dividend by way of scrip issue.
and who served as a director until his supply chain for meat products and the retirement in 1989, sadly passed away last introduction in 2013 of higher welfare Board month.
Hector contributed enormously to standards for pig production in the EU the early development of the business and enhance the competitive position of UK Adam Couch was appointed Chief Executive the Directors join with all at Cranswick in based pork processors.
The Companys in August 2012 in line with the prior offering condolences to Hectors wife Judy well invested asset base, providing efficient notification to Shareholders.
This followed and all his family.
means of production and headroom for the appointment of Jim Brisby as Sales and future growth, along with an experienced Marketing Director and Mark Bottomley as management team and a robust balance Corporate Governance Finance Director within the previous three sheet should enable it to capitalise on years as part of the Boards succession opportunities that arise.
The Board is mindful of the requirements planning.
Each of these were internal of the UK Corporate Governance Code appointments and made after giving due The Board looks forward to the task that and embraces this as part of its culture.
consideration to potential candidates lies ahead as it pursues the continuation A statement relating to compliance with from outside the Company.
It illustrates of Cranswicks successful long term the Code is included within the Corporate to our colleagues the opportunity for development.
Governance Statement on page 28. career development with Cranswick and Developments since last year include the maintains the culture, ethos and values of arrangements that have been put in place the business.
With the executive team now for external evaluation of the Board and its well established I will be moving to a part procedures as well as the improved gender time role as Chairman with effect from 1 diversity within the Board as referred to Martin Davey September 2013. above.
Chairman 20 May 2013 Patrick Farnsworth will be standing down Staff from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Patrick has served as The achievements of the year would not a Non-Executive Director since 2004 and have been possible without the expertise, this year will have completed a term of determination and commitment of the nine years at which time, under corporate management teams and their colleagues governance guidelines, he will no longer within the business.
Once again they have be deemed independent.
I would like to proved themselves to be amongst the best thank Patrick for his contribution to the in the sector and on behalf of the Board I development of the business and wish him express sincere thanks and appreciation.
