Chairmans statement CSR has transformed itself from a provider of Bluetooth components in handsets into a diversified platform provider, addressing attractive growth markets.
Ron Mackintosh Chairman CSR is an innovator in the development of multifunction While we continue to return cash to shareholders, the Company semiconductor platforms across five strategic areas: Auto, has ended the year with cash, cash equivalents and treasury Voice & Music, Imaging, and the two nascent markets of deposits of $306.2 million.
Since 2010, CSR has returned a Bluetooth Smart and Indoor Location.
Our platforms are cumulative $506 million to shareholders via the combination of adopted by many of the worlds leading technology and the tender offer in 2012, share buybacks and dividends.
consumer focused companies in a wide range of consumer Our competitive environment devices and automobiles.
Together, these five strategic areas The markets in which CSR operates continue to provide good represent our areas of focus and we believe that they prospects for growth.
We recognise that in establishing and position us to deliver growth and sustainable returns in the maintaining our objective of having market leading positions in medium and longer term.
our target markets, we are up against strong competitors, as Summary of 2013 well as a rapidly changing landscape for consumer electronics.
2013 was a positive year for CSR, with underlying diluted Your Board is mindful of the challenges that lie ahead and we earnings per share showing good growth on the prior year from continue to evaluate the potential risks that could impact the $0.27 in 2012 to $0.46 in 2013.
We address these matters in more detail on pages 35 to 37 and pages 45 to 51.
Reflecting our strategy, Core revenue increased 9% from $661.1 million in 2012 to $722.3 million in 2013, while revenue from the Overall during 2013, we have delivered strong revenue in the Legacy Products business declined 35% from $364.3 million in areas of Voice & Music and Auto despite increasing competition 2012 to $238.4 million in 2013, which resulted in an overall in both these markets.
The markets in which we operate are Group revenue of $960.7 million for the year, a decline of 6%.
also prone to rapid and significant changes, driven by end user Group gross margin has continued to improve, rising to 51.6% demand and changes in technologies.
for 2013, as Core becomes a higher proportion of Group This has been the case particularly in Cameras which is within revenue.
We have also increased cash generation, with cash our Consumer segment, whose market has seen a rapid decline generated from operating activities increasing to $82.3 million at due to people using their smartphones to take photographs, the end of 2013, an increase of 11% on 2012. rather than established digital still camera products.
As a result, Our IFRS operating loss was $48.4 million, a reduction on in December, we decided to discontinue development of our our 2012 operating profit of $107.9 million.
Our IFRS diluted loss cameraon-a-chip COACH platform.
We will be increasing per ordinary share was $0.28 versus diluted earnings per investment in the growing areas of Bluetooth Smart and Voice ordinary share of $0.25 in 2012.
This swing mainly reflects the & Music.
profit in 2012 from the Samsung transaction, while in 2013 we On behalf of the Board, I would like to recognise and thank the recorded an impairment for our Cameras business, which I people who have worked on COACH and enabled the product discuss in more detail below.
to develop over many years.
We are aware of the impact on our During the year, we concentrated on our platform strategy, people, arising from the discontinuation of the development of and Joep van Beurden, our CEO, will provide more detail on COACH, and we wish them well for the future.
Board changes Returns to shareholders In May 2013, Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio stood down from CSRs performance enables us to continue investing in new the Board, as previously announced.
Sergio had been on the products and technologies, which underpin our strategy and to Board since January 2007 and also chaired our remuneration sustain the return of capital to our shareholders, During the year, committee.
His experience and abilities have been of enormous we returned $67.8 million to shareholders through the buyback value to the Board and the committees on which he has served.
of shares, in addition to pursuing our progressive dividend policy.
I would like to thank him on behalf of the Board and wish him well.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Board is recommending On 6 December 2013, we were pleased to announce the a final dividend of $0.091 per ordinary share.
This would bring appointment of Walker Boyd to the Board.
Walker served as the total dividend for 2013 to $0.136 per ordinary share, an Group Finance Director of Signet Jewelers Limited formerly increase of 15% on 2012.
Signet Group plc, and was also non-executive chairman of WH Smith PLC.
He is currently non-executive chairman of Spirit Pub Company plc, a role he has held since its fide-merger from Punch Taverns in August 2011.
6 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 6 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information On 31 December 2013, Andrew Allner, a non-executive investing in areas which we believe provide the technologies to director and chairman of our audit committee stood down facilitate this rapidly growing opportunity.
from the Board, in order to allow him to concentrate on his other We are already engaged with customers on exploring how commitments.
The Board and management have benefited to deploy our Bluetooth Smart and Indoor Location technologies greatly from Andrews experience and knowledge across to meet the opportunity that the IoT provides.
While this market financial and commercial matters, over a period when CSR has has attracted competing ideas and players, we believe that CSR undergone significant change since his appointment in 2008. is well placed to compete and offer differentiated solutions which I would like to thank him on behalf of the Board and wish him well.
offer good prospects for growth in the medium to longer term.
Following Andrews standing down from our Board, Walker has been appointed chairman of our audit committee.
Our people On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all the people from Delivering our platforms CSR for their effective contribution in 2013.
We work in an We are a fabless semiconductor company and we would not increasingly changing environment and I continue to be positively be able to get to the position we are today without the support surprised by the way the Company rises to the new challenges of our supply chain partners.
I would like to express our thanks, that are generated in the consumer electronics market.
in particular to both TSMC, whom we have worked with from Looking forward our first chip to the present day, and ASE who provide CSR with The year 2013 has been one where we have consolidated our testing, packaging and logistics.
While we will undoubtedly have challenges ahead, we Internet of Things believe we have the right portfolio of technologies and people to We are living in a world that is increasingly interconnected using execute our platform strategy, as we look forward with digital technology.
People are using wireless devices more confidence to the future.
frequently, be it for social networking, searching for up to the minute information, or consuming digital media.
We also are seeing the early signs of the rise of machine-to-machine communications, often known as the Internet of Things IoT.
Like many others, we see this as having the potential for a fundamental change in the way all of us use technology.
Ron Mackintosh Chairman We believe over the next few years that smartphones or tablets 25 February 2014 will act as hubs which enable an increasing array of portable and wearable devices to connect to the internet.
CSR has been how were doing The potential for Bluetooth Smart remains strong as we see increasing demand in areas such as Human Interface Devices, remote controls and wearables We saw strong revenue growth in our Voice & Music business, supported by growth in our stereo audio products and licencees for our aptX technology In Auto, we have a good pipeline of design wins for our new generation of Automotive Infotainment platforms We saw weakness in Cameras as people increasingly use smartphones rather than digital still cameras to take photographs www.
