Strategic report Chairmans statement In just nine years we have made a remarkable 2 013 was another strong year for Afren.
transition from an AIM start-up into an established mid-cap independent, through Weenjoyed record revenues and cash flow our ability to identify opportunities early, use our technical capability, and achieve underpinned by strong production from our sustainable production and reserves growth responsibly.
With an established portfolio of greenfield developments offshore Nigeria.
significant scale giving us leadership across Wecontinue to achieve industry-leading our three business units, we are now in a strong position to build on these foundations exploration success and have materially for the next phase of our growth.
I am confident that we will continue to create enhanced the business with the basin-opening significant value for our shareholders.
discovery at Ogo, oneof the largest discoveries Exceptional exploration in the world in2013.
and appraisal success For Afren, 2013 was another year of exceptional exploration and appraisal E&A achievement.
The highlight for the year was the basin-opening discovery at the Ogo-1 well, located on the OPL 310 licence offshore Nigeria.
Thewell encountered light oil and condensate rich gas in a four way dip closed structure and light oil condensate in the syn-rift, with estimated P50 gross recoverable resources significantly ahead of pre-drilling expectations at 774mmboe.
The discovery at Ogo was one ofthe largest in the world in 2013, andthe largest in Nigeria for over a decade, a testament to our growing exploration credentials.
The Partners have commenced a detailed marine 3D seismic programme ahead of planned appraisal drilling.
We are very excited about the long-term prospects for Ogo and the other prospects on the block.
Egbert Imomoh Elsewhere, in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, Chairman following the world-class discovery at the Simrit-2 well 1,509 ft of net oil pay and aggregate flow rates of 19,641 bopd in 2012, we completed drilling on the Simrit-3 well, confirming the eastern extent of the Simrit anticline and achieved a cumulative test rate of 6,293 bopd.
Following the declaration of commerciality, the Partners expect to submit a Field Development Plan in Q1 2014, and remain on-track to deliver incremental growth in our reserves and resources base in 2014.
The Maqlub-1 exploration well, testing the high potential Maqlub structure on the block, is currently drilling ahead, and has encountered hydrocarbons in the Cretaceous and Jurassic reservoirs.
We have an exciting E&A campaign planned over the next 12months that will be targeting 1,237 mmboe in net resources across proven petroleum systems in established andfrontierbasins.
Afren plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Profit after tax of US$475 million was Active portfolio management Board of Directors influenced by the achievement of a tax As part of our commitment to creating and committees exemption relating to the Ebok field, largely sustainable value for shareholders, we offset by additional post-cost recovery constantly review and evaluate the balance amounts due to other participants in thefield.
ofour portfolio to ensure an optimal allocation of resources and capital, targeting Our main production base, in Nigeria, projects with the highest cash returns.
continues to perform strongly and ahead of pre start-up expectations.
Furthermore, Mr Egbert Imomoh In May 2013, we completed the acquisition following our successful exploration Chairman N of an additional 10.4% beneficial interest in campaign in 2012 and 2013, we remain on Dr Osman Shahenshah First Hydrocarbon Nigeria Company Limited track to commence the Okoro Further Field Executive Director FHN to the original 45% interest, for a total Development, Ebok North Fault Block and consideration of some US$37 million.
This Mr Shahid Ullah Okwok in 2014, all of which are expected enabled us to consolidate the holding of FHNs Executive Director to generate high-margin cash flow for the reserves and production as a subsidiary and Group.
These new developments, alongside Mr Darra Comyn augment our existing offshore position in Nigeria the ongoing ramp-up in production from Executive Director by acquiring an attractive onshore portfolio OML 26, onshore Nigeria, and the Barda Rash Mr Peter Bingham of scale, with net reserves and resources of PSC, Kurdistan region of Iraq, will contribute Non-Executive Director A R 433mmboe including management estimates towards delivering double-digit production of additional 2C upside of 144 mmboe, capable Mr John St. John growth over the next five years.
of delivering incremental growth of 18,000 Non-Executive Director bopd net to Afren by 2016.
FHNs portfolio Progressive fide-risking of Mr Ennio Sganzerla also includes the offshore Ajefield, which is Non-Executive Director A N R a material resource base contiguous to the OPL 310 block and which Mr Toby Hayward has previously tested at commercial rates.
In 2013, we achieved a 2P reserves Non-Executive Director A N R InJuly2013, Afren further increased its holding replacement ratio of 201%, following the in FHN by acquiring an additional 23.3% approval of the Okwok FDP in January 2014.
Mr Patrick Obath beneficial interest, increasing our effective We expect our 2014 development and E&A Non-Executive Director A R holdings at the end of December 2013 to 78%.
campaign to further fide-risk our material Ms Sheree Bryant The acquisitions have been achieved at accretive resource base of 810 mmboe net contingent Non-Executive Director N multiples of under US$2.0 2P & 2Cbbl, and we resources and 10,031 mmboe net prospective look forward to working closely with NPDC to resources, as we look to move these assets Audit and Risk Committee A further increase production and undertake an along the value chain and so produce Remuneration Committee R extensive appraisal and exploration programme sustainable growth in organic reserves.
Nomination Committee N on the portfolio.
Well-funded and strong In August 2013, we completed the sale of our balance sheet net interest in the CI-11 block and Lion Gas Plant to Petroci, realising a provisional profit The Group is in a strong position, with net debt on disposal of US$25.3 million.
The assets of US$739 million supported by a stable cashhave afforded Afren a stable production generative production base that we expect and cash-generative base, but we deemed tofund our work programme.
We expect them to be non core to our operations due capital expenditure for 2014 to be US$845 to the competing capital demands of other million and focus both on projects with high higher return projects in the portfolio.
Since cash return, and further exploration drilling.
acquisition, the CI-11 block and LionGasPlant During the year the Group successfully have delivered net operating cash flow of extended the maturity of its liabilities and over US$150 million.
lowered the cost of its debt following the refinancing of the Ebok facility and a tender Record financial performance offer for our Senior Secured notes, funded by driven bya high-quality, a new bond issue with a longer term and a lower interest rate.
Wehave also significantly oil-focused production improved our forward cash tax position and development base following the award of a five-year tax I am delighted to report that Afren achieved exemption at the Ebok field in Nigeria from record revenues and cash flow in 2013, mid-2011 to mid-2016.
The tax exemption drivenby the 7.5% year-on-year growth at Ebok was awarded in recognition of the in net production to 47,112 boepd and positive contribution that independents such continued strength and stability in the oil as Afren in partnership with local indigenous price environment.
We achieved record operators have made to the development turnover ofUS$1.64 billion and generated of the oil and gas sector in Nigeria.
The tax operating cash flows of over US$1.22 billion.
exemption has enabled us to increase capex Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 Strategic report Chairmans statement continued We are in constant dialogue with shareholders at Ebok in 2014 and 2015 in line with our Governance and other stakeholders concerning our objective of allocating capital towards the Our collective responsibility as a Board is to corporate responsibility performance: highest cash return projects.
promote the long-term success of the Group, thisinformation exchange is important Also during the year, we reached agreement providing entrepreneurial leadership within the todeveloping our approach.
In the first half with our Partner on the Ebok field to secure framework of prudent and effective controls.
of 2014 we intend to further develop the future capital allowances and other benefits Ifirmly believe that high standards ofcorporate corporate responsibility section of our website with a value of US$300 million.
Thisagreement governance are central to achieving this so it contains a report in line with the latest means the Group has secured the full benefit success in a responsible manner that takes reporting guidelines.
We also aim to develop from its capital expenditure.
account of the interests of all our stakeholders.
our reporting through mechanisms such asthe Carbon Disclosure Project.
Wecontinue to maintain an open-dialogue Our focus on maintaining high ethical with the relevant authorities and during 2013 standards and strong personal integrity is We include more information on our we paid circa US$400 million in royalties and formalised in our Group Code of Business CRinitiatives and performance in 2013 taxes in Nigeria.
This is implemented across the onpages 62 to 73. business and sets out clear expectations of how An exceptional team our employees and those who work on behalf Effective risk management of Afren should behave.
The Board sets the of people Monitoring and managing risks to the tone, and works with management to establish Afrens growth and success is principally business are integral to Afrens activities.
these values throughout the organisation.
due to the professionalism, creativity and We constantly identify and analyse potential commitment of our people.
To ensure we risks that could adversely affect our ability A clear strategy and can attract and retain the best people, our to achieve our objectives and wehave a apositive outlook remuneration is competitive, encouraging robust and effective system for reporting exceptional performance with a balance of these to the Board.
We continue to This time last year I wrote that Afren had short and long-term rewards, and offering enhance our risk management process and a bright future ahead after an outstanding comprehensive benefits.
We continued to grow itseffectiveness within the organisation, 2012.
We continued to make remarkable our team in2013, with 58 new appointments sowe can identify all risks early and put progress in 2013 towards our vision to be taking our total workforce to 424, of whom mitigation measures in place, and to ensure a leading major independent exploration the vast majority are local nationals.
We will we are fully equipped todeal with our and production company.
Our excellent continue toevolve our employment practices constantly evolving operating andbusiness performance is due to strong leadership by and policies to ensure we are able to attract environment.
Weare communicating the our Chief Executive Osman Shahenshah, his and retain the best talent.
need to manage risks to all organisational executive colleagues and all our employees, levels, to reaffirm that everyone is who are committed to building a high-quality, Working responsibly responsible for managing risks that may value-driven enterprise.
We are in great shape affect their day-to-day work.
and gearing up for an exciting new phase Corporate responsibility CR is one of the ofgrowth, underpinned by strong cash flows five strategic priorities we have identified to Board changes and financial flexibility, to optimally explore ensure we achieve our vision, objective and and develop our high quality portfolio well strategy.
Our approach is to apply guiding I am pleased to announce that we have into the future.
frameworks such as those provided by the strengthened our Board this year with the industry association IPIECA, to develop appointment of Ms Sheree Bryant, the first On behalf of the Board I would like to thank acorporate responsibility strategy tailored female director appointed to our Board.
our shareholders for their continued support.
tothe particular requirements of the countries Ms Bryant, who is also a member of the we operate in.
Nomination Committee, joined in October 2013, and brings to the Board valuable We have identified five key areas of focus experience of leading and developing various to achieve our aim of being a responsible corporate responsibility initiatives, a key business at all times, these are environment priority as we increase our operational and Egbert Imomoh and climate change, health and safety, social footprint.
Chairman communities, business conduct and people.
We have developed policies, systems and key performance indicators for each of these key areas.
We monitor this information regularly at a senior level throughout the business, and it is a topic of discussion at Boardand senior management meetings.
Afren plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance P74 Governance Board Our governance principles Independence We are committed to the highest The independence of each of the Non-Executive standards ofcorporate governance Directors is considered upon appointment, annually and consider it critical forupholding and at any other time a Directors circumstances change in a way that warrants reconsideration.
our business integrity wherever Following a review of Board composition, wework around the world.
theCompany has reassessed the independence  Directors.
It regards all as The Board has been fully briefed on the independent within the meaning of the term asdefined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
UK Corporate Governance Code and are Knowledge committed to complying with it.
Our Non-Executive Directors contribute international operational know-how and were chosen for their wide range of skills and experience.
They understand the sectors in which we operate and have valuable knowledge of international capital markets.
Inaddition, they bring in-depth understanding ofthehealth, safety, environmental, political and community challenges weface.
Responsibility The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decisions.
Responsibility for developing and implementing the Groups strategic and financial objectives is delegated to Mr Egbert Imomoh Dr Osman Shahenshah thesenior management of the Group.
The roles Chairman Chief Executive ofChairman and Chief Executive are separate and the responsibilities of Chairman and ChiefExecutive are independently defined.
Mr Shahid Ullah Mr Darra Comyn Board of Directors by gender Chief Operating Officer Group Finance Director Male 90% Female 10% Mr Peter Bingham Mr John St. John Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Board composition Non-Executive Directors 6 Executive Directors 3 Chairman 1 Mr Ennio Sganzerla Mr Toby Hayward Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Board experience Oil and Gas Industry 6 Engineering 4 Finance and Accounting 4 Capital Markets 4 Environmental & Community 2 Mr Patrick Obath Ms Sheree Bryant Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director For more information see: P78 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
