Balancing these groups different years and has worked for Dairy Crest for interests is never easy, especially at times over seven years in total.
when the need to make change is at its In addition, Toby Brinsmead, who was greatest, but the clarity provided by our Vision Managing Director of the Dairies business and Values helps us make the right decisions.
before we reorganised into a unified structure, left the business earlier this month.
Corporate responsibility I thank him for all he has done, in particular Dairy Crest is a responsible business and has for his important work in creating a more demonstrated its commitment to corporate focused Dairies business.
responsibility by improving its Business in the Community rating from Gold to Platinum Increased dividend recommended Big Tick in the year, the only food business The Board is recommending a final dividend to achieve this prestigious ranking.
We are of 15.0 pence per share, making a full year also delighted to have been shortlisted to dividend of 20.7 pence, up 1.5% from last be Business in the Communitys Company year.
This dividend is covered 1.4 times by of the Year 2013.
During the year we adjusted basic earnings per share.
Against the background of a trading have focused our corporate responsibility The reorganisation of our balance environment which remained extremely commitments on 40 pledges, making it sheet since the year end will lower interest challenging, this was a transformational year easier to align our corporate responsibility charges and result in an improved dividend for Dairy Crest.
The Board has overseen and commercial strategies.
The Board has reviewed the sale of our French spreads business, its dividend policy and, given the Groups St Hubert: a rationalisation of our Dairies Employee, Board and other senior improved cash position, is of the view that, business: a reorganisation of our head office management changes going forward, the current progressive and support functions: and the introduction The transformation overseen by the Board dividend policy should be maintained and the of a ground-breaking milk supply contract has resulted in a smaller workforce which target cover range should be 1.5 to 2.5 times.
which initiated a new relationship between has reduced by around 20% over the the business and its supplying dairy farmers.
As a responsible employer, we have Summary At the same time, in line with our endeavoured to support people who have We have made significant progress this established long-term strategy, we have left the business as best we can.
On behalf year through disciplined execution of our continued to support our key brands and of the Board I would like to thank all of them strategy.
Dairy Crest is now a simpler, more drive costs out of the business.
and all of the people who continue to work focused business which is well positioned We finish the year in a much improved for Dairy Crest directly or indirectly for the to generate growth and good returns for financial position and with a clear plan contribution they have made to the success shareholders.
for growth which will benefit everyone of the Group.
On 23 May 2013, after nearly ten years as Finance Director, Alastair Murray will Well-established Vision and Values leave to pursue other business interests.
In The Groups well-established Vision and his time with Dairy Crest, Alastair has been Values continue to provide the Board with a a Finance Director of the highest quality framework in which to operate.
They reflect with an excellent reputation both within the the fact that consumers come first for Dairy business and outside.
He leaves Dairy Crest Crest and that we are well aware of our with our very best wishes for the future.
links to rural Britain and the responsibility Alastairs successor as Finance Director we have to our farmers, our employees, our is Tom Atherton who has been Dairy Crests Anthony Fry Chairman franchisees and the communities in which Director of Financial Control for the past four 22 May 2013 Financial highlights Strategic highlights Operating highlights Adjusted profit before tax is up 7% Ongoing growth for Cathedral City Successful sale of St Hubert to 50.6 million ahead of market has refocused the business Year end net debt is down 82% Clover and Country Life both gained on the UK to 60 million market share Process is underway to move Post year end restructuring of Innovation driving added value sales: to one business structure balance sheet reduces future 5% of total revenue and 9% of key interest charges focusing on consumer driven brand revenue generated from products introduced in the last three years growth and an integrated Post year end additional 40 million cash contribution to the pension supply chain Continued focus on costs: 23 million fund reduces exposure annualised cost savings delivered in Innovative new milk price 2012 13, with a further 20 million Proposed final dividend is up 2% identified for 2013 14 formula introduced to help farmers and sustain BITC Platinum Big Tick Award reflects ongoing strong Corporate Responsibility milk supply commitment Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 13 Overview
