2 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chairmans letter Focusing on what we do best Ensuring we have robust governance processes in place is one of the important aspects of my role as your chairman.
Dear shareholder 2013 was a year of progress for Debenhams in many ways.
Despite an extremely difficult trading environment, we focused on what we do best: giving our customers outstanding, innovative products and excellent service across all channels and geographies.
As a result, we achieved increases in like-for-like sales and market share as well as growth in earnings per share.
Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements Overview Strategy Financial review 3 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 One of the most exciting projects undertaken in 2013 was the transformation of Oxford December 2013 marks Street into our international flagship store read more about this on page 10.
The work will be completed during the first half of the 2014 financial year, in time for peak trading.
the bicentenary of the I would encourage everyone who has the opportunity to visit the store to do so.
The Debenhams name store modernisation programme has also continued elsewhere in the UK estate in line with our aspiration for all our customers to have a modern and contemporary place appearing on the British to shop.
high street... We have Amongst the many benefits that we believe the transformed Oxford Street will bring endured by focusing is its role as a beacon for international expansion.
Debenhams is one of very few department store concepts that has translated successfully into international markets.
on our customers and In 2013, international sales accounted for nearly 19% of Group gross transaction value and we expect this to continue to grow in future years.
anticipating and adapting Capital allocation continues to be an important issue for both the board and our to their needs.
We have clear priorities for cash, the first of which is to invest in the business to deliver long-term, sustainable growth and you can read more about our capital expenditure in 2013 on page 40.
Our second priority is the dividend and the board has recommended a final dividend for 2013 of 2.4p, taking the total dividend for the year to 3.4p, an increase of 3%.
Innovation is reflected in every part of our business, whether product development or making shopping easier using multi-channel technology.
This is why we have followed the early adoption of some of the new BIS regulations on corporate reporting where the strategic report is followed by a directors report, a corporate governance report and the remuneration report, which sets out both the remuneration policy and how it has been implemented.
The financial statements follow this section.
Although the regulations come into force after our year end, the demand for more context and a more holistic presentation of a company and its direction is consistent with our commitment to shareholders to operate an integrated and transparent business.
Another change we have made is embedding our approach to sustainability throughout the report to show our commitment to having a sustainable business at every level.
Ensuring we have robust governance processes in place is one of the important aspects of my role as your chairman.
You can read more about this in the corporate governance report starting on page 58.
During 2013 we were delighted to welcome two new non-executive directors to the board.
Peter Fitzgerald joined us in October 2012 and Stephen Ingham in January 2013.
We have changed the venue for the 2013 Annual General Meeting which will be held on 10 December 2013.
We look forward to welcoming shareholders to our new head office located at 10 Brock Street, Regents Place, London NW1 3FG.
We moved in August and are already seeing benefits of having all our head office colleagues located in one purpose-built office for the first time.
Committed to December 2013 marks the bicentenary of the Debenhams name appearing on the good governance British high street.
During those 200 years our business has operated under many At Debenhams we are committed different structures and a myriad of different market conditions.
Debenhams has to high standards of corporate endured by focusing on our customers and anticipating and adapting to their needs.
We believe it is central We can only do this through the hard work and dedication of our people.
As a board to the continued strong performance we do not take for granted the supreme effort that they make every day, especially of the business in a manner which is in the difficult market conditions we have faced in the past couple of years.
We thank sustainable over the long-term and each of them for the contribution they have made to Debenhams in the past year to maintaining the confidence of and look forward to success in 2014. our shareholders.
For us, good governance is about Nigel Northridge responsible and effective management Chairman of the business in a way which demonstrates honesty, transparency and accountability.
See P55 for the Chairmans introduction to governance.
