06 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Business Chairmans Statement Delivering Growth in Our Focus with Vetoryl continuing to grow at 11.6% and Therapeutic Areas in Europe Felimazole at 16.3%.
Our European Pharmaceuticals Segment continues to show progress and achieved During the year, Dechra Veterinary Products sales of 168.7 million, an increase of 66.3% US continued to invest in and build its sales at constant exchange rates CER over the team in order to reinforce its marketing previous year.
On a like-for-like basis, adjusting activities and further strengthen relationships 2012 to include a full year of Eurovet revenue, with veterinarians.
As a result the operating growth is 5%, despite having been affected profit for this Segment was slightly down at by slow trading in the third quarter due to bad 5.6 million compared to 5.9 million in 2012. weather, as previously reported.
Importantly, on a like-for-like basis all key therapeutic areas Strategic Divestment of the Services Segment delivered a good performance: The divestment of our Services Segment, completed post year end on 16 August 2013, Our focus companion animal products represents a further step in the Board strategy performed very well increasing by 18.4% to create a focused pure play specialist at CER, with our key products Vetoryl, veterinary pharmaceuticals business.
The Felimazole and Cardisure delivering Board believes that the Pharmaceuticals double digit revenue growth.
businesses are higher margin, cash generative Despite a challenging environment for businesses, operating in a global market with our food producing animal products, attractive long term growth prospects.
caused principally by pressure to reduce antimicrobials usage due to concerns over The net proceeds of the disposal will be increasing resistance, we saw modest sales used initially to reduce Groups debt but growth of our key water soluble antibiotics.
provides the Group with additional resources Total sales for key products in this category to continue its development, both organically remained flat due to competition issues on and through strategic acquisitions.
Cyclospray an aerosol for cattle foot rot.
Increased Investment in Research and Diets grew by 2.6% at CER driven by the Development R&D relaunch of our new wet diet presentation In 2013 our Development and Regulatory and a new intensive support diet for team achieved approvals for: animals post-surgery.
The results reflect the successful integration three new products: of Eurovet.
This acquisition has met our three line extensions: and expectations, expanding our geographical footprint in Europe, adding complementary three existing products licensed into new Michael Redmond products to our companion animal product territories.
Non-Executive Chairman portfolio, providing an entrance into the food At the same time, development of our novel and producing animal market and increasing our generic products continued: four projects have manufacturing capabilities.
now reached the clinical phase of development.
We will also file imminetly in the UK and the US Operating profit for the European for a new equine product.
Pharmaceuticals Segment increased to 45.8 million from 28.9 million in the As a specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals prior year.
business, the Board has decided to increase the Groups focus and investment in R&D as a key Strong US Core Performance driver of future growth and profitability.
Revenues in the US totalled 20.5 million, growth of 4.7% at CER compared to the Net Debt prior year.
Third party supply issues on our As expected our net borrowing position ophthalmic and dermatology ranges hampered at the end of the financial year improved the US performance, as previously described in compared to 2012, reducing from 86.7 our trading update on 10 July 2013.
adjusting for these unexpected circumstances, the core sales growth was 10.3% at CER 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 07 www.
com Stock code: DPH This has been a transformational year for Dechra.
The disposal of the Services Segment represents a major step forward in the Boards strategy to create a specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals business.
We expect the quality of the Groups business and its prospects to be Above: enhanced as a result of Visual vials inspection at DPM, Skipton the disposal.
Dividend We will continue to refine our strategy for the Subject to Shareholder approval at the continuing Group in the next financial year.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting on The Board remains committed to building Read more about 08 Reasons to Invest 17 October 2013, the Board is proposing a cash generative specialist veterinary a final dividend of 9.66 pence per share, pharmaceuticals business which will: reflecting underlying EPS growth, and bringing the total dividend per share to 14.00 expand our geographical footprint: pence for the financial year ended 2013. maximising opportunities with our existing The proposed final dividend shall be paid on products: and 22 November 2013 to Shareholders on the Register on the Register at 8 November 2013. advancing and deliver our promising The shares will become ex-dividend on pipeline.
Current trading is ahead of last year and in line with managements expectations.
Prospects The Board is confident that the Group will The divestment will enable management to continue to perform well despite a challenging focus exclusively on the areas of the business environment and that our strategy will deliver with the strongest margin, cash conversion enhanced Shareholder value.
We intend to increase our focus on and investment in Research and Development to ensure the value of our pipeline is delivered and we continue to assess selective, strategic acquisitions which would add new products or geographies.
Michael Redmond Non-Executive Chairman 3 September 2013 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3
