I 2 3 4 Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Steve Hannam Devro made considerable progress in 2013, despite a more difficult trading background, as we completed DURING THE YEAR, WE MADE MAJOR the upgrade at our world-class facility in the Czech Republic and established the programme of NEW INVESTMENT DECISIONS WHICH investment at our plant in the USA.
In addition, WILL FURTHER DEVELOP OUR GLOBAL we have now announced plans to invest 50 million to build a manufacturing plant in China.
investments will ensure Devro is in a strong position to benefit from the significant opportunities in the growing global casings market, and the increase in the dividend reflects the Boards confidence in the groups strategy and its future prospects.
Financial highlights Profits were maintained despite, as previously announced, a number of challenges during the first half of 2013, including slow demand in some of our key markets, manufacturing issues in the USA and a sharp rise in raw material costs.
However, in the last six months of the year Devro achieved an uplift in earnings.
Although sales were slightly behind prior year levels, we benefitted from price increases introduced earlier in the year and also from some stability returning to the market for hides, our main raw material.
Production volumes increased by a further 11% compared to 2012, generating improved profitability whilst enabling us to build inventories ahead of the current year.
Earnings per share for the year has shown growth over the past six years, with an increased proportion of group profits now coming from the Czech Republic, where we benefit from a relatively low tax rate.
Strategic outlook During the year, we concluded a review of our five-year plan and made major new investment decisions which will further develop our global manufacturing footprint.
This will better position the business for continued growth for the future.
Over the past three years Devro has invested 70 million in upgrading technology and creating 20% additional capacity.
We are now moving into a new phase of targeted strategic investments to reduce our manufacturing cost per unit and to extend our reach into emerging markets.
In November 2013 we announced a 40 million investment at our plant in South Carolina, USA, in order to reduce manufacturing costs from 2016, with full benefits of c. 8 million per annum from 2017.
The project is progressing well with the relevant permits now approved, contracts for the civil work signed and plans to break ground this month.
16 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 On 4 March 2014 we announced that we have At the AGM in April I shall have completed five approved plans to establish a manufacturing plant years as Chairman of Devro plc.
During this period in China, which is now the worlds biggest collagen we have seen a recovery in the business, an casing market.
We will build a new facility in Nantong, upgrading and expansion of manufacturing, the near Shanghai, with work planned to start in the launch of new products, the strengthening of the first half of 2014.
This investment of 50 million Board and a further increase in the professionalism over two years will see commissioning during of the company.
Our recently completed five-year 2015, with space to expand in line with future plan has established the foundations on which we market demand.
will build an exciting future for Devro.
Personal circumstances dictate that this is an appropriate These two projects represent an unprecedented time for me to stand down as Chairman and level of investment for Devro and demonstrate both I shall relinquish the post as soon as a suitable the Boards confidence in the opportunities before replacement can be appointed.
Paul Neep, as us, and the companys ability to address them.
Senior Independent Director, is leading the search process and an announcement will be made once Dividend the new Chairman has been appointed.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 6.10p per share 2012: 5.85p bringing the total for the Outlook year to 8.8p per share 2012: 8.5p, an increase of We expect growth in total sales in 2014, particularly 4%.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual in Germany, China, Japan and parts of Latin General Meeting AGM in April, the dividend will America.
The outlook for other important markets, be paid on 16 May 2014 to those on the register such as the UK, Russia, USA and Australasia, is less on 28 March 2014. clear.
In order to limit any further increase in the inventory levels that had been increased during Employees 2013 in anticipation of stronger demand in 2014, Our employees are key to Devros success and, Devro will lower production volumes during the on behalf of the whole Board, I pay tribute to them year to balance short-term supply and demand.
and thank them for their efforts across our global business.
The challenges of 2013, and the changes Currency is also likely to have a negative impact across the group, required considerable on results in 2014 with the strengthening of sterling commitment from our people.
If the 2013 operating profits had been translated at current exchange I believe that Devro has a highly skilled, motivated rates they would have been approximately workforce ambitious for future success.
we use this talent pool and have the right resources in place as the company grows, we are continuing Looking further forward the Board remains confident our programme of employee development.
in the opportunity for supplying a dynamic and growing global market for edible casings.
Our Board major capital investment programme involves In July 2013, we strengthened the Board further installing high-technology equipment in the USA with the appointment of Gerard Hoetmer as a to reduce manufacturing costs and building new Non-Executive Director.
A Dutch national, Gerard capacity in China to supply a significant part of brings a wealth of experience of the international the global market.
These projects will progress food sector.
our plan to transform Devros global manufacturing footprint and, together with our investment in Our Senior Independent Director, Paul Neep, research & development and people, will position was appointed in 2005 and therefore has served us well to compete in the market and create as a director for nine years.
The UK Corporate long-term growth.
Governance Code requires that Pauls independence is confirmed by the rest of the Board, if he is to continue as an Independent Director.
This they have done and we are delighted that Paul will continue his valuable service to the group.
Steve Hannam Chairman Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 17
