Chairmans statement For major consumer companies with global footprints, business conditions remain challenging and volatile.
In the past 12 months, we have seen uneven performances in a few of our emerging markets, with the same demographic trends that drive the demand for international consumer goods also fuelling demands for government action to address local social and political controversies.
The result can be controversial legislation or social unrest or both.
Add in the impact, for some countries, of natural disasters and the fact that national infrastructures are often still work-in-progress and there is Global volume share of premium spirits % a recipe for short term unpredictability financial and social which we should Impact Databank, February 2013 in the faster growing economies.
As a business engaged Despite this reality, your board is in the alcoholic drinks sector, we are Diageo 27% confident in Diageos capacity to build acutely aware of the need to meet these a business with outstanding obligations in the most responsible way Company 2 17% performance.
This year we have made possible.
We adhere to an exacting an historic move into the large Indian marketing code and we encourage Company 3 10% spirits market through our acquisition ourindustry colleagues of all sizes to do Company 4 6% of a stake in United Spirits Limited.
We have extended our involvement in Company 5 6% We also believe that it is essential to Sichuan Shuijingfang Co. Ltd. in China, have equally high standards of conduct and we have also put down strong in our relationships with government Other 34% roots in the other businesses we and regulators at all levels.
We take these acquired in Brazil, Ethiopia, Vietnam standards with us when we acquire new and Turkey.
We are working to ensure In our traditional core spirits and they continue to be applied across our beer business we continued to see expanded businesses in Brazil, China, outstanding performance in North Ethiopia and Turkey, and we will do so America, across much of Latin America in India in the year to come.
and in Russia and Eastern Europe.
Our In markets new and old we also Africa business remains strong and full have a profound belief in our need of potential.
In Asia Pacific, we continued toput something back.
We run to face difficulties in Korea and had responsible drinking programmes uneven performance elsewhere in the which touch millions of lives around region, but the prospects remain theworld.
Our Learning for Life exciting.
Western Europe continues to programmes have taught skills in the offer significant challenges.
hospitality industry to more than 70,000 There is no doubt that the climate people in Latin America and are now of public opinion in which we operate being rolled out in North America and has become more difficult.
Our Water of Life programmes and purpose of corporations continue bring clean drinking water to over a to be questioned by governments, million people in Africa every year.
interest groups and individual Weare doing important work with the consumers worldwide.
Much of this farmers who supply our raw materials in debate revolves around the obligations Central and South America and in Africa we have to the people of the nations and with female entrepreneurs in Asia.
in which we trade and the contribution 8 Diageo Annual Report 2013 We are strongly committed to the with Paul on all of the major strategic rights of business to trade free of moves of the past decade and is the We also have a profound onerous restrictions and of consumers right person to take us into the next belief in our need to put to enjoy our products responsibly.
We run But those rights can only be I must also thank Todd Stitzer who responsible drinking guaranteed if we recognise our role steps down from the board after programmes which touch in setting standards and leading our nine years.
Todd has been a very millions of lives around the peers.
For the past 13 years, we have important and influential figure in world.
Our Learning for Life been very fortunate to enjoy the our deliberations and he will be programmes have taught leadership of Paul Walsh as our Chief much missed.
skills in the hospitality Executive.
He fashioned Diageo into I believe it is a mark of this industry to more than one of the most admired companies remarkable business that we have such 70,000 people in Latin in the world.
He did so through a accomplished colleagues and continue America and are now being combination of wisdom, clear thinking to attract them as others leave the rolled out in North America and courage.
It has been a pleasure stage.
It is yet another reason to share and Scotland.
Our Water to work in partnership with him and the great confidence your board has of Life programmes bring I speak for all my Diageo colleagues in the future of our company.
clean drinking water to over when I wish him very well in the future.
a million people in Africa Paul remains an advisor to your board every year.
He will be a hard act to follow, but I know that his Dr Franz B Humer, successor, Ivan Menezes, will do so Chairman with aplomb.
He has worked closely Diageo share price performance Diageo share price movement re-based to 100 FTSE 100 movement re-based to 100 Share price GBp 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Source: Bloomberg Performance summary 9
