Directors Report Business Overview Chairmans Statement Our underlying Group profit before tax of 94.5 million was When I last reported to you I highlighted that we remained relentlessly focused on two goals continuously improving a good overall performance, but the Group is capable of our offer to customers while at the same time strengthening more.
While Dixons Retail has made significant progress since it embarked on the Renewal and Transformation plan our business in the long term interests of shareholders.
I am pleased to report that we have had a year of good in 2008 there remains further work to be done.
The strong progress in Dixons Retail on both fronts: performances in the UK & Ireland and Nordics businesses has enabled these businesses together to deliver on our Our improving offer for customers is working as we see our target of 3-4% return on sales and we need to consolidate this.
We must continue to work on improving or resolving key businesses strengthen their standing in each of their the performances in Southern Europe and PIXmania to markets.
enable the Group to make better progress on overall EBIT We have strengthened our balance sheet through both performance.
As we continue to work on this we have the external debt markets as well as through improving incurred non-underlying charges of 209.8 million, resulting cash generation.
in a Group statutory pre-tax loss of 115.3 million.
And I am pleased that these actions have started to be The Group continues to make good progress on generating reflected in the overall value of our shares.
cash enabling us to reduce steadily net debt and restructure our external borrowing facilities.
Following a The economic environment continues to remain challenging successful new bond issue in September 2012, we have a across Europe, but a continuous focus on the customer better balance of external debt facilities, a more appropriate is enabling us to strengthen our position in key markets, maturity profile, as well as a strengthened balance sheet.
particularly as the competitor landscape consolidates.
Building on the Renewal and Transformation plan, During the year the Group continued to raise money for Sebastian James has, in his first full year as Group Chief various charities in the countries in which our businesses Executive, set the business on a clear path to delivering operate.
In the UK, our colleagues raised an impressive a sustainable business for the long term.
We are building 100,000 for Children in Need in a very busy four weeks.
a blueprint model for how a leading specialist electrical In the Nordics, we raised NOK 3.75 million in support of retailing and services company should operate.
the Red Cross water for life campaign.
We continue to review how we can provide greater support and access to In the UK & Ireland, Katie Bickerstaffe has tirelessly technology for disadvantaged children and their families.
driven the business forward since taking the reins at the beginning of 2012.
Impressive customer satisfaction Rita Clifton retired from the Board after nine years as a measures continue to be delivered day in and day out by non-executive director.
I would like to thank her for her all our colleagues in store, in the call centre and in our considerable contribution in that time.
I am also pleased delivery and services networks, for which they must be to welcome Andrea Gisle Joosen to the Board.
She brings congratulated, and which are key to building a business to with her a wealth of business experience in the consumer which customers and suppliers continue to return.
electronics sector and an in-depth knowledge of the Nordic region.
Our business in Northern Europe had another strong year as it further consolidates its position in each of its markets.
The Board, through its various committees, ensures that This year we welcomed Jaan Ivar Semlitsch as Managing the requisite controls are in place across the business and Director of Northern Europe and he brings a wealth of that the highest possible principles of corporate governance experience in retail.
He is already starting to have a positive are adhered to.
impact on the business and in developing best practice across the Group.
In the year ahead we are not anticipating any help from the economic environments of the markets in which we Our operations across Southern Europe continue to operate, but our model is proving to be a winner in its experience challenging economic environments.
We remain confident that our single-minded solid business in Greece, but need to continue to move our focus on getting the customer offer right while continuing Italian and Turkish businesses on to more stable financial to improve our efficiency will ensure we can continue to footings.
PIXmania continues to experience challenges, but I am I would like to thank all our colleagues and congratulate pleased that Sebastian swiftly started action once we took the leadership team for their successful efforts over the last full control of the business in August.
year and I am sure they will work equally hard to achieve further success in the year ahead.
Our services business, KNOWHOW, has had another good year and I am pleased that we are now starting to embed some of its elements more widely across the Group with in-store clinics in Greece, Italy and Denmark being rolled out.
John Allan Chairman Dixons Retail plc 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
