4 Chairmans statement Further progress and an increase in dividends.
I am pleased to report further progress to the view that our investment has been of the Group during 2013.
This has been increased by 8 per cent to 335.7 million, treated as a one-off cost in the year.
underlying pre-tax profits were 53.0 million and net cash inflow from operating The strong balance sheet and cash activities before tax was 54.9 million.
generation of the Group has allowed us to sustain the progressive improvement in We have continued to invest in people, dividends.
This year the Board is proposing in particular expanding our capabilities a final dividend of 14.06 pence per share in the digital printing business, and in our which when added to the interim dividend product range.
Research and Development of 7.60 pence represents an increase of Peter Byrom expenditure was increased to 19.5 5 per cent for the year as a whole.
Chairman million and we successfully introduced a number of new products including Over the course of the year the Board the N-Series digital label press.
and its committees have addressed the corporate governance requirements arising The performance of TEN Media has from changes to regulations.
In this report been a major disappointment to us.
we present our first Strategic Report on Delays in the business coupled with the business and increased disclosures on uncertainty about its future have led us matters affecting audit and remuneration.
Domino is a global Dominos latest facility in Cambridge, UK for the business with Digital Printing commercial and technical operations.
operations in all regions of the world Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 5 Strategic report Earlier this year Garry Havens announced Our recent order intake provides tentative his retirement from the Group and will signs that market conditions are improving.
step down from the Board in December While we remain cautious about the prospects 2013.
I would like to thank Garry for for a full recovery to historical levels of global his contribution to the Group.
GDP growth, we are optimistic that our investments in new products and capabilities Phil Ruffles has announced that he does coupled with emerging market opportunities not intend to stand for re-election at will fuel stronger organic sales growth in 2014. the next Annual General Meeting on 19 We are continuing to invest in the business, March 2014.
Phil has served as a Nonimproving our prospects for the future.
Executive Director for 11 years and I have appreciated his considerable contribution Research and to the Group over this period.
Development expenditure was Peter Byrom increased to a new record Chairman level of 19.5 million and we 11 December 2013 successfully introduced a number of new products including the N-Series digital label press Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
