Chairmans statement Key highlights System sales 14% 1 2012 : 10.5% New stores 57 2012: 69 UK like-for-like growth 7.0% 1 2012 : 5.2% In 2013 our UK strategy has continued to deliver very powerful growth.
The Republic of Ireland has shown real recovery and we have started to implement a new strategy for Germany.
1 Throughout the Strategic Report the 2012 system sales and like-for-like figures have been adjusted to represent a 52-week comparative by excluding the first trading week of the 2012 financial year, however, all income statement and balance sheet related comparisons are for the 53 weeks ended 30 December 2012.
04 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Our Swiss business, which we purchased in September 2012, is I am pleased to have another strong set of on track to reach profit by late 2014 early 2015.
The team there results to share with you.
The Group has is making great progress.
again delivered very solid profit before tax It remains for me to say two important goodbyes: and exceptional items of 47.6m, representing Chief Executive Officer, Lance Batchelor, joined the Dominos excellent growth in the core markets of the board in July 2010, initially as a Non-Executive Director.
In June 2011 he moved across to become deputy Chief Executive Officer, UK and Republic of Ireland of 11.6% on last stepping up to Chief Executive Officer in December.
This was partially offset by announced his resignation, leaving us in March 2014 to take up a higher than anticipated losses in Germany new role.
Lances tenure has been marked by a strong uplift in our UK like-for-likes, a deeper move into web and mobile sales and of 7.0m.
marketing, and a very strong new product pipeline.
I would like to take this chance to thank him for all he has contributed and wish At the heart of the Groups story in 2013 is some very powerful him well.
We are currently busy recruiting his successor, and I have growth in our core UK market, where like-for-like sales growth 1 no doubt we will attract a top-class Chief Executive Officer to run accelerated to 7.0% 2012 : 5.2%, surely one of the strongest this wonderful Group.
growth stories on the UK high street.
This strong performance was driven by a broad blend of activities, including: investment During the interval between Chief Executive Officers, our into digital sales, smart use of SMS marketing, strong new product Non-Executive Director, David Wild, has agreed to step up development and targeted incentives for franchisees to accelerate and act as Interim Chief Executive.
David is an experienced their order counts.
Chief Executive Officer himself and will be a very safe pair of hands.
I will be working closely with David to ensure our strategy The Republic of Ireland ROI has at last shown some real is delivered without any pause.
recovery and we are delighted that our strategy of working with franchisees to support them through difficult times appears to be Chief Financial Officer, Lee Ginsberg, joined Dominos in 2004, bearing fruit.
During the sharp recession in Ireland no stores were and has therefore been part of our story for over a decade.
He closed as a result of the franchisees skill and determination along has now decided to retire and take up a portfolio of roles.
Lee has with some financial support from us.
been an integral part of the remarkable Dominos success story, working with three Chief Executive Officers to take the market The strong volume growth plays well to the Groups operational capitalisation of the Group from 105m to todays 800m.
As volume grows, we extract improved returns from our a very strong and well-deserved reputation within the investment investments in Supply Chain Centre formerly known as community, demonstrating an intimate understanding of the business commissary capacity and procurement.
I would like to sincerely thank Lee for the huge part he has important metric of UK & ROIs adjusted profit before tax to played in the helping the Group grow.
I am pleased to welcome Sean Wilkins as our new Chief Financial Germany has been a difficult experience for us during 2013.
Sean came to us from Coles in Australia and, before that, initial strategy of rapid store expansion to achieve critical mass early Tesco.
He joined us in November and is now fully immersed in the resulted in unacceptably high losses including large impairments of business, demonstrating good understanding of our unique business assets in Germany.
This strategy was revised mid year as we started model and rapidly developing strong relationships both within the to transition our corporate stores across to franchisees and slow Dominos family and with our investors.
I am confident Sean will expansion until solid store level economics have been established.
be a major asset to the next stage of Dominos development.
This follows the pattern in the UK, successfully executed in the 1990s.
This process is now well under way and I expect we will see Finally let me thank our franchisees and staff for all they do to transitioned stores start to pick up sales momentum in the coming make Dominos the leading pizza delivery company in the world.
months and the corporate losses start to decline.
Day and night they are out there, focused on product, service and image, always seeking to ensure customers get what they want I remain an optimist on the long-term prospects for our German and I am grateful to them all.
At a local level we have seen that a good store, operated by a strong franchisee, can achieve order levels not far short of the UK levels.
Over the coming year we will concentrate on driving Stephen Hemsley more stores up to this critical stage, before accelerating our store opening process.
Chairman 28 February 2014 We have also taken the decision to purchase the remaining 25% of the German business from our non-controlling interest partner.
This will simplify the operation of this business and is a sensible deal for Dominos shareholders, giving 100% ownership and the Group full control over how we implement our plans for the future.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 05
