Drax Group plc 14 Annual report and accounts 2013 Chairmans introduction Significant progress for the Group Providing electricity from sustainable biomass has great potentialand it has an important role as a low carbon, cost-effective and reliable renewable technology in the futureenergy mix of the UK.
Charles Berry Chairman Drax Group plc 15 Annual report and accounts 2013 In perspective Earnings and dividend The Board and governance 1 Our commitment to becoming a Our earnings EBITDA for the year We have an effective Board with leading provider of sustainable power wereslightly ahead of expectations goodand complementary skills, is stronger than ever.
knowledge and experience across made significant progress in this alldirectors, both executive and These are lower than in 2012 respect during 2013, from starting the non-executive.
The Board takes 298 million reflecting the increasing construction of wood pellet plant and theleadin setting the tone for good costs of carbon 120 million, driven by port facilities in the US, through the governance throughout the Group.
the introduction of the UK governments conversion of our first generating unit at As a Board we ensure that our carbon price support mechanism from Drax Power Station to burn sustainable conduct is focused on improving 1 April 2013 and the removal of free biomass in place of coal, to increasing our business, driving our strategic allowances under the EU ETS.
sales of renewable power to business priorities, and behaving responsibly.
In accordance with our dividend policy, Issues such as succession planning, the Board proposes a final dividend in career development and diversity The energy sector faces many respect of 2013 of 8.9 pence per share, arekept under review as a matter challenges.
Whether concerns centre equivalent to 36 million.
This would give of course.
on security of supply, affordability or total dividends for the year of 71 million decarbonisation, as a Group we are More information can be found in 2012: 97 million.
pleased to say that we are working hard the Governance section of the report to provide power which is secure and starting on page 64. reliable, cost-effective and low carbon.
Corporate reporting The regulatory framework which shapes During 2013, a number of changes Our people the UK energy industry fully recognises were introduced to the legislation the valuable and strategic role that We report on a year that has seen and regulations governing reporting sustainable biomass has to play in the unprecedented change across the requirements.
The approach we energy mix.
Significant achievements have adopted over recent years that framework will unlock the potential havebeen made by our people and satisfies manyof the new disclosure of this new and vibrant biomass my sincere thanks go to all Group requirements.
Nevertheless, we have industry and promote growth through stafffor their tireless commitment incorporated new features in this investment and job creation.
Annualreport and accounts which Our achievements in 2013 position us enhance some aspects, such as well to secure an attractive future for greenhouse gas emissions reporting, ourbusiness and our shareholders.
which can be found on page 51 and introduce others in our Governance We are firmly on track to deliver the section starting on page 64.
Charles Berry many benefits that biomass has to Chairman offeras an energy source.
18 February 2014 1 EBITDA is defined as profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
