Strategic report Chairmans statement Chairmans introduction Customers easyJets customer proposition consists of a network of convenient airports, our friendly service, website and mobile app and industry leading on-time performance, all of which we have continued to deliver in the year to a high standard.
We have also improved our proposition by the addition of 25 new routes and the introduction of allocated seating.
The rollout of this has been a great success, with good feedback from customers and achieved without compromising on-time performance.
Regulation The regulatory environment continues to have a significant impact on easyJet and whilst there has been progress in some areas such as airspace costs and increased competition on restricted routes, there continues to be protectionism such as state subsidy of failing carriers.
Thus easyJet continues to work constructively with governments and regulators to build a regulatory framework for aviation which rewards efficient behaviour.
In particular the European Commission needs to create and enforce a system of legislation that ensures a full and fair competitive environment John Barton DEAR SHAREHOLDER for airports, airlines and ground handlers.
easyJet Non-Executive welcomes the Davies Commission as it is clear Chairman I am pleased to report that your Company that the UK needs a coherent roadmap for aviation continued to deliver an exceptionally strong capacity, however any future investment needs to performance with pre-tax profits growing by be cost effective and not subsidised by passengers.
People Platform for future success As a frequent traveller on easyJet, I was delighted The Companys platform for future success was to be given the opportunity to become the also secured as our shareholders approved a ten Companys Chairman.
The Companys performance year eet framework arrangement with Airbus.
over the past few years has been remarkable.
This deal will enable easyJet to continue to grow For that, we owe much thanks to Mike Rake, profitably and will be a significant platform of our my predecessor, but also Carolyn McCall, her ability to continue to be competitive on cost and management team and the hard work, commitment therefore fares.
As we said in June, when we and loyalty of all the people at easyJet.
announced our eet decision, the deal will be Conclusion funded without recourse to shareholders.
easyJets leading European network and cost Returns to shareholders advantage combined with a disciplined approach The Board is proposing an ordinary dividend of to use of capital means that it is well placed to 33.5 pence per share, due to the strong performance continue to make travel easy and affordable for of the business in the year, and a special dividend of customers and generate sustainable returns and 44.1 pence per share.
Thus the Board is proposing to growth for shareholders.
return 308 million to shareholders, an increase of 262% over the dividend paid last year.
John Barton Non-Executive Chairman easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 8
