CHAIRMANS STATEMENT renting material volumes of gas-fuelled generators developed for the Power Projects business, and has won its first contracts for our new Heavy Fuel Oil engines.
We knew at the beginning of the year that trading would be difficult in Power Projects: the run-down in our contracts for the US Military and in Japan was compounded by a weaker macro-economic environment in emerging markets.
But there was good progress on many fronts: we launched our world-leading G3 generators and the unique G3 HFO: we ramped up our re-build and conversion capability to 10 units Ken Hanna Chairman a week: and our power-plant in Mozambique, which is the largest of its type in the world, is delivering 229MW to Namibia, South Africa and Mozambique.
INTRODUCTION A feature of our business model and capital expenditure After nine consecutive years of growth, during which discipline is that in a period of weaker demand the Aggrekos trading profits increased at a compound business delivers very strong cash generation.
Net cash rate of 28%, 2013 proved to be a challenging year.
inflow from operations increased by 26% to 603 million A number of factors contributed to this: weaker market 2012: 479 million, which funded reduced total capital conditions in our Power Projects business: comparatives expenditure of 228 million 2012: 440 million.
with an exceptionally strong 2012, which included the As a result, net debt of 363 million at 31 December London Olympics as well as peak revenues from 2013 was 230 million lower than the prior year.
Military work in Afghanistan and post-Fukushima Japan reconstruction: and weakening exchange rates.
Our financial position continues to be very strong Against these headwinds, Aggreko delivered a with net debt to EBITDA Earnings before Interest creditable performance, with reported revenue at Tax Depreciation and Amortisation of 0.6 times similar levels to 2012 and the decline in reported 2012: 0.9 times at 31 December 2013, compared trading profit was contained to 8%.
Reported profit to our bank covenant of 3 times.
Interest cover, before tax decreased by 8% to 333 million 2012: measured on an EBITDA basis, is at 26 times 2012: 360 million and diluted earnings per share also 25 times, far ahead of our covenant of 4 times.
1 DIVIDEND On an underlying basis which excludes the impact of the London Olympics, the Poit Energia acquisition, The Board is recommending a 10% increase in the 2 pass-through fuel and currency movements revenue dividend for the year as a whole: this will comprise a increased 4% and trading profit increased 1%.
final dividend of 17.19 pence per ordinary share which, when added to the interim dividend of 9.11 pence, Our Local business had a strong year: excluding the gives a total for the year of 26.30 pence.
At this level, 2012 Olympics, average megawatts of power were up the dividend would be covered 3.5 times 2012: 9% driven largely by our strategy of expanding in 4.2 times, which is in line with our declared policy emerging markets.
We opened a further eight service of reducing cover towards 3 times over time.
Subject centres and offices and successfully completed the to approval by shareholders, the final dividend will be integration of the Poit acquisition in Brazil.
Our paid on 27 May 2014 to ordinary shareholders on the strategy of driving closer links between Power Projects register as at 25 April 2014, with an ex-dividend date and the Local business has brought many benefits: of 23 April 2014. by the end of the year we had over 260MW of miniprojects on rent: fleet was also transferred from Power Projects to the Local business, saving us capex: and from a product perspective, the Local business is now 4 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT ADDITIONAL RETURN TO SHAREHOLDERS STRATEGY As set out in our Strategy Review, presented to We review our strategy on a regular basis.
Every five investors in March 2013, we believe that under normal years we do a fundamental review of all our business trading conditions an appropriate level of gearing for segments with the results of these quinquennial the business is around 1 times net debt to EBITDA.
reviews having been presented to investors at our full At this level the Company retains flexibility to react to year results in 2004, 2008 and 2013.
The 2013 review opportunities for fleet investment and normal course confirmed that the targets set out in our 2008 review acquisitions, and also ensures that the business does had all been exceeded: that looking ahead there were not hold on to cash it does not need.
This gearing numerous opportunities for growth in both the Local level is a guide, but our policy is that, in the event and Power Projects business: and that our product and that the gearing level materially falls below 1 times, service offering was highly competitive.
A detailed we will consider supplementing the ordinary dividend description of our strategy is set out in the Strategy with additional returns of value to shareholders.
section of the Annual Report, but, in summary, we said that over the five years to 2018 we should be able With the strong cash generation seen during the to achieve, on average and subject to year-on-year 3 year, our net debt at the end of 2013 has fallen to variation, double-digit rates of growth in revenues, 363 million which is 0.6 times our 2013 EBITDA of with margins and returns on capital in excess of 20%.
636 million: accordingly the Board believes that it is On the basis used for the Strategy Review, 2013 appropriate to supplement the ordinary dividend with Group revenues were 6% higher than the prior year, an additional return to shareholders of approximately trading margin was 22% and return on capital 200 million, which would result in adjusted net debt employed was 21%.
at the end of 2013 being 563 million or 0.9 times 2013 EBITDA.
Subject to shareholder approval, each BOARD shareholder will receive a return of value of 75 pence On 28 February we announced that, after 11 very in respect of each existing ordinary share they hold successful years as Group Chief Executive, Rupert on 27 May 2014.
Soames has tendered his resignation from the Group to enable him to take up a new role as CEO of Serco As was the case in our previous return of value in 2011, Group plc.
He will leave Aggreko after the Annual when shareholders received 149 million 55 pence General Meeting on 24 April 2014. per share, the return will be made by way of a B share scheme, which will give shareholders a choice as to The Board has commenced a process to identify when, and in what form, they receive their proceeds a permanent successor and has appointed Angus from the return of value.
Notably, it should allow most Cockburn, currently Chief Financial Officer, as individual UK taxpayers to receive the return in the Interim CEO from 24 April and Carole Cran, form of a capital receipt, if they so wish.
The B share currently Director of Group Finance, as Interim CFO.
scheme will be accompanied by a share consolidation designed to maintain comparability of share price and Rupert has been an excellent CEO for Aggreko and return per share of the ordinary shares before and after the Group has achieved an enormous amount during the creation of the B shares.
We are delighted that Angus has agreed to become interim CEO whilst we identify a permanent A circular will be sent to shareholders setting out CEO from strong internal and external candidates.
the details of these proposals later in March.
Angus has the support of an extremely capable interim CFO in Carole and an excellent management team, who will continue to drive the business forward.
The Board would like to thank Rupert for the last 11 years and wish him well as he seeks fresh challenges elsewhere.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED On 1 November 2013 we were delighted that addition, we have recently signed a contract in Libya for Ian Marchant joined the Board as a Non-executive 120MW which we would normally have taken into the Director.
Ian was until recently Chief Executive of SSE order book.
However, given the volatile situation in the plc having previously been Finance Director of SSE country, we will not include it in order intake until we and Finance Director of Southern Electric plc.
Ians are certain we will be able to execute it.
Assuming that extensive knowledge of the domestic and international we are able to proceed in Libya, we expect that order energy markets, combined with his substantial finance intake for the first quarter will be at a similar level to background will bring further strength to Aggrekos the final quarter of 2013.
Off-hires in the first quarter Board.
Ian has also been appointed to the Audit are expected to run at a lower rate than has been the Committee and the Ethics Committee.
case for the last few years and our 150MW of diesel contracts in Japan have now been extended until David Hamill has decided to step down from the December 2014.
Whilst this is all welcome, customers Board after this years Annual General Meeting.
in the Power Projects market continue to be cautious, David has served as a Non-executive Director for and at this early stage in the year, so do we.
seven years, most recently as Senior Independent Director.
Davids experience and insight have Overall, since we last reported in December, the proved invaluable to the Board during his tenure, business has performed in line with our expectations.
and he has made a marked contribution to For the full year we expect trading profit to be similar Aggrekos development.
We all wish him well to 2013 on a constant currency basis, as growth in the for the future.
I am pleased to be able to say that Local business is offset by weaker trading in Power Russell King has agreed to succeed him as Senior Projects.
However, the latest spot rates for some of 4 Independent Director.
our major trading currencies have moved against the average exchange rates of 2013: if these rates pertain EMPLOYEES for the rest of the year, we would see a marked On behalf of the Board, I wish to express my sincere translational impact on our 2014 reported results.
thanks to all our colleagues across the Group for their outstanding commitment and support in 2013.
OUTLOOK FOR 2014 The Group has made an encouraging start to 2014.
The Ken Hanna Local business has continued to show good growth with Chairman volumes on rent currently up 7% on the prior year.
In 6 March 2014 Power Projects, year to date order intake is 64MW: in 1 Underlying excludes revenue and trading profits from the London Olympics, the Poit Energia acquisition, pass-through fuel and currency movements.
A bridge between reported and underlying revenues and trading profits is provided at page 46 of the Financial Review.
2 Pass-through fuel relates to three contracts in our Power Projects business where we provide fuel on a pass-through basis.
3 With the base year of 2012 adjusted for Military and Japan revenues and revenues defined as underlying in our 2012 Annual Report being: currency, pass through fuel, the Poit Energia acquisition and The London Olympics.
The difference between this underlying measure and that at footnote 1 is the exclusion of Military and Japan from this measure as that was how the strategy targets were set in 2012.
4 Major currencies are the US Dollar, Euro, Australian dollar, Argentinian Peso and Brazilian Real.
6 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL Large and complex would include: keeping the lights on in entire countries when their existing grid cannot cope with demand by delivering hundreds of megawatts MW of additional power: helping oil refineries to maintain production in hot weather by providing additional cooling and power: and designing and providing critical power infrastructure for broadcasting, security and field-of-play lighting Rupert Soames Chief Executive for major sporting events such as the Olympic Games and the FIFA World Cup.
Simple would include: providing temperature control in an office building after the air-conditioning has broken down: installing chillers to make ice for temporary skating-rinks: and providing a generator for a few days to a power utility while it carries out improvements to transmission lines.
Angus Cockburn Chief Financial Officer The distinguishing features of our business are: The products and services we provide are missioncritical.
Power and temperature control are utility WHAT WE DO AND services without which our customers cannot carry out WHERE WE DO IT their business.
Most customers use our services only occasionally but, when they do, they rely on us to OUR BUSINESS keep their business or even whole cities and countries Aggreko provides power and temperature control functioning and safe.
solutions to customers who need them either quickly, or for a limited period of time.
We have two business We are not exposed to the fortunes of any single models.
In the Local business, we hire our equipment end-user market.
All businesses use power, and to customers who operate it for themselves, although many use temperature control.
Our equipment and we retain responsibility for servicing and maintenance.
services are transferable between end-user segments, In the Power Projects business, we operate as a power so the generator used today in a petrochemical plant producer: we install and operate power plants and our may be on a film set tomorrow and a building site customers pay us for having the generating capacity the day after.
available, as well as the electricity we deliver to them.
This means that we can We do all of this on a global basis and, in 2013, we respond to events as they happen anywhere around served customers in about 100 countries: we run our the world and can move our equipment to wherever business from 202 service centres and offices, located it can deliver the best returns.
The solutions we provide range from the very large and complex to the very simple.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED We are organised to address all types of This is a key competitive advantage: being close to our opportunity, from the rental of a single generator customers means we can be there in an emergency, able for a weekend, to managing huge projects, worth to respond quickly to their needs.
At the same time, as tens of millions of pounds, delivering hundreds a global business, we can use our resources strategically, of MW anywhere in the world.
moving staff and equipment around the world to wherever our customers need them.
We are focused on a very narrow range of products power and temperature control A list of our locations is shown on pages 10 to 11 with and that means we have technical expertise, service centres and offices highlighted in bold having equipment, skills and experience on a scale, and been opened or acquired in the last 5 years.
to a depth, that we believe nobody else can rival.
OUR FLEET We design and manufacture our own fleet, which means that we are able to optimise it for the specific Fleet is at the heart of any rental business.
It is by far requirements of our customers and of the rental the largest tangible asset: it is the core of the service business.
It also means that we can build our own we offer: managing it efficiently is the sine qua non rental fleet more cheaply than our competitors can of any rental business.
The vast majority of large rental companies use We keep our equipment for its useful life, so standard manufacturers products in their fleets: the the better we build, maintain and refurbish the vehicle, hammer-drill or bulldozer you rent is the same equipment, the longer its life will be and the more as the one you can buy.
Aggreko is unique amongst money we make for our shareholders.
We therefore large equipment rental companies in that we design take enormous care to build and maintain our and build the vast majority of our fleet in-house at our equipment to the highest standards and this, in own state-of-the-art development and manufacturing turn, means that our customers see high quality facility.
And we do not sell our equipment to anyone and reliable equipment.
else: our entire design and manufacturing effort is focused on making our fleet, not someone elses, the By developing these competitive advantages, Aggreko most cost-efficient, highest-performing power and has grown over the last 50 years to be the world temperature control rental fleet in the world.
market leader with outstanding people, strong customer relationships, a powerful brand and an We believe that being able to develop and manufacture excellent reputation.
We have also developed a our own fleet is an important competitive advantage, business large enough to enjoy economies of scale, for a number of reasons: which has enabled us to deliver highly attractive returns to shareholders while delivering outstanding First, it means that we can optimise the equipment value and service to our customers.
to meet our particular operational requirements.
Manufacturers of standard generators and temperature OUR LOCATIONS control equipment design their products to be Aggreko has global reach through an international permanent installations, because that is what the network of service centres and offices spanning North vast majority of their customers want: their products and Latin America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, performance will be limited to the regulations and Asia and Australasia.
Our 202 service centres and ambient conditions of the country in which it is to be offices in 49 countries enable us to combine local installed.
An Aggreko generator has a very different knowledge, strong customer relationships and efficient requirement: it will be picked up and put down, logistics to provide excellent service and speed of moved be it by truck, ship or aircraft hundreds of response, while our commitment to managing the times during its working life, and may be required to business and assets on a homogenous and global basis work faultlessly at 50C in the Saudi Arabian desert means that each local service centre can draw on huge and a few weeks later at 40C in Siberia.
This is not a resources to support its customers.
capability that is available in off-the-shelf equipment.
8 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT Second, we design our equipment with the Most rental businesses have a model of buying assets knowledge that we will own it for its operating and then selling them on at a relatively early stage life and the more reliable it is, and the longer it in their useful life.
This minimises maintenance costs lasts, the higher the returns we will make for our and enables them to use income from used fleet sales shareholders.
Given the choice of 6mm steel for a to help finance new equipment purchases.
Because we bed-plate, or 8mm, we choose 10mm, and the result build longevity into our equipment, and failure rates is that our fleet can keep on earning us money for in generators and chillers are more related to how well years.
It is a peculiarity of our business that many they are maintained rather than how old they are, we customers are not concerned with how old a opt for a policy of rigorously maintaining our assets generator or chiller is: their priority is to generate and running them for as long as possible.
This also electricity or produce cold water, and as long as has the important benefit that our business model is the equipment is in good condition, is efficient not exposed to the vagaries of prices achievable in the and reliable, they will pay the same rental rate for used equipment market, which tend to fluctuate with a 10-year-old set as they will for a 1-year-old set.
Third, developing and manufacturing our own fleet Our power fleet is, by our estimates, around 5 times gives us a material cost advantage.
The volume in larger than our nearest competitor: at the end of 2013, which we purchase the key components is significant it comprises around 20,000 generators ranging in size in terms of the overall market, and in some from 10KW to 2MW which, in aggregate, amount to components we are probably the largest buyer in our over 9,500MW of generating capacity.
By designing and manufacturing our own into perspective, out of 233 countries in the world equipment, we can capture for ourselves the benefits we have more generating capacity than 170 of them.
of being a volume purchaser: and, of course, we dont In aggregate, the net asset value of our power fleet have to pay away any margin to another assembler is 914 million, and the original cost carried in our or manufacturer.
On a like-for-like basis we think balance sheet is 1,960 million.
This value includes we have a meaningful cost advantage over our large inventories of transformers, switchgear and competitors: in the larger node-sizes of generators distribution equipment which are essential in we believe we have a cost advantage of between 20% providing our customers with power they can use and 40%.
In a capital-intensive business, that is rather than just a large humming box.
important, and is one of the reasons why our returns on capital are so much higher than competitors.
Our chiller fleet is also much larger than any of our competitors, with over 2,300 units with a total capacity Finally, having our own design and manufacturing of 1,121MW.
The net asset value of our chiller fleet is capability means that we can react extremely quickly 51 million, and the original cost carried in our balance to customer requirements.
We only have to convince sheet is 126 million.
ourselves of the desirability of a particular design feature, not a third party manufacturer.
We are also The rest of our fleet mainly comprises air-conditioners, not driven by suppliers design or manufacturing oil-free air compressors, cooling towers and other choices, and can maintain standardisation in our ancillary equipment with an aggregate net asset value fleet, which in turn allows us to reap benefits of scale.
of 117 million, and the original cost carried in our balance sheet is 287 million.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9 OUR GLOBAL REACH Service centres Service centres that have opened in the last 5 years including those gained as part of an acquisition Europe Le Havre Middle East Australasia Puerto Montt Corpus Christi Pearland Aberdeen Leipzig Abu Dhabi Adelaide Rio fide Janeiro Dallas Phoenix Antwerp Lille Aktau Auckland Santiago Decatur Puerto Rico Barcelona London Dammam Brisbane Denver Richmond Central America Bedford Lyon Doha Darwin Detroit San Antonio Mexico City Berlin Madrid Jebel Ali Emerald Fayetteville San Francisco Bordeaux Manchester Jeddah Kalgoorlie North America Houston Sarnia Bristol Marseilles Manama Karratha Atlanta Jacksonville Shreveport Cannock Milan Muscat Melbourne Baltimore Kansas City St. Louis Doncaster Moerdijk Safat Newcastle Baton Rouge Lake Charles Tampa Dorsten Mulhouse Sharjah Perth Beaumont Las Vegas Toronto Dumbarton Munich Yanbu Sydney Boston Linden Egersund Nantes Townsville Bridgeport Los Angeles Asia Fareham Nuneaton Calvert City Memphis Jakarta South America Frankfurt Oslo Charleston Miami Shanghai Antofagasta Glasgow Paris Chicago Mobile Singapore Campinas Gothenburg Plymouth Chickasha Nashville Caracas Great Yarmouth Port Talbot Africa Cincinnati New Iberia Macae Hamburg Portlaoise Lagos Cleveland New Orleans Manaus Inverness Washington Columbia Oklahoma City 10 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Service centres that have opened Port Elizabeth Buenos Aires Central America Odessa in the last 5 years including those Walvis Bay Camacari Ciudad del Pittsburgh gained as part of an acquisition: Campo Grande Carmen Roosevelt Australasia Concepcion Guadalajara Saskatoon Europe Dalian Christchurch Copiapo Hermosillo Seattle Bucharest Foshan Geraldton Cordoba Monterrey Three Rivers Heinenoord Ho Chi Minh City Gladstone Cuiaba Panama Istanbul Hyderabad Mount Isa Florianopolis Tampico Moscow Kolkata Muswellbrook Goiania Villahermosa Padova Manila New Plymouth Lima Staphorst New Delhi Surat Basin North America Neuquen Warsaw Pune Tauranga Edmonton Parauapebas Seoul Wellington Fort McMurray Middle East Porto Alegre Tokyo Wollongong Fort St. John Baku Recife Vizag Gillette Jubail South America Sao Bernardo Indianapolis Riyadh Africa Belem Sao Luiz Long Island Cape Town Belo Horizonte Sao Matteus Asia Minneapolis Durban Boa Vista Tucuman Bangkok St. Paul Johannesburg Bogota Chennai Minot Nairobi Brasilia Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING LOCAL BUSINESS AND Technology and engineering are not words normally POWER PROJECTS BUSINESS associated with equipment rental companies.
But just as we have garnered competitive advantage from Aggreko is organised around two different business building our own fleet, in recent years we have models.
Whilst they may look different, with very stepped up our investment in underlying technology.
different contract sizes and durations, they share fleet, Most noticeably, we have invested millions of pounds people and infrastructure, and by sharing, each is a adapting the design of our large generator engines better business than it would be standalone.
to deliver better performance and new capability.
We were the first company in the world to develop LOCAL BUSINESS and manufacture in volume 1MW gas generators in Our Local business runs with high volumes of generally 20 foot containers: and, as a result of a multi-million quite low value transactions, providing power or pound, 4-year development programme, we have temperature control equipment to customers when they increased the power output of our 1MW diesel engines either need it in a hurry or for a short period of time.
by 15%, whilst improving fuel consumption by 4%: Aside from major events such as the Olympics where and we have re-engineered the same engines to allow contracts can be worth tens of millions of pounds, them to run on Heavy Fuel Oil.
the average contract value is around 17,000, but the range is from 200 to over 1,000,000.
Although most We have also invested in extending the useful life of of this business is planned in advance, about 25% of our fleet.
Whilst some parts of a generator deteriorate its revenues come from responding to emergencies.
with age, others, such as the engine block, do not, so It is therefore essential to have the capability to deploy we have developed techniques to re-cycle and re-use equipment and people to the customers site within a these long-life components.
Instead of scrapping a matter of hours.
This business operates from 202 service large generator when it reaches the end of its normal centres and offices in North and Latin America, life, we re-build it, replacing the parts that wear, and Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Australasia.
keeping the parts that do not.
By doing this, at the end These service centres look after customers who are of its first life say 25,000 running hours we rebuild normally within a radius of 200 miles, and they offer the engine and effectively get a brand new generator the complete range of our products and services.
for half the cost of buying a new generator.
So far, we have re-built over 1,000 of our large generators Our Local business serves any customer who uses power and this has saved us well over 50 million in fleet and temperature control: butchers, bakers and candlecapital investment.
stick makers: banks, TV manufacturers and film studios: farmers, wineries, utilities and oil companies: miners, Just as important as life-extension is performance armies, navies, air forces and telecoms companies: improvement.
When we re-build a generator, we hairdressers, party planners and major sporting events.
re-engineer it to the latest specification: in 2013 we Anyone who uses power or temperature control in radically improved the power output and fuel efficiency their business is a potential customer.
This makes our of our G3 engines, and enabled them to run on Heavy customer-base diverse both in terms of geography and Fuel Oil as well as diesel: this performance improvement market segment, which is a great advantage as it gives is all retro-fitable to our existing fleet, so at rebuild, us some protection against the vagaries of any one the engines get upgraded.
In 2013 we re-built a total particular market.
And we can quickly move resources of 215 engines to these new specifications bringing to sectors and countries which are growing.
In 2013, the Local business had revenues of 904 million which is 59% of Aggrekos total 1 revenue excluding pass-through fuel.
12 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT POWER PROJECTS Aggreko revenue by geography Excluding pass-through fuel The Power Projects business sells power which we deliver using power plants built, owned and operated by ourselves.
Whereas in the Local business a contract 1 North America 22% with a customer is described in terms of renting 6 2 Europe 14% 1 specified items of equipment for a period of time, most 3 Middle East 10% of the contracts that Power Projects performs are for 4 Africa 16% providing a defined amount of generating capacity, 5 Asia and Australasia 20% 5 2 for which a customer pays a fixed monthly capacity 6 Latin America 18% charge: they then pay, in addition, a variable charge for each MW-hour they take.
Under the terms of 3 4 these contracts, Aggreko is responsible for installing and operating the equipment and the invoice to the Source: Aggreko internal reports customer is for power generation capacity and MW-hours delivered, not equipment rented.
Most Aggreko revenue by customer segment projects in this business are worth over 1 million Excluding pass-through fuel a year and some can be worth very much more than that: in 2013, we invoiced our largest utility customer 11 10 around 83 million.
A typical contract in this business 1 Utilities 42% 12 would be for the rental of 20-50MW for an initial 9 2 Oil and gas 15% 8 period of 6-12 months, which will often be extended.
3 Petrochemical and refining 7% 7 Our power-plants are highly modular, and their 4 Quarrying and mining 6% 1 6 capacity can be flexed in 1MW increments using 5 Manufacturing 5% 5 standard containerised units of our own proprietary 6 Events 4% 4 design, built in our factory in Scotland: importantly, 7 Construction 4% 3 these generators are also in widespread use in the 2 8 Contracting 4% Local business, so fleet can be shared between the two 9 Services 4% businesses.
They use diesel, gas or heavy fuel oil and Source: Aggreko internal reports 10 Military 3% are designed to be easily transportable, reliable and 11 Shipping 2% robust: power projects can arise anywhere in the world 12 Other 4% and the required response time is generally weeks rather than the hours or days needed in the Local business.
To support these projects, we concentrate our fleet in a number of hubs in Central America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
From each hub, large amounts of equipment can be shipped or flown rapidly to wherever it is needed.
Power Projects customers are almost all in emerging markets: 85% of our revenues come from utilities but we also serve governments, armed forces, as well as oil & gas and mining companies.
In 2013, our Power Projects business generated revenues of 627 million, or 41% of Aggrekos 1 total revenue excluding pass-through fuel.
1 Pass-through fuel revenue relates to three contracts in our Power Projects business where we manage the provision of fuel.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT with them, on and off, for about nine years.
Analysts consensus is that their 2013 revenues will be around When customers need power or temperature control $310 million, or 1 8th of Aggrekos revenues.
equipment, they have the choice to buy, lease or rent, and therefore the biggest competitors for our customers In both the Local business and Power Projects, valuable money are not rental companies but equipment economies of scale accrue to those who can operate manufacturers.
The vast majority of chillers and on a global basis.
However, to gain these benefits of generators are permanent installations that customers global scale requires a very long-term commitment to buy or lease: the rental market is therefore only a building distribution, deep technical expertise across relatively small part of the overall supply.
So, in terms a number of disciplines, and a well developed supplyof pricing and service, we always have to be focused chain: it also requires hundreds of millions of pounds on the fact that customers have a choice, not only of capital to fund fleet investment.
Some people have of using other rental companies, but also to buy from the misconception that Aggreko has grown from manufacturers.
The questions in the choice between nothing over a short period of time: to the contrary, buying and renting tend to be speed how quickly do Aggreko was founded some fifty years ago, and it has you need it?
and duration how long do you need taken us five decades, several billion pounds of it for?
Urgency, and or limited duration, is the need cumulative investment in fleet and a global network that we, as a rental business, serve.
of service centres to get to the point where we are big enough to enjoy the benefits of global scale.
Over the Within the Local business, barriers to entry are last ten years, some very large and powerful companies relatively low: many companies, small and large, drift who have global scale in other markets have tried to in and out of rental, and competition in each market emulate Aggreko but none has yet succeeded in is fierce.
Typically, competitors in the Local business building a global integrated power and temperature are either privately-owned specialist rental businesses, control business of the same scale.
Aggreko is currently or divisions of large plant-hire companies.
Their the only business in the market which has grown large common characteristic is that they are local: most of enough to capture the economies of global scale and, them operate in a single country and, often, in just a in turn, these efficiencies have enabled us to fund rates particular part of a country.
In their own territory they of investment, and deliver returns to shareholders, far are very effective, but they find it difficult to operate ahead of any competitor.
As a consequence of this rate outside their home market.
So in most areas in which of investment, we have grown to be significantly larger we operate, competition in the Local business is fierce: than any other company operating in our market.
but the names with whom we do battle will tend to be different country by country, or even county by county.
For Power Projects, in some regions notably South America and Asia there are a number of companies that compete with us in their home territory, but they find it hard to operate outside their regional base.
There are about 10 Caterpillar dealers who compete vigorously for power projects but, again, they tend to stick to neighbourhoods they know.
These companies find it hard to organise themselves globally, however, and it is difficult to operate efficiently in the Power Projects business without a large homogenous fleet and the infrastructure to market, sell and operate it in a consistent manner around the world.
There is only one other company that has the proven ability to operate globally, which is APR Energy, based in Jacksonville, Florida, and we have been competing 14 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW BIG IS THE MARKET, THE MARKET AND WHAT IS OUR SHARE?
Because we operate in very specific niches of the Demand for Aggrekos services is created by events: rental market power, temperature control and, in our customers generally turn to us when something North America only, oil-free compressed air and happens which means they need power or temperature across a very broad geography, it is very difficult to control quickly, or for a limited period of time.
Events determine with any accuracy the size of our market.
that stimulate demand range from the very large and A complicating fact is that our own activities serve infrequent to the small and recurrent.
to create market demand Mozambique and the Ivory Coast did not figure highly in our estimates of market Examples of high-value, infrequent events or situations size a few years ago, but they are now important we have worked on include: customers as a result of our sales efforts.
Furthermore, our market is event driven, and major events such as Large-scale power shortage South Africa, hurricanes in North America, the Olympic Games, or Bangladesh, Argentina.
major droughts in Africa can influence local market size in the short-term.
Major sporting occasions Olympic Games, FIFA World Cup, Asian Games.
We have tried all sorts of ways to size the market for the Local business.
In large and mature markets this Entertainment and broadcasting Glastonbury, is difficult, but not impossible.
We can seek to track Ryder Cup.
down every competitor and guess how much they have on rent as opposed to us.
In emerging markets, Natural disasters Hurricane Sandy in North where we are growing fastest, estimating market size America in 2012, Brisbane floods in 2011. is not difficult, it is impossible, as we are often the only major player in the market and the job we do Post-conflict re-construction and military support is one of demand creation.
Until we arrived in, say, Congo, Iraq and Afghanistan.
South Africa, there was no market for industrial-scale temperature-control rental, because nobody offered it.
Examples of lower-value, more frequent events on Now there is one, because we do.
So our approach is which we might work are: what expensive and therefore, presumably, clever consultants tell us is called market potential An oil refinery needs additional cooling during estimation, which works as follows: the summer to maintain production throughput.
Step One: in a market say, oil-refining in the A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown in its US in which we are well-established and have plant and needs power while its own equipment high market share, calculate our rental revenues is being repaired.
a known number in the sector as a proportion of the total economic output of oil refineries in A city centre needs chillers to create an ice-rink the US another known number.
This produces for the Christmas period.
Step Two: make the bold assumption that if we can achieve, say, 0.00001 of the economic output of refineries in the US as revenues, we should, in theory, be able to achieve the same in oil refineries everywhere else.
Therefore if we take the total economic output of oil refineries in, say China, and then apply the same multiple to that which we achieve in the US, that tells us how big the potential market is, and how little we have, so far, achieved in our attempts to penetrate Chinese oil-refineries.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED Step Three: take this same technique, and apply WHAT DRIVES GROWTH IN THE LOCAL BUSINESS?
it to about 20 segments in 30 countries, and, heypresto, we have a number for the market potential Growth in Aggrekos Local business is driven by a dodgy number and a number for our revenues three main factors: in the sector an accurate number, and therefore an estimate of our share of market potential.
GDP as an economy grows, so does demand for energy in general, and rental equipment in This is all a bit flimsy but, absent spending a fortune particular.
When economies are growing fast, of our shareholders money on consultants, it is the businesses tend to be busy, and they are therefore best that we can come up with and, actually, and most more likely to rent power equipment for a weekend importantly, it is a useful technique for our salespeople to do necessary maintenance, rather than lose because it tells us pretty accurately which markets and production.
In slow-growing economies where sectors we should be concentrating our efforts on.
there is excess capacity, the reverse is true.
From this process, we have come to the following Propensity to rent how inclined people are to conclusions: rent rather than buy.
This is driven by issues such as the tax treatment of capital assets and the growing We estimate that our worldwide market share is awareness and acceptance of outsourcing.
Given that we have Local business markets, financing is hard to come by and often revenues of 904 million this would imply Local exorbitantly expensive, and they are therefore market potential of about 4 billion.
more likely to be prepared to rent.
In almost every country we operate in, we are the Events high-value low-frequency events change number one or number two player, and we are the the size of a market, although only temporarily.
For only competitor that operates in all major regions example, Hurricane Sandy in 2012 led to a shortof the world.
term surge in temporary power demand in the areas affected by the disaster: likewise, the London The Local business market is growing at about twice Olympics in 2012 vastly increased the market for the rate of GDP, and probably faster than that in power rental in the UK, but for six months only.
some emerging countries where the market barely existed before we turned up.
In the five years to 2012, real global GDP grew by around 1.7%: so we would assume that the market Estimating market size is easier in the Power Projects potential grew by around 3.4% in real terms.
During business because there are few competitors, and we the same period, our revenues in the Local business get reasonable intelligence about their activities.
We grew by 15% in nominal terms, and by 10% in estimated that the total market for Power Projects in constant currency terms.
This is evidence that we 2012 was about 8,400MW 10%.
Our average MW have substantially and successfully increased our on hire in 2013 was 3,700MW, which says that our market share in the Local business over recent years.
16 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT WHAT DRIVES GROWTH IN THE Our core market for Power Projects is in emerging POWER PROJECTS BUSINESS?
markets where GDP is growing fast, and demand for The factors which drive the growth of our Power power is growing faster than GDP.
Working with a Projects business are different.
The main trigger of leading group of professional economists at Oxford demand is power cuts: when the lights go out in a Economics and Strategic Analytics, we have built country, people want power restored as quickly as models which take data on GDP and population possible.
It is a perverse fact that people value power growth, power consumption and power generation most when they are without it.
We believe that in capacity for 170 countries over the last 10 years.
many parts of the world, and most particularly in Using this historical data, we then project future power many developing countries, there will be increasing demand based on forecasts of population and GDP numbers of power cuts, caused by a combination of growth.
Our model predicts that worldwide demand burgeoning demand for power, ageing existing plant for power will grow by around 4% per annum between and inadequate investment in new capacity.
2010 and 2020, comprising around 6% in non-OECD countries and 2% in OECD countries.
Our model It is worth understanding how whole countries can reflects the sharp divergence between the growth in run short of power, and how this expresses itself.
power consumption between OECD and non-OECD First, for the lights to stay on, power production countries in recent years, as shown in the graph below.
must exactly equal power consumption: in developing countries there will be peaks of demand in the early Actual forecast increase in electricity demand morning and in the evening, and troughs at night: and % increase there is often a seasonal pattern in summer people 10 turn on air-conditioning and large amounts of extra 8 demand can come onto the system.
A country needs 6 to have enough generating and transmission capacity to cater for the absolute peak demand, plus a safety 4 margin called the reserve margin to cater for 2 unexpected breakdowns and scheduled maintenance.
0 If a country does not have a big enough reserve margin, power cuts inevitably result.
These typically -2 first show at times of peak demand: as the gap between 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 supply and demand grows, so the frequency and Non-OECD World OECD duration of power cuts increases.
In the early stages Source: Oxford Economics, Strategic Analytics of power shortage, power cuts may be rare, seasonal, and bearable.
But as the reserve margin drops, they become more frequent and disruptive and start to The rapid growth in power consumption in developing have very serious impact on the economy and life of countries is driven by industrialisation, urbanisation a nation.
In countries such as Tanzania, Pakistan and and by the growing number of consumers having access Venezuela people can be without power for as much to devices which consume electricity, such as fridges, as 12 hours a day, and the World Bank has estimated televisions and mobile phones.
Between 2000 and 2010, that the average sub-Saharan business can be without the number of people whose power consumption per power for over 50 days a year.
capita was growing faster than per capita GDP increased by nearly 1 billion to over 3 billion souls source Oxford The reserve margin is a simple function of supply Economics.
And, according to the International Energy and demand.
In our core market for Power Projects Agency, there are still over 1.3 billion people with no both of these factors are conspiring to reduce reserve access to electricity.
This is not through lack of wanting.
margins: economic and population growth is driving increasing demand, and lack of investment in new and existing generation means that supply cannot keep up with demand.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED To make this situation worse, by 2015, around 25% The budgets of utilities in developing countries are of the worlds installed power-generating capacity will generally controlled by government, and money spent be over 40 years old, which we believe is a reasonable on temporary power is money that has to be diverted proxy for the average life of a permanent power from elsewhere: the easiest, simplest thing to do is to plant.
The coming years will see the beginning of a just put up with power cuts and not spend the money.
replacement cycle during which a large part of existing Only when the pressure becomes intolerable will the power-plant construction capacity will be dedicated to coffers be opened.
Intolerable pressures include replacing existing plants in North America and Europe, demands from industry and commerce desperate for rather than building replacement or additional capacity power, and from voters angry about lack of power.
The sums which need to be mobilised over the next 10 years to re-build the power The balance of pressure and availability of money are distribution and generation capacity in North America both affected by economic circumstance and sentiment.
and Europe are huge: in the UK alone, the regulator If economic growth is strong and tax revenues are estimates that up to 150 billion will be required.
This growing: if industrial activity is expanding, and deficits means that developing countries will have to compete under control: if debt is cheap, then customers will be for funds with developed countries, where investment more inclined to spend money on temporary power.
risk is perceived to be far lower.
This was generally the case in the decade up to 2012.
In the last two years, economies in emerging As part of our recent Strategy Review we updated markets have seen lower rates of growth and greater our current models of the gap between supply and uncertainty, and accordingly the willingness and demand, and we now believe that the combination of ability of governments to spend money on temporary these demand-side and supply-side factors will increase power has been tempered.
the worldwide shortfall of power generating capacity to around 230 gigawatts GW by 2020 which is a Whilst we are not economists, we do sometimes nearly 4-fold increase from 2005 when it was about listen to what they say, and the consensus seems to 63GW.
In our core market, which we define as nonbe that the next five years will see real GDP growth OECD countries excluding China, we estimate that in rates in emerging markets that are around 5.5%, about the same period the shortfall will increase 9-fold, from 1 percentage point less than in the period 2000-2010 29GW to 195GW.
The ultimate size of the shortfall see graph.
It is because of this that we have reduced will depend on both the rate of increase in demand our forecast of average growth in demand for temporary and the net additional generation and transmission power over the next five years in this sector to be in capacity brought into production during the period.
the range of 10-15% rather than the 20% we saw in Even if the shortfall is lower than our current the last five years.
forecasts, it will still represent a level of global power shortage significantly larger than todays.
We are Emerging markets and developing economies growth confident that such a level of power shortage will % drive powerful growth over the medium and long term 10 in demand for temporary power as countries struggle 9 8 to keep the lights on.
7 6 We are sometimes asked whether the drivers of 5 growth in Power Projects are cyclical or structural.
4 The answer is that one is affected by the other: the 3 2 immediate force of the structural drivers is affected 1 by the economic environment.
In the long-term, the 0 drivers of growth increasing demand for electricity 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 and inadequate investment in supply are structural.
Real GDP growth % Decade average But the decision to spend hundreds of millions Source: IMF, World Economic Outlook of pounds on sustaining electricity supply using temporary solutions is in most cases a political one.
18 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT HEALTH WARNINGS It is also important to remember that Power Projects specialises in providing energy infrastructure in countries Our Power Projects business has delivered impressive where political and commercial risk is high sometimes returns over the last two strategy cycles: a compound very high and the fact is that we do business where growth of 34% in trading profit and an average return others fear to tread.
To date, we have never had a on capital of 31%.
Because the structural drivers of material loss of equipment or receivables but it is growth are so strong, it is easy to be seduced into the likely, that sooner or later, one of our customers will belief that progress has always been smooth.
Our assets are at much greater risk of loss not the case: not only has order intake been volatile, or impairment than they would be if they were sitting but we have also seen large variations in quarterly in the suburbs of London or New York or Singapore.
onand off-hire rates see graph below.
In a business We have extensive risk-mitigation procedures and where customers pay a premium for the ability to take techniques, and we are currently carrying 49 million on or get rid of capacity at short notice, we should of bad-debt provisions, but investors should remember not be surprised if they exercise their rights for their that the returns we report are fundamentally riskconvenience rather than ours, and it is therefore the unadjusted rates of return because nobody has yet case that growth in our Power Projects business is behaved badly enough to adjust them.
subject to fits and starts rather than one of smooth progression.
The structural growth drivers will ensure that, over time, the direction will be onwards and upwards but, from quarter to quarter and from year to year, it will not be a smooth ride.
