Chairmans report EMBRACING am delighted to have resumed my responsibilities as Chairman of Electrocomponents during the year, and on I behalf of the Board I would like to thank Rupert Soames for taking on the role of Acting Chairman in my absence and all the business has made my colleagues for their understanding and support.
significant changes to its It is an exciting time for me to resume my chairmanship of the Group.
strategy and organisation During the past year the business has made signi cant changes to to achieve outperformance its strategy to achieve outperformance and has carried out a major reorganisation to deliver this strategy.
These steps have been taken from a position of strength and have been implemented smoothly and effectively.
Organisation, strategy and performance framework There are clear bene ts to being a large, global competitor in the high service distribution marketplace and with our scale, customer proposition and global reach we are well placed to take advantage of the structural trends to globalisation.
Following an extensive review of how to maximise our ability to capture these bene ts, and building on the successful regionalisation of our European businesses, we have, during the last year, developed and implemented a new global operating model.
This resulted in the transition of our organisation structure from a country-based structure to a new functionally-based structure.
Whilst it has involved the removal of some duplication within the business and driven greater ef ciencies, its primary bene t is to enable us to evolve to a common global strategy which is designed to grow our market share faster and improve our financial performance over the medium term.
This new strategy is based around seven strategic priorities covered in more detail in the Group Chief Executives review.
This strategy will be supported by additional investment over the next five years, which will be funded from operational cash ows and focused on our growth initiatives.
The strategy, supported by a new organisation and additional investment, is expected to deliver an improvement in the Groups financial performance.
Our new medium-term performance framework is set out on page 14 in the Group Chief Executives review.
Its principal components include a higher rate of share gains in our international markets, growth rather than stability from our UK business, and continued operating leverage.
10 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Business review Trading performance Corporate responsibility Against the backdrop of very challenging trading conditions across As a member of the FTSE4Good Index, corporate responsibility is an almost all of the Groups markets underlying sales grew by 1% over integral part of our business.
As our business has evolved so has our the prior year, with Group reported sales of 1,236 million.
commitment to sound corporate responsibility policies and practices Maintenance sales grew by 3%, offset by a 2% decline in electronics across the globe.
Following the reorganisation of our business in sales, though this latter product category outperformed a tough 2012, we are working together to share and embed best practice electronics market.
The transformation of Electrocomponents into a across all of our markets.
In particular, our people are our greatest primarily online business continued with eCommerce sales growing asset and keeping them safe and healthy is of paramount importance.
eCommerce represented 56% of sales during the year, Target Zero, our health and safety campaign launched in 2011 in the continuing on the path towards our medium-term target of 70%.
UK, has now been rolled out internationally with encouraging results: the total amount of lost time due to accidents across the Group has Highlighting the operational leverage inherent in our business, headline decreased by almost 50% over the prior year.
pro t before tax declined by 19% to 99 million.
This re ected a decline in gross margin of 0.8% points and operating cost growth of 2% at Employees constant currency, together with a 10 million impact due to fewer On behalf of the Board, I wish to express my sincere thanks to all our trading days and currency movements.
colleagues across the Group for their support through what has been The Groups cash-generative qualities remain evident, as headline free a very challenging year.
I am particularly grateful for their continued cash ow increased by 6% to 56.1 million despite the 19% decline in focus on business performance at a time of great personal insecurity headline pro t before tax.
This resulted in a return on capital employed for many.
The Groups financial performance could not be achieved of 19.3%, signi cantly ahead of the Groups cost of capital.
The Group without committed, dedicated employees, and I would like to thank retains a strong financial position, with funding in place through to all of them for their part in delivering these results and embracing 2015 and signi cant headroom to the Groups banking covenants.
so enthusiastically the changes that we are making to the business.
Dividend The Board is proposing an unchanged final dividend for the year of 6.75 pence per share.
This will be paid on 22 July 2013 to shareholders on the register on 21 June 2013.
As a result, the total dividend for the financial year will be 11.75 pence per share, resulting in headline Peter Johnson, Chairman earnings cover of 1.3 times.
23 May 2013 The Board believes that the business has signi cant opportunities to invest for growth at attractive returns, as illustrated by the investment planned to support the Groups new medium-term business plan.
The Groups free cash ow should enable the Board to maintain and grow the dividend over the medium term.
As previously indicated, over time and as earnings increase, the Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy whilst increasing headline earnings dividend cover towards two times.
Board changes Electrocomponents has a strong and effective Board with a clear view of its own role and purpose.
I am delighted that during the year we have been able to further strengthen the Board.
On 1 January 2013 Karen Guerra and John Pattullo joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors, bringing with them a broad range of international business experience and, respectively, strong backgrounds in marketing and supply chain management.
I am con dent that both have the necessary skills to help support the Groups strategy and ongoing development.
Electrocomponents plc Electrocomponents plc Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 13 311 11
