Chairmans statement Ian Brindle In 2013 Elementis achieved another year of earnings growth and good Chairman progress.
The main focus of our growth strategy remains the Specialty Products business and so it is gratifying to report that both sales and operating profit in that business grew by 10 per cent in the year.
This is all the more impressive when considered against the background of a challenging economic environment.
The nature of this growth provides further evidence of the diversity and resilience of our business model and the progress that has been made in implementing our strategy.
All of the main market segments and geographies making up the Specialty Products business contributed to the growth, driven by market share gains, new product launches and strategic acquisitions while at the same time operating margins were maintained, demonstrating the inherent quality of the business.
Cash flow generation continued to be a strong feature of the Groups performance in 2013.
The balance sheet net cash position at the end of the year increased by $10.1 million over the previous year to $54.1 million, despite paying $33.0 million for the Hi-Mar acquisition and making the first special dividend payment of $22.0 million.
Group revenues in 2013 were $776.8 million compared to $757.0 million in the previous year supported by the good growth in Specialty Products.
As previously reported, Chromium sales were impacted by the timing of a maintenance shutdown in the early part of the year.
Operating profit was $776.8 million $146.6 million compared to $143.9 million in the previous year and Group operating margin was stable across the two years at 19 per cent.
Diluted Group revenue earnings per share improved by 6 per cent to 23.0 cents per share.
13.93c Balance sheet The Group continues to be in a robust financial position with net cash Total dividends per share for 2013 on the balance sheet at the year end, providing an appropriate platform to support future growth.
During the year the Group refinanced its main borrowing facilities, agreeing a new $100 million facility for 5 years on improved terms with a syndicate of US, European and Asian banks.
The deficit on Group retirement schemes, under IAS 19, also declined during the year from $137.4 million to $99.3 million, due to a combination of favourable asset returns, Company contributions and increases in real bond yields, further improving the balance sheet.
Dividends The Board is continuing with the dividend strategy announced in 2012, which is to pay out approximately one third of earnings, before exceptional items, each year in a combination of interim and final dividends.
In addition a special dividend is paid each year of up to 50 per cent of the net cash balance at the year end, provided there are no immediate investment plans for that cash.
Consequently, the Board is recommending a final dividend for 2013 of 5.50 cents per share 2012: 5.32 cents and a special dividend of 5.86 cents per share or $27.1 million 2012: 4.79 cents or $22.0 million.
These will be paid on 30 May 2014 in pounds sterling at an exchange rate of 1 $1.6674 equivalent to a sterling amount of 6.8130 pence per share, to shareholders on the register on 2 May 2014.
This brings the total dividends for the year to 13.93 cents per share 2012: 12.56 cents, representing an increase of 11 per cent over the previous year.
02 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Health, safety and the environment People Our performance in this important area of our business continues to be of Our progress and achievements are only possible through the significant a high standard relative to the industry and showed an improvement over efforts and dedication of our employees around the world.
I would the previous year, with fewer incidents.
Nevertheless, we remain extremely therefore like to congratulate and thank them on behalf of the Board vigilant in monitoring and improving our processes and activities that for their considerable successes during the year.
impact upon the safety of our employees and the environment.
Outlook Board changes The positive results and significant progress made by the Group in 2013, We stated this time last year that we would be making changes to the combined with a strong financial position, are further evidence that the Board during 2013, as part of our succession planning programme.
Group is adopting the right strategy and has the appropriate resources to Consequently, we welcomed Anne Hyland to the Board in June who drive profitable growth and create value for all its stakeholders.
The Board replaced Chris Girling as Chairman of the Audit Committee when he is therefore confident that the Group will continue to make progress.
retired at the end of July.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Chris for his financial guidance, pragmatic approach and excellent contribution over the years.
Your Chairman Robert Beeston decided to retire at the end of July for personal reasons.
Robert was Chairman for just under seven years and led the Board through a period in which the Company experienced significant positive change and the foundations of its growth strategy Ian Brindle were laid.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my sincere Chairman thanks to Robert for his leadership and wise counsel over the years.
25 February 2014 As a consequence of this development, we decided that further Board appointments would be put on hold until a new Chairman had been appointed.
In January of this year we were delighted to announce the appointment of Andrew Duff as Deputy Chairman and Chairman-Designate, effective from 1 April 2014.
The Board succession programme will continue under Andrews chairmanship.
During 2014 Kevin Matthews and I will have served on the Board for more than nine years but, subject to shareholder support, we intend to continue in office for another year in the current period of Board transition.
Kevin Matthews appointment was renewed in February for another year and my appointment will also be renewed for another year in June.
We will both retire and stand for re-election at the AGM in April.
Whilst Kevin and I can no longer be considered independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code once nine years have been served, we will both continue to exercise the independent judgement which will provide continuity and stability to the Board during the process of change.
The Boards process of refreshing its composition will continue this year.
Governance The Board considers that it has applied all the principles and provisions of the Corporate Governance Code in 2013.
Further information about this and other aspects of our governance arrangements are set out in the Corporate governance report on page 26. before exceptional items Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 03
