14 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 In the first four years, EnQuest generated c. $2.1 billion in OVERVIEW cash flow from operations, and has invested c. $2.3 billion in the future growth of the business.
I believe that, in riskCHAIRMANS adjusted terms, EnQuest is positioned at the most value creating part of the exploration and production lifecycle.
EnQuests momentum is strong, the Board and I are more STATEMENT excited by our prospects today than at any time since EnQuests inception.
Industry context In 2013, oil prices remained strong and stable, for the third year in succession.
This was a healthy backdrop for continuing investment and new opportunities in the energy EnQuests performance industry.
However, there have been cost increases which EnQuest is delivering sustainable growth.
have directly contributed to the cancellation of some substantial development projects in the industry.
This Over our first four years to the start of competitive environment underlines the scale of EnQuests 2014, we have grown our original net 2P achievement in successfully delivering the sanction of the Kraken development.
reserve base by almost 150%, representing a replacement ratio of In 2013, EnQuest put a new credit facility in place, for up to $1.7 billion.
As a company of substantial size, with high levels approximately 450% and EnQuest now of cash generated from operations, EnQuest has good has a reserve life of over 20 years.
access to capital and has a strong balance sheet, providing Dr James Buckee Chairman capacity to acquire new assets.
Sellers of oil field assets need buyers who not only have the required funding, but who have the necessary technical and operational capabilities, essential for the subsequent safe and effective management of the assets.
EnQuest has all of these capabilities.
Generally, the flow of assets available to EnQuest for possible acquisition has increased, facilitating potential new acquisition projects, such as EnQuests recent acquisition of the Greater Kittiwake Area GKA assets.
Four years of strong cash ow generation: 450% reserve replacement ratio, reserve life over 20 years Reserves 20102013 MMboe Cash ow 20102013 Net 2P reserves 80.5 start 2010 Production 32.7 2010 to 2013 Additions to 147.0 reserves 2010 to 2013 Net 2P reserves 194.8 starts 2014 December 2009 $8m Net cash Cash ow from $2.1bn operations $ 0.2 bn Tax, finance, other $ 2.3 bn Capex December 2013 $ 381 m Net debt 15 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 We believe companies like EnQuest are the future of the UK human rights.
In line with the recent expansion of our North Sea.
It is only by combining our skills and expertise with overseas activities, we are refining our approach to these fiscal incentives that we can commit to significant new areas to ensure that the Companys policies are robust for investments.
In 2013, EnQuest benefited from aspects of the international as well as local operations.
Our values will UK North Sea fiscal regime designed to encourage investment.
remain consistent with our existing Code of Conduct and will The Thistle platform utilised a brownfield allowance and the comply with all applicable laws.
Kraken development secured two heavy oil allowances.
EnQuest continues to engage with the UK Government, In 2013 we further embedded and extended our antiseeking to optimise the fiscal structure of the UK North Sea.
corruption programme, by launching a Group-wide training programme for all employees.
By the end of the year the EnQuest also engages with the Scottish Government and great majority of our employees had completed the training, welcomes statements that, in the event of there being an which is being extended to all new joiners.
independent Scotland, the Scottish Government plans a stable and predictable fiscal and regulatory regime.
EnQuest Dividend believes that in order to maximise the extraction of The Company has not declared or paid any dividends since hydrocarbons, there is a fundamental requirement for a incorporation in January 2010 and does not have current stable fiscal regime that incentivises investment.
intentions to pay dividends in the near future.
Any future payment of dividends is expected to depend on the EnQuest welcomes the recommendations of the 2013 2014 earnings and financial condition of the Company and on Wood Review of oil and gas activity on the UK Continental such other factors as the Board of Directors of the Shelf and its regulation.
Sir Ian Woods strategy Maximising Company considers appropriate.
Economic Recovery for the UK, proposes more rigorous stewardship of the UKs remaining oil and gas resources Delivering sustainable growth through greater collaboration between operators and strong 2013 was another good year of delivery and progress for tripartite co-operation between the UK Department of Energy EnQuest.
We continue to demonstrate that by targeting & Climate Change DECC, HM Treasury and the oil and gas maturing assets and undeveloped oil fields, we can create industry.
EnQuest believes that in some important respects the value and deliver sustainable growth.
In 2014, EnQuest will current system is out of date and no longer fit for purpose.
It continue to invest in its current producing assets, bring provides existing operators little incentive to accommodate Alma Galia onstream, integrate the Greater Kittiwake Area third parties through their infrastructure and, without action, acquisition and make substantial investments in the Kraken UK North Sea oil production will decline prematurely.
If the development, which is scheduled to come onstream by 2017.
Wood recommendations are implemented they should help to We are therefore on course for having six producing prolong the life of the North Sea and to maximise hydrocarbon operated hubs in the UK and for achieving our objective of extraction from this still rich maturing basin.
annual net production from the UK North Sea of around 50,000 Boepd.
Beyond that, we are creating further new EnQuest Board potential from our UK asset portfolio and making low cost There were no changes to the composition of the Board investments in international opportunities, securing during 2013.
The Directors collaborate in assessing and EnQuests growth for the longer term.
evolving EnQuests strategy and in key decisions on implementation: in 2013 these included the sanctioning of the Kraken development, the Kittiwake acquisition and EnQuests initiatives outside the UK North Sea.
ENQUEST VALUES EMPOWERMENT Although there were no changes to the Board itself in 2013, One of the things I like most about EnQuest is that I am given in October, EnQuest PLC announced the appointment of clear accountability for my work and then empowered to deliver Stefan Ricketts as Company Secretary.
For me this means appropriate controls but, importantly, a Paul Waters stepping down as Company Secretary.
Paul has lack of bureaucracy and the feeling that my efforts can really been with EnQuest since its inception, the Board thanks him make a difference.
I believe EnQuests culture of empowerment allows people to put their hearts into their work and gives us a for his contribution and welcomes Stefan to his new role.
EnQuests results are a reflection of the quality of all of our people and on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank my EnQuest colleagues for their continued hard work, commitment to our values, and successful pursuit of the Companys development plans.
Governance Jane Mellor The Company recognises the importance of having high Performance Management Team Lead standards in all areas of governance, this includes the area of For more information visit: www.
