Chairmans Statement I am pleased to present our results for the financial year ended 30 September 2013.
The Company has made solid progress on a number of fronts, and is now well positioned to achieve stability in both like-for-like net income performance and in the size of the estate.
Robert Walker Chairman inception, through both good times and, more recently, Results during the more challenging economic and recessionary Profit before tax and exceptional items for the year was climate.
This years results allow Ted to retire leaving the 121 million, compared to 137 million in the previous business in good shape for the future and with huge year.
Our like-for-like net income for the year declined thanks from the Board and our employees.
We wish him by 2.9% although trading performance improved in well for the future.
the final quarter with growth of 0.6% in like-for-like net We also announced the appointment of Simon income.
This performance was against the background Townsend as Chief Executive, to take effect at the time of a particularly difficult trading environment for many of of Teds retirement at our AGM, 6 February 2014.
Simon our Publicans: a fragile economic climate coupled with joined Enterprise in 1999 and has served the business inclement weather the coldest spring for fifty years and successfully as Chief Operating Officer since 2006.
The tough comparatives in the previous year.
However, our Board is confident that Simon is the right person to lead commercial and operational teams successfully deployed the Company into its next phase.
a number of new initiatives for our Publicans to improve their retail offers to customers and we expect more of We are also pleased to have welcomed Peter Baguley as these in the coming years.
He was appointed on 31 January 2013, replacing David Harding, who served the Board so I am pleased to report good progress on the Companys debt well during his nine years tenure.
Peter brings to the Board and balance sheet issues.
The issuance of an unsecured a particular property expertise and is already providing convertible bond on 10 September 2013 generated excellent advice and support to our property teams.
97 million of gross proceeds and has helped to reduce David Maloney, a non-executive director since 2008, and the bank debt, net of cash, to only 41 million.
This leaves currently Chairman of the Audit Committee, succeeded us with limited bank amortisation requirements for the David Harding as Senior Independent Director in January.
future and will enable us to limit further asset disposals to a level required to fund our investment ambitions, at Employees and Publicans around 60 million per annum.
With disposal proceeds matching capital investment, we would expect the Once again, our engaged and hard-working colleagues Companys future EBITDA performance to more closely and Publicans are critical to our success.
On behalf of the track our like-for-like net income performance.
Board, I would like to thank them all for their fine efforts and resilience during the past year.
Continued focus on cash generation has reduced total debt by a further 216 million, with total net debt at the year Outlook end now 2.5 billion.
Cash generation from the business was supported during the year by proceeds of 150 million After a difficult start, we ended the 2013 financial year from the disposal of primarily underperforming pubs.
with an improving trend in our trading performance.
Current and foreseeable market conditions remain Dividend volatile and challenging, economic confidence is returning but consumer spending remains restrained, with cost The Board continues to believe it is not appropriate to inflation exceeding income growth.
To have delivered likeresume the payment of dividends at this time.
The current for-like net income growth in such conditions in our final strategy of utilising available cash flow to reduce debt is quarter is pleasing and to have continued this into the first the most effective way to achieve long-term transfer of seven weeks of the current financial year is encouraging.
We are confident that the improving quality of our pub Board of directors estate, the innovation and resilience of our Publicans, the dedication of our team and proactive actions we are We announced in November 2013 that Ted Tuppen will taking provide the appropriate foundations for delivering retire from the Board on 6 February 2014, after over sustainable net income growth which will generate 20 years of service as Chief Executive.
Ted founded significant cash flows and value for shareholders.
Enterprise in 1991 and has throughout been a Chief Executive of unrivalled leadership, energy and charisma.
R M Walker His contribution to the Companys success cannot Chairman be overestimated: in 2006 he was awarded a CBE 8 November 2013 1 for services to the hospitality industry and he has successfully shaped and steered the business from its Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 03 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:15 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 3 10 12 2013 14:19:25 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
