Essar Energy plc 04 Company overview Annual Report and accounts 2013 Chairmans statement Introduction The past year has seen Welcome to Essar Energys Annual Report for FY2013.
Following a significant positive progress, challenging FY2012, FY2013 has seen significant positive progress on a number clearly demonstrating our of fronts, demonstrating our ability to construct and operate world-class assets across the oil and gas and power sectors.
ability to construct and operate In our Refining and Marketing business world-class assets across the inIndia we completed the upgrade programme at our flagship Vadinar oil and gas and power sectors.
refinery and now have a world-class refinery producing high value fuels for Prashant Ruia theinternational and domestic markets.
AtStanlow in the UK, projects have Chairman beendelivered to improve GRMs by a sustainable US$2.2 bbl.
Stanlow has increased its target for sustainable margin enhancements to $4 bbl, and is therefore now positioned to deliver GRMs of US$6 bbl above IEA European benchmark margins by the end of FY2015.
In our Exploration and Production business we have secured the final approvals to allow us to accelerate the development of our Raniganj coal bed methane CBM project in West Bengal, a project which is key to us becoming a leader in the development of unconventional gas resources in India.
In Power, we have delivered 2,310 MW of new coal-fired power generating capacity, more than doubling our capacity from just one year ago to a total of 3,910 MW.
Delivery of these projects means that wehave seen a significant improvement in our operating performance which isstarting to feed through to our financialresults.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 05 Annual Report and accounts 2013 India will continue to experience high growth rates for many years to come as the economy progresses with its industrialisation and urbanisation.
Central to delivering this growth is the need for energy.
Despite more positive results, we, and In this respect, our short to medium-term our industry as a whole, continue to face priorities will be to complete our current a number of challenges due to slow capital expenditure capex programme, progress with regulatory approvals in which is already completed in our Refining India.
However, we are starting to see businesses and mostly completed in more positive progress on a number Power: to optimise the performance of offronts with the Government of India ourassets to ensure that they deliver the seeking to reduce the fiscal deficit cash flow and earnings that were originally andmove commodity prices, including envisaged at the time of the original energy prices, to more commercial investment decision: and then focus on levels.
We are very supportive of these our balance sheet, to reduce interest measures and look forward to more costs, extend our repayment profile to GUVNL transmission line to Salaya power plant.
positive progress in the months ahead.
better match the life of our assets and reduce our overall net debt.
Underlying all Strategy of these efforts will be our continued desire We remain firmly of the view that India will to be a good corporate citizen for all of our People continue to experience high growth rates stakeholders.
With this clear focus over the The quality of our assets and strong for many years to come as the economy next three years we will put ourselves in a operating performance is a testament to progresses with its industrialisation and much stronger position both operationally the skills, dedication and commitment of urbanisation.
Central to delivering this and financially and will be ready to embark our people.
Where necessary, we have growth is the need for energy: whether on our next phase of growth.
brought in new people to strengthen our fuels for transportation or electricity for leadership teams across the businesses Board governance theincreasingly urban population.
If India and this is starting to deliver improved Following the appointment of Steve moves towards its targeted GDP growth operating and financial performance.
This rate of around 9% per year, then this Lucas in March 2012, the Board now year we have completed over US$4 billion requires energy supplies to grow at hasa good mix with five Independent of capital projects and they have all been between 6.5% to 7% each year.
Directors and three Non-Independent seamlessly moved into operation.
However, we continue to where we have faced disruptions, teams These are ambitious, but achievable review the market to strengthen further across the businesses have worked targets, and why we remain confident that the experience, independence and together to find solutions to ensure that our strategy is the right one: to create a diversity of our Board members.
we can continue to deliver supplies to our world-class, low-cost, integrated energy customers.
For all of this, I would like to company focused on India and positioned In line with the UK Corporate Governance thank each of our employees for their to capitalise on Indias growing energy Code and to ensure a continuous efforts throughout the year.
We have not changed this improvement in our corporate governance strategy for the last three years, and have profile, we undertook our first externally They have been assisted in this no plans to do so, but given our current facilitated Board evaluation this year, the endeavour through the excellent position in the investment cycle, we are results of which are outlined in the leadership of our Chief Executive Officer, looking to consolidate our position over the Corporate Governance Report.
I am Naresh Nayyar, and his Senior next three years before we embark on the pleased to report that this independent Management team.
evaluation confirmed that the Board and its Committees operate effectively and each Director demonstrates commitment Prashant Ruia to their role.
