Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 04 www.
com Chairmans Statement Richard Ensor been offset by savings on central costs.
Costs the fivefold increase in the groups profits since Highlights and margins remained tightly controlled it was first introduced in 2004.
Accordingly, Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC, the throughout the year and, as highlighted in subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in international online information and events previous announcements, the group has January 2014, the board proposes to introduce group, achieved a record adjusted profit before continued to invest in technology and new a new CAP, CAP 2014, which will be structured tax of 116.5 million for the year to September products as part of its online growth strategy.
along similar lines to CAP 2010.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share were 71.0p Net debt at September 30 was 9.9 million As highlighted in previous trading updates, the 2012: 65.9p.
The directors recommend a 7% compared with 38.1 million at March profitability of banks and asset managers has increase in the final dividend to 15.75p, giving a 31 and 30.8 million last year-end.
The groups improved during 2013, particularly in the US.
total for the year of 22.75p 2012: 21.75p, to net debt is at its lowest level since the acquisition However, continuing litigation against banks, be paid to shareholders on February 13 2014. of Institutional Investor in 1997.
The group often leading to significant financial settlements, spent 28.1 million on four acquisitions during combined with increasing regulation and Total revenues for the year increased by the year, and since the year-end has put in place demands for stronger capital bases, continues 3% to 404.7 million.
Underlying revenues, a new $160 million multi-credit facility providing to put pressure on the profits of the banking excluding acquisitions, increased by 1%.
headroom for a larger acquisition if and when industry.
As a result, the broadly positive outlook Headline subscription revenues increased by 3% the opportunity arises.
for markets and economic growth is taking time to 206.3 million, after a flat first half, and again to translate into a recovery in the spending of accounted for just over half of group revenues.
The board believes the Capital Appreciation Plan financial institutions on marketing, training and CAP, the groups long-term incentive scheme information buying.
The adjusted operating margin was unchanged designed to retain and reward those who drive at 30%.
While the operating margins of some profit growth, has been an important driver of divisions have come under pressure, this has 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05 Strategy The groups strategy remains the building of a robust and tightly focused global online information business with an emphasis on emerging markets.
This strategy is being executed through increasing the proportion of revenues derived from electronic subscription products: investing in technology to drive the online migration of the groups products as well as developing new electronic information services: building large, must-attend annual events: maintaining products of the highest quality: eliminating products with a low margin or too high a dependence on print advertising: maintaining tight cost control at all times: retaining and fostering an entrepreneurial culture: and using a healthy balance sheet and strong cash flows to fund selective acquisitions.
Acquisitions remain a key part of the groups strategy.
Four were completed in the year and another post year-end.
In December, the group index compilation market.
Finally, at the end of in the year included: SteelFirst, a specialised acquired TTI Vanguard, a private membership October, the group completed the acquisition online news, pricing and analysis service for the organisation for executives who lead technology of Infrastructure Journal, a leading information steel markets: Institutional Investors Sovereign innovation, providing an opportunity for source for the international infrastructure Wealth Center, a premium digital research tool Institutional Investor to apply its expertise markets.
By combining the deals database designed to provide a detailed understanding in building global subscription membership and news coverage of Infrastructure Journal of sovereign wealth fund investment strategies: organisations to a new sector.
In April the with the deals analysis, awards and events of and Petroleum Economists interactive digital group acquired CIE, Australias leading provider Euromoneys Project Finance, the group aims to maps covering global energy infrastructure.
of investment forums for senior executives of create the markets most comprehensive online superannuation funds and asset management infrastructure information provider.
In addition, the group has continued the firms.
Combining CIE with the expertise and development of its new platform for authoring, relationships of Institutional Investors forums All of these transactions were consistent with storing and delivering its content Project and membership business has extended the the groups strategy of investing in online Delphi, with a view to both improving the groups coverage of the asset management subscription and events businesses which quality of its existing subscription products events sector to a key geographic market.
will benefit from its global reach, marketing and increasing the speed to market of new expertise and content platforms, and the group digital information services.
Initially the Delphi The acquisition of Insider Publishing in March will continue to use its robust balance sheet and platform will be used to transform BCAs enhanced the groups position in the insurance strong cash flows to pursue further acquisitions content into a fully integrated online research and reinsurance sector and provides a strong in 2014. service, including personalised content and complementary fit with its other reinsurance alerts, dynamic and interactive charts, semantic title, Reactions.
At the end of September the Driving revenue growth from new products search and a research dashboard to track group completed the acquisition of HSBCs is another key part of the groups strategy.
research themes, investment recommendations Quantitative Techniques operation, the The group has continued to invest heavily in and trades.
Delphi is also being used to upgrade benchmark and calculation agent business of technology and content delivery platforms, the groups Global Capital Markets products, HSBC Bank plc.
The business has been rebranded particularly for the mobile user, and in new digital including EuroWeek, through improved search, Euromoney Indices and the group believes the products as part of its transition to an online more data feeds and new transaction and data acquisition creates an exciting opportunity to products, starting with the launch of a new information business.
New products launched establish a significant footprint in the attractive 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Chairmans Statement Overview Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 06 www.
com Chairmans Statement continued service covering the Renminbi debt market.
approval at the AGM in January 2014, the Outlook The Delphi platform is expected to be ready for board proposes to introduce a new CAP, CAP First quarter trading has started in line with the launch in the second quarter of financial year 2014, which will have a similar structure and boards expectations.
The total expected capital investment in cost to CAP 2010.
The primary performance the group has increased significantly the Project Delphi is 9.4 million, of which 6.1 test under CAP 2014 will require the group proportion of revenues derived from less volatile million was spent in 2013, with a further 2.7 to achieve an adjusted profit before tax and subscriptions, and from events.
Subscription million expected to be incurred to completion.
before CAP expense of 173.6 million by revenues, supported by deferred revenues The cost of this project will be amortised over a financial year 2017, equivalent to an average at the balance sheet date, should continue four-year period.
profit growth rate of at least 10% a year from to grow, while the outlook for events and a base of 118.6 million in 2013.
This profit training is reasonably robust.
However, the Capital Appreciation Plan target would be adjusted in the event of any sharp improvement in fourth quarter financial The CAP is the groups long-term incentive significant acquisitions or disposals during the advertising has not continued into the first scheme designed to retain and reward those CAP performance period.
CAP 2014 awards quarter of the new financial year.
As usual at who drive profit growth and is an integral would vest in three roughly equal tranches in this time, forward revenue visibility beyond the part of the groups successful growth and financial years 2018, 2019 and 2020, subject to first quarter is limited for revenues other than investment strategy.
After satisfying the profit target under CAP In accounting terms, CAP 2014 is expected to While sentiment in financial markets remains 2010, the first 50% of CAP 2010 awards cost the group up to 41 million which will be reasonably positive, there is usually a lag between vested in February 2013, satisfied by the issue amortised over its six-year life, against a cost of their improved profitability and the appetite for of approximately 1.75 million new ordinary 30 million for CAP 2010 over its four-year life.
financial institutions to increase their spending shares and a cash payment of 7.5 million.
A maximum of 3.5 million ordinary shares will on marketing, training and information buying.
The second 50% of CAP 2010 awards, to the be used to satisfy CAP 2014 rewards, with the Most customer budgets are calendar year driven extent the additional performance test has been balance settled in cash.
The company intends so it is too early to determine whether this lag satisfied, will vest in February 2014 and lead to to acquire these shares in the market over the will translate into increased spend in 2014. the issue of a similar number of new shares and course of the CAP performance period, rather cash distribution.
than through the issue of new shares.
In 2014, the board plans to continue its programme of investing in the digital The board, supported by its Remuneration Further details of the proposed terms of transformation of its publishing businesses, in Committee, believes the CAP has been an CAP 2014 will be included in the circular particular using the Delphi platform to improve important driver of the fivefold increase in to shareholders to be issued in December the quality of its content and launch new the groups profits since it was first introduced in connection with the AGM to be held on products.
The board is confident its strategy for in 2004.
Accordingly, subject to shareholder January 30 2014. investing in new products and technology and using its strong balance sheet to fund further acquisitions will continue to drive further growth.
Richard Ensor Chairman November 13 2013 The base profit for 2013 is 118.6 million, being the adjusted profit before tax of 116.5 million before CAP expense of 2.1 million.
