LETTER FROM CHAIRMAN In line with our strategy we successfully Dear stakeholders, completed a number of major projects, encompassing both our steel and mining The year 2013 witnessed several important operations, designed to heighten efficiency and underwrite organic growth.
We also significantly events and initiatives, the results of which are increased our presence in coking coal with the acquisition, in January 2013, of a controlling set to become key drivers of the Companys interest in the Raspadskaya coal company.
Such developments took place against an unfavourable trading background with the global steel and mining sectors widely exposed to strong cyclical pressures, duly reflected in a softening of prices across the majority of product groups.
Consequently, the Board was extensively engaged in the reassessment of key business risks in the new normal reality, a review of capital allocation principles and adjustments to our ongoing strategy.
The Board enjoyed regular, in-depth and mutually challenging meetings with the Companys senior executive team, variously focused on strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability.
In view of evident interest in the Companys performance and strategies on the part of private shareholders and large investment funds, the Board has advocated a wider engagement of Directors and management in stakeholder communications.
In line with this the heads of EVRAZs business units participated in almost half of our meetings with investors during 2013.
We believe that shareholder access to management has become all the more important during the post 2008 period of economic turbulence and we welcome this dialogue which serves to impart new perspectives to Directors and management.
The participation of line managers at the Companys investor meetings is ongoing.
The Board also held an extensive review of the Companys health and safety performance.
While noting a decrease in the number of fatal accidents that occurred in 2013 versus 2012, we fully acknowledge that EVRAZ still has a long way to go to attain its zero fatality target.
Embedding a zero tolerance culture across the entire organisation is currently at the forefront of our agenda following our investments in the creation of a safer working environment and the introduction of further safety rules and regulations.
Changing employees mindsets in relation to their own safety and the safety of their colleagues is of vital importance and represents a challenge which we will vigorously pursue throughout 2014 and beyond.
Positive changes have already been achieved through the sharing of best practice know-how throughout our operations, a policy much in keeping with our appointment of a highly experienced head of health and safety, drawn from our North American operations.
74 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements In addition, the remuneration of senior appointments of appropriately qualified management is directly linked to the safety candidates will lead to adjustments in the performance of specific business units.
I am firmly of the opinion, however, that appointments to the Board should be The aforementioned deliberations between the made on merit, based on objective, transparent Board and senior executives led to a series of criteria, namely that Directors should possess initiatives primarily designed to streamline the the right skill sets, experience and backgrounds Companys business.
These included closures to enable them to add value to the work of and divestments of inefficient capacity and the entire Board.
I believe that the current the implementation of rigorous cost reduction composition of the Board meets such criteria, measures, accompanied by the reinforcement and that the Companys procedures for the of stringent health and safety policies, all of appointment of new directors to the board which are covered in detail in the preceding are in line with the UK Corporate Governance aspects of the report.
For further details, please see the that EVRAZ is now well prepared to withstand Directors biographies on pages 76 - 77. the cycles lows and, having retained its growth options, is equally well placed to take During 2013, the Board approved a number of advantage of the next stage in the cycle.
Company policies, including the Anti-corruption Policy and changes to the Code of Business This is the Companys first Annual Report under Conduct.
The Directors have committed to the new reporting requirements and, as such, promote these practices and endeavour to contains detailed information regarding various ensure strict observance of the Companys non-financial matters.
Certain highlights in this principles and values by all employees.
I would like to take this opportunity to EVRAZs Board believes that effective encourage stakeholders to inform us of corporate governance is essential to the any questions or concerns they may have long-term success of the business and regarding the Companys operations and or remains committed to strong governance its approach to the various issues outlined policies and the implementation of such.
Please communicate directly with the am pleased to inform you that the Company Company or with Sir Michael Peat, EVRAZs has complied with most of the provisions of Senior Independent Director, who is competent the UK Corporate Governance Code and has to address many issues himself and is explained one instance in respect of nonempowered to bring shareholders concerns to compliance.
For details please refer to page 79. the attention of the Board and management.
Our corporate governance framework I would also like to extend my sincere thanks is constantly reviewed, while our Board to all employees for their hard work and committees play a pivotal role in ensuring dedication and to shareholders and other the effectiveness of procedures.
Each stakeholders for their continued support.
committee chairman has provided a report which explains the committees role and the work carried out during the year.
For details please refer to pages 83 to 104.
The Board considered various matters raised in the changes to the Directors Alexander Abramov Report and Corporate Governance Code, Chairman of the Board particularly greenhouse gas GHG emissions, EVRAZ plc diversity and remuneration policy.
8 April 2014 In order to comply with the requirement on GHG emission reporting, we have revised our existing practices that were valid for separate operations within the vast geographies of our business and set up a Group wide system of GHG reporting.
The data on GHG emissions in respect of 2012 and 2013 together with the methodology used can be found on pages 38 - 39.
Your Board strongly supports the principle of boardroom diversity in all its aspects and, as opportunities present themselves, EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75
