2 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview Chairmans statement This has been another successful year for Experian.
We achieved our twelfth consecutive year of record earnings before interest and tax, delivering organic growth across the Group.
We are expanding into exciting new countries such as Turkey and Russia, and we were delighted this year to have launched a new credit bureau in Australia.
A decade ago, financial services accounted for the majority of the Groups revenues.
Today, this figure stands at 30%, underlining the tremendous strategic progress we have made expanding into new customer segments.
The same underlying data and analytical tools that enable financial services companies to make better informed decisions are now helping clients in other sectors - from telecommunications operators to public sector organisations and utility companies.
We were also pleased by the excellent progress we made during the year to Sir John Peace extend the reach of our consumer credit Chairman monitoring and fraud prevention services.
This included establishing further thirdparty partnerships to create valuable new channels to market and also plans to expand into new geographies.
The year saw further progress financially and strategically, while creating further Every year our appetite for innovation value for our shareholders with total grows.
We are investing in data and returns since demerger over three times analytics and are pioneering new products.
We have raised This is part of the very fabric of Experian.
our full-year dividend again, by 9% to Earlier this year, we launched PowerCurve, 34.75 US cents per share and we have our new customer management software, announced our intention to initiate a and it has been very well received by US$500m share purchase programme.
We also introduced BusinessIQ in the UK and P32 Delivering premium growth globally Ireland.
BusinessIQ is our flagship The expansion of our operations into major business information platform and was consumer economies has become one initially introduced in the US, where it has of the hallmarks of our success.
In the same vein, we today is very different to the Experian of continue to roll out our fraud prevention 12 years ago, with 33% of our revenues and digital marketing products across generated from outside the US and the several markets.
In December 2012, the UK, and from our vantage point we see regulations for the sharing of positive credit a great many opportunities ahead of us.
data in Brazil were approved.
The addition In Latin America, our business continues of this important data to our credit bureau to perform well with the addition of new clients to our business in Brazil and a will create opportunities in the future for growing contribution from our credit us to develop innovative new products and bureaux in Colombia and Peru.
services for lenders and consumers.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 3 P20 P52 Driving our talent and Recognising our responsibilities engagement agenda As the Group continues to grow, so do 128% total Our continued success is testament our responsibilities to the communities to the talent, entrepreneurial spirit in which we operate.
This was brought shareholder returns and commitment of more than 17,000 into focus during our senior management since demerger people who work for Experian.
At the conference in Mumbai, India in May 2012, FTSE 100 average 35% heart of the Group, engaging our people where our leaders saw and experienced and supporting their development is a range of social issues that emphasised fundamental to what we stand for, the wider social context for our business.
encouraging a culture where we deliver Sponsored by our Chief Executive exceptional business performance through Officer, Don Robert, this experience the drive and energy of our people.
was used to further sharpen our social Full-year dividend responsibility agenda and I am pleased We are now in the second year of the to tell you that the year saw us achieve a up 9% to 34.75 Heart of Experian initiative.
Our aim is number of important milestones.
to become one of the best places in the US cents world to work and I am pleased to say In our local communities, we gave even that this important initiative is making more of our time to helping those most in excellent progress.
Were bringing the need from raising well-needed funds for Heart of Experian to life through a series very worthy causes, through to pioneering of global activities, celebrating what new financial education programmes.
makes our business unique, while always Reflecting our strong culture and values, finding new ways to continue inspiring our people gave 3,670 more hours of their A total of 18,511 our workforce around the world.
time during the working day in the last year to making an even bigger difference voluntary hours The enthusiastic response from our to the communities we live and work in.
people to the Heart of Experian has during work time Environmentally, we have exceeded our been overwhelming.
I am confident that target in one year instead of two, reducing the sense of pride and connection with our overall carbon footprint by 8% per fullExperian shared by our employees can time employee and by 5% per US$1,000 only get stronger.
of revenue as a result of building P56 Our focus on governance efficiencies and reducing our travel.
We also launched Experians flagship social A strong governance framework plays a responsibility programme under the A business looking to the future key role in supporting our business model, Heart of Experian banner.
while striking an appropriate balance As the last year shows, Experian continues between long-term sustainable value to go from strength to strength and I am Centred on helping our local creation and risk.
I am confident that we confident that the best is yet to come.
communities achieve their social and have the right people and processes in I would like to thank everyone at Experian economic potential, the programme place in this regard, and to support the whose creativity and hard work have will see us do even more for our Groups growth strategy.
You will read played an instrumental role in achieving communities through Experians: later in the corporate governance report another record year as well as our employee volunteering efforts: about our governance activities during shareholders for their tremendous support.
products and services that deliver the year, including the Board evaluation With the Groups clear strategy for growth, social benefit: and focus on exceptional performance and its process, the induction of our new nontalented management team, Experians executive directors and the activities of the innovative financial education and small global growth story is a compelling one.
