Directors Report Business Review Chairmans Statement CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Focusing on delivering value to shareholders.
Mark Abrahams Chairman record in FTSE companies and vast assurance process.
Concern for the Groups Dear Shareholder knowledge of the challenges faced by impact on the environment is a fundamental The overall result for the year was, in terms of international engineering businesses.
They aspect of our business strategy: we recognise revenue, operating profit and earnings, the have skills that are complementary to the this as a major factor in ensuring a second highest achieved by the Group and other Board members and continue to be sustainable future.
The key principles of was in line with the Boards expectations at valued and trusted members of the Board.
fairness, honesty and integrity are core to our the mid-point of the year.
This was achieved in Code of Business Conduct.
All employees are the context of a challenging operating Governance required to apply these business standards in environment in the first half of the year and We believe in behaving ethically and openly and their dealings with colleagues, business improving trading conditions during the we adhere to and support the UK Corporate partners and third parties alike.
second half in most of our regions of Governance Code.
The Board's commitment operation.
to high standards of corporate governance Further information on Corporate During the second half of the year, there was an Responsibility can be found on continues to be a driver for the success of the pages 49 to 55 especially strong performance by AEP, assisted business and underpins how we expect our by a successful acquisition programme such businesses to behave.
During the year, the that, for the year as a whole, AEP achieved Shareholder value and dividend Board considered the impact of the BIS record revenue and underlying operating profit.
proposals on remuneration reporting, reviewed The Board is committed to the generation of the changes to the UK Corporate Governance long-term value for Fenner shareholders and, A further highlight of the year was the in order to achieve this, will continue to invest Code and finalised the external Board completion of the capacity expansion at our evaluation process.
The Board believes in in the development of both ECS and AEP.
Kwinana facility in Western Australia.
Fenner engaging with shareholders and meetings were serves most of the lowest cost producers of Acquisitions have always been an important held during the year with our major iron ore in the world, many of whom are part of the Fenner growth strategy.
During the shareholders to discuss any governance located in Australia, and we believe that, over year, we acquired four businesses, financed concerns or issues they might have.
To ensure the life of this facility, it will generate out of internally generated cash flow.
These the Board maintains a clear understanding of significant returns for shareholders.
acquisitions have so far produced an aggregate Fenners business drivers and issues, it also has return well ahead of expectations and we see A full review of the Groups performance regular contact with the management teams exciting potential for their future growth.
The during the year and outlook is set out on and visits Group operations during the year.
Board will support the making of further pages 6 to 26. acquisitions where they will allow the Group Further information on Corporate People to enter new territories or acquire new Governance can be found technology more expediently than could be I would like to take this opportunity to express on pages 29 to 36 done organically and providing that they are my sincere thanks to all of our employees around the world for their commitment and expected to generate value for shareholders.
Corporate responsibility dedication: Fenner can only succeed because The Board believes that an important Fenner believes that proper business conduct it has strong, dedicated and committed component of shareholder value is the dividend requires the application of the highest employees.
The fact that the Group achieved paid to the Companys shareholders.
In standards of health and safety to ensure safe its second highest results during difficult recognition of the Groups prospects and its working conditions for our employees, a trading conditions is a credit to our strong financial position, the Board is respect for the environment in which we work, employees hard work and determination.
recommending an increased final dividend of an awareness of the environmental issues 7.5p per share 2012: 7.0p, which gives a total David Buttfield retired from the Board at the faced by the Group and a commitment to dividend for the year of 11.25p 2012: 10.5p, an AGM in January 2013 after serving 10 years as behave with integrity at all times.
I would like to thank that we have a responsibility to be a good The final dividend will be voted on by David both personally and on behalf of the neighbour and employer, providing a positive shareholders at the Companys Annual General Board and the Company for his valuable influence in our communities.
The Group contribution, knowledge, guidance and Meeting to be held on 15 January 2014, to recognises that these values help to further which I look forward to welcoming you.
He has been a valuable and enhance the sustainability of our business.
trusted member of the Board and we wish Our approach to health and safety him a long and happy retirement.
management is enshrined in our Group Health I am pleased to confirm that during the year & Safety Management System Framework, both Alan Wood and John Sheldrick accepted which is based on the principles of continuous Mark Abrahams a second three year term as non-executive improvement and local accountability.
They both have a strong track implementation is supported by a global 13 November 2013 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 5
