STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION CHAIRM AN S LETTER Our strategy will deliver long-term growth and PETER HILL, CBE sustainable margin CHAIRMAN improvement.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER, Health, Safety, Environment & Sustainability HSES Last year, in my first report as Chairman, I introduced Alent The Group is committed to the continuous improvement plc as an independent company following our demerger in respect of health, safety, environment and sustainability, from Cookson Group plc.
I set out how Alent plc would and our performance in this important area of our business further develop and execute our strategy to strengthen continues to be of a high industry standard.
Nevertheless, our position as a preferred supplier of highly engineered we remain extremely vigilant in monitoring and continuously and customised specialty chemicals and materials across improving our processes and activities that impact upon the the electronics, industrial and automotive markets.
safety of our people and the environment.
One year on, I can report that Alents performance in 2013 Governance and Board has reinforced our confidence in our strategic direction.
Strong governance is integral to the long-term success We set out in this report how we continue to develop and of Alent and the Board is committed to ensuring that the deliver on our strategy.
Our focus on high unit growth business continues to be governed and managed with end-markets, our differentiated value-add customer openness, honesty and transparency.
Our Governance strategy, our strong market and technology positions Report on pages 48 to 66 sets out the approach we take allied to our innovation leadership and our financial and highlights the key focus areas of the Board in 2013. strength, will both support organic growth and acquisitions, During this, our first year, the Directors, both collectively and and will deliver long-term growth and sustainable margin individually, visited and inspected a substantial proportion improvement to our shareholders.
of Alents global operations, R&D centres and facilities, meeting management and staff.
We have been uniformly Results impressed.
We have also introduced and are progressing In a challenging external environment, Alent delivered new governance and risk management processes.
Whilst adjusted operating profit These actions will continue during 2014. declined 3.2% to 94.1m 2012: 97.2m and adjusted EPS declined 2.0% to 24.1p 2012: 24.6p we believe we have Our people outperformed in the majority of our end-markets both by It has been a year of tangible progress for the Group holding or improving our market share positions and taking strategically, operationally and financially.
This could not actions to improve our performance.
Pricing discipline have been achieved without the dedication, focus and was maintained, cost control and restructuring for the commitment of all our people and, on behalf of the Board, future increased, and margins were largely maintained I would like to thank them for their considerable efforts and or improved.
Cash generation from operations was I look forward to another year of continued progress in exceptionally strong during the year, resulting in a delivering on our plans.
much-strengthened balance sheet and a year-end net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.0x 2012: 1.3x.
Dividend PETER HILL, CBE The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2013 CHAIRMAN of 5.71 pence with a total dividend per share for 2013 of 4 MARCH 2014 8.60 pence.
This is an increase of 4.2% on the prior year and in line with the Groups progressive dividend policy of full year dividend growth expected to be at least in line with earnings growth, and targeting a dividend cover in the near term within a range of 3.0 to 2.8 times.
The Directors intention is to maintain a capital structure that is both efficient and balanced between investment for growth and returns to shareholders.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 03
