Chairmans Statement We remain well positioned to weather cyclical challenges.
Alberto Baillres Non-executive Chairman | 8 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements The changing dynamics of the precious metals industry in Exploration Development projects, designed to be low-cost from 2013 proved to be challenging for most mining companies.
priority: projects inception, saw no material change in total budget allocation, Falling metal prices, rising operating costs, lower ore grades, within current but as I outline below, management has modied the increased governmental and community actions, and greater mining districts and timing of certain projects in response to operational and demand from investors for short-term returns had important those with the best market developments.
implications for the strategy, performance and long-term mineral potential At our operating mines, further efficiencies were sought in viability of many in our industry.
order to offset higher unit costs for labour, rening charges, Fresnillo plc was not immune to these pressures, yet we electricity and fuel, an effort that must certainly remain in remain well positioned to weather cyclical challenges thanks place going forward.
to a value creation strategy that accounts for such shifts in market dynamics.
Furthermore, while some in our industry New challenges were burdened with expensive acquisitions made during Beyond the impact of metal prices, the mining industry the commodity boom, we continued to generate solid profit in Mexico faced its own unique set of challenges in 2013, margins in 2013, albeit below those of the previous year.
most notably the marked escalation in land access issues.
The Groups portfolio of profitable mines and development In response, we elevated the ranking of this risk from fourth projects is expected to yield returns even in a low metal place in terms of severity and likelihood, to second place, price environment.
This reects our long-term strategy of behind the precious metal price risk.
conservative organic growth based on a strong commitment Under Mexican law, mineral rights belong to the State to exploration and the development of efficient, low-cost, and only the federal government may issue concessions world-class operations located in mining districts we know to explore and mine.
Concession holders are required to well.
Notwithstanding our commitment to this strategy, negotiate with landowners, often agrarian cooperatives external circumstances and our own aspirations demand known as ejidos, to access the land on which the that we adapt to our environment in a process of continuous concessions are located.
In 2013, the mining industry in improvement and work to enhance our role as a Mexico saw a trend in ejidos disavowing their previously corporate citizen.
signed agreements and blocking access to mine sites.
The legal issue that arose for our subsidiary Minera Penmont, Responding to a changed Fair and in which ownership of the surface land of the Dipolos pit transparent land market environment and the beneficiation plant of the Soledad-Dipolos mine was negotiations are The most significant impact on performance in 2013 was the contested and ultimately returned to the Ejido El Bajo, must the basis for lasting decline in precious metal prices.
This was neither unforeseen be seen in this broader context.
More details can be found agreements nor remarkable, for us or to those who follow the industry on page 11. closely.
The Groups long experience in mining more than The operational implications for us were material, a century, in fact, under the Peoles umbrella has taught having suspended all mining and beneficiation activity at us to expect, plan for and manage through such cycles.
Soledad-Dipolos as well as mining activity at the larger Gold started the year at a high of over US$1,600 per ounce Herradura mine nearby, due to the temporary suspension and closed below US$1,300.
Our average realised gold price of the explosives permit it shared with Soledad-Dipolos.
was approximately US$1,400 per ounce, 16.3% less than in The permitting matter was resolved in early 2014 and we 2012.
Silver declined from its starting price of US$30.33 per expect gold production to gradually pick up at Herradura as ounce to US$19.47 at year end, with our average realised the leaching process stabilises over two to three months and silver price at $22.83 per ounce, 27.3% lower than in 2012. the new dynamic leaching plant commences production.
In the meanwhile, Noche Buena will help bolster the Groups This fall in precious metal prices over the course of the year gold production as it continues to ramp up to full capacity.
necessitated a review of exploration and capital expenditures, as part of our regular assessment of the Groups financial From a strategic perspective, the elevated risk of resources and requirements.
access to land brings with it new oversight and control requirements.
While we are not immune to opportunistic On managements recommendation, total investment in demands, we continue to believe that fair and transparent exploration for 2013 was reduced by 16.6% from the original land negotiations and productive relationships with local budget, to US$233.3 million.
Priority was given to projects communities and landowners are the basis for lasting within our current mining districts and to those with the best agreements.
It is my hope that the Mexican authorities will mineral potential.
Those same strict parameters will continue also take action to enforce land agreements and guarantee in 2014, for which US$225.0 million has been allocated to access to concession holders who take significant operating exploration and early project development, in line with our and financial risk.
growth strategy and commitment to maintaining the strongest exploration team in Mexico.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 9 Chairmans Statement continued The countrys current administration must be recognised Attributable We paid US$505.2 million in dividends in 2013, including for the comprehensive structural reforms presented to silver production US$304.1 million in May as the final dividend based on 2012 Congress in 2013 and subsequently approved.
This is was above plan at performance, US$36.1 million in September as an interim arguably Mexicos most important legislation in recent dividend for 2013, and US$165.0 million as an extraordinary 42.7 moz memory, with numerous new laws governing education, dividend in November for payments that shareholders may social security, energy, telecoms and banking, among others.
otherwise have expected to receive from dividends payable The country stands to benefit from job growth, increased in 2014. foreign investment and more cost-effective energy generation.
However, with scal reforms that include new Rethinking our balance sheet charges for mining companies on the basis of 7.5% of a base We place great value on our participation in international similar to EBITDA and 0.5% of gold and silver sales, it seems financial markets, not only for access to capital but also to our industry bears a disproportionate share of the burden, enhance our exposure to international regulations and best which may slow the industrys growth and the ability of practices that strengthen our business model and strategy.
some companies to operate their mines at a profit.
We recognise that remaining on the FTSE 100 would also be in the best interests of our current investor base.
Thus, Performance to comply with changes to the Rules of the FTSE UK Index Against this backdrop, Fresnillo plc continued to Series regarding minimum otation requirements, the move forward in executing its value creation strategy.
Company issued 19,733,430 new Ordinary Shares in 2013 Attributable silver production was above plan at 42.7 moz, for US$346.1 million, representing a capital increase of 2.74% compared to 41.0 moz in 2012.
Gold production of 425.8koz to provide a free oat of 25% of the Companys shares.
represented a 10.0% decline when compared to 2012, reecting the halt of operations at Soledad-Dipolos following Whilst the proceeds from that issuance and healthy free the aforementioned court order to vacate certain areas of cash ow provided us with a strong cash balance, we saw the surface land, as well as the temporary suspension of the a reason and opportunity to access the debt markets for explosives permit at Herradura that prevented new material the first time since our IPO.
First, the Group has taken on from being deposited on the leaching pads.
medium-term capex commitments to fund its planned growth projects at a time when no near-term catalyst can Two new mines are under construction: Saucito II, a be seen for a return to higher metal prices: second, the low silver project expected to be highly profitable, whose interest rate environment was seen as nearing its end: third, commissioning has been advanced by six months: and xed income investors still had appetite for mining debt: San Julin, a silver gold project whose start-up date has The Group issued and fourth, the Board recognised that taking on modest been deferred for 12 months in light of the need to construct new Ordinary debt would offer shareholders the potential for greater a water reservoir to complement underground water Shares representing returns.
My colleagues and I thus approved the issue of resources for the plant, as well as delays, now resolved, a capital increase of US$800.0 million in 5.500% Senior Notes due in 2023. in obtaining environmental and construction permits, and the need to ensure the security of our people and assets.
2.74% The diversity and quality of our portfolio allows for such exibility in terms of adapting to changing economic and technical circumstances without affecting the Groups growth prole.
Extensive exploration efforts in 2013 increased total resources, with encouraging contributions from the San Julin and Centauro Deep projects.
Silver and gold reserves declined somewhat, primarily due to the lower metal prices Development of the San Julin used to calculate cut-off grades as well as conservative mine, scheduled for start-up mine designs.
in mid-2015 Fresnillo plc reported adjusted revenue of US$1,761.9 million in 2013, down 23.0% from 2012, and EBITDA of US$729.8 million, 44.5% lower than in the previous year.
Attributable net profit, excluding Silverstream effects, was US$298.8 million, down 61.2%.
These gures reect the decline in average realised silver and gold prices, lower gold volumes and the unproductive costs related to the suspension at Soledad-Dipolos and limited operations at Herradura.
Notwithstanding, cost control measures and efficiency gains contributed to our profit margins and helped maintain our position in the lower quartile of the production cost curve.
| 10 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
