Chairmans statement Putting strong foundations in place John Connolly Chairman A YEAR OF CHANGE This is my second chairmans statement in a G4S annual report and it is fair to say that it marks the 2013 was always going to be a year of change.
Some board changes involving executive and non-executive directors had been planned completion of a year no less challenging than my and the foundations for those changes had been laid in 2012. fi first.
2013 was a year during which the group Nick Buckles, who had been chief executive of the group since 2005, underwent a great deal of change, at both board stepped down as CEO in May.
He was succeeded by Ashley Almanza, and senior management level, and also in some a high quality, respected executive with extensive international business experience, who became group CEO on 1 June 2013.
Mr Almanza had of the ways we conduct our business.
joined the group earlier in the year as CFO following the retirement of Trevor Dighton from that role.
In May, the UK Ministry of Justice MoJ announced concerns in relation to billing practices on our electronic monitoring contracts in England and Wales and commenced a review of all MoJ contracts held by G4S.
At the same time, the Cabinet Offi ce initiated a review of all our major UK Government contracts the Cross Government Review.
In response to the concerns raised by the MoJ, we appointed an DIVIDEND PER SHARE independent law fi rm and external accountants to look into the matter on behalf of the board.
We also co-operated with the MoJ and Cabinet Offi ce reviews.
Both the MoJ review and the Cabinet Offi ce review have now been completed and we reached settlement of claims raised 8.96p in relation to electronic monitoring and two other contracts in England.
2012: 8.96p 2 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report The UK Government is one of the groups largest customers and so REVENUE BY BUSINESS SERVICE % repairing the relationship and rebuilding our reputation, particularly in the UK market, has rightly been at the forefront of the work of the Cash solutions executive team and of the board.
This will take time and forms part 9 Secure solutions 16 of a wider transformation plan launched by the group CEO, which Care & Justice services includes organisational and process changes designed to strengthen customer focus, governance and contract management and control.
This transformation process is something which the UK Government has been keen to see, but it is important to stress that it is something which was already in progress and not just in the UK.
We welcomed fi five new members to the board during the year.
Three of them are non-executive directors: Adam Crozier and Paul 75 Spence, who joined the board in January, and Tim Weller, who joined in April: whilst Bo Lerenius and Lord Condon retired from the board in June.
There were also changes to the executive board members.
In addition to Nick Buckles' departure in May, Trevor Dighton stood down as CFO at the end of April and left the board in June.
Ashley Almanza FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE joined on 1 May as CFO before taking on the role of chief executive The group operates in many parts of the world and continues to offi cer from 1 June.
Himanshu Raja was appointed CFO in October.
provide critical services to thousands of customers to the highest In a fairly short space of time the make-up of the board has changed standards.
This underlying strength of the business was refl ected in signifi cantly, so it has been important to ensure that it retains the right the companys performance for 2013.
Underlying revenue growth of combination of knowledge of the group as well as expertise which is 5.8% was underpinned by 16% growth in emerging markets.
I believe we have a board which is diverse in Cash generated by continuing operations increased by 36%.
composition and well suited to the task: covering a broad spectrum in To strengthen the group's fi financial position, we raised approximately terms of professional background, experience, nationality and gender.
343 million net via a placing of new shares in August.
Together with a As announced previously, we undertook a thorough review of the disposals programme which has, to date, generated 124 million, and groups risk management function and systems in the fi first half of 2013. a strong focus on cash fl ow management, this will enable us to reduce The Risk Committee reviewed the fi findings of the review, and our debt and to invest in sustainable, profi table growth.
The Risk Committee We have a clear strategic plan and the board believes that the was constituted as a full board committee in 2013 to strengthen business has signifi cant growth opportunities and positive prospects.
support to the board in discharging its responsibilities regarding the The directors therefore propose a fi final dividend of 5.54p DKK 0.4954 maintenance of a framework of effective controls to enable risk to be per share, payable on 13 June 2014.
With an interim dividend of 3.42p assessed and managed.
The review process also led to important DKK 0.2972 per share paid on 18 October 2013, the total dividend changes to the risk function and the implementation of a new risk for the year will amount to 8.96p per share, the same as for 2012. management framework described in more detail on pages 36 to 41 of the Strategic Report.
In addition, the Risk Committee reviews and On behalf of the board I would like to thank the 618,000 employees reports to the board on the risk aspects of major developments that who make up the group for their hard work and dedication in 2013 affect the group and major contracts which the group enters into.
and their focus on doing what they do well.
It is with confi dence that I look forward to capturing the value in 2014 of all the groundwork As reported in the CEOs review, we have embarked upon a groupthat has been done in 2013. wide transformation responding to the signifi cant issues identifi ed over the last 18 months as the new executive team set the business on John Connolly track for future profi table growth.
This plan has embraced a bottom Chairman up business and strategy review bringing in a wide range of new senior executives in key roles, restructuring a number of businesses, a portfolio review of the groups businesses and a comprehensive review of fi nancials and fi financial disciplines.
Importantly the board approved managements extensive proposals for new processes and disciplines emphasising our key values around customer focus and integrity.
This part of the transformation along with the above mentioned emphasis on risk management will contribute to meeting the requirements of our key UK customer, UK Government, around corporate renewal.
We have taken on board the lessons we have learned from the challenges of 2013 and a great deal of effort continues to be focused on ensuring that we have the right people and the appropriate systems and processes in place to ensure the groups long-term success.
I believe we are on the right track.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 3
