Performance and dividend Chairmans statement The Group produced another strong financial performance, with Enhanced shareholder value record profits driven by growth in housebuilding.
This demonstrates the success of the first year of our new housebuilding strategy, as well as the improving housing market which particularly benefited from the Governments Help to Buy scheme from the start of April.
Our profit growth is especially notable given the difficult market conditions in construction, where we continue to pursue a prudent approach.
Appropriate risk management and lower construction activity resulted in a fall in revenues, as we expected.
Our financial position remains strong, giving us the resources we need to implement our strategy.
Galliford Try has This years results are a credit to Greg Fitzgerald and his executive team.
Gregs judgement and strategic acumen have been hugely beneficial to us in recent years, as has the excellent operational continued to deliver delivery throughout the Group.
This Last year, the board introduced an enhanced dividend policy, which substantially increased our payout to shareholders.
This year the board is recommending a final dividend of25 pence per years record profit share, an increase of 19%.
This will be paid on29 November 2013to shareholders on the register at 18 October 2013.
Together allows us to further with the interim dividend, which increased by 33% to 12 pence per share, this gives a total dividend for the year of37 pence, up 23%.
increase the dividend With the Group having achieved an 18% increase in earnings per share to 71.7 pence, the total dividend isapproximately 1.9 times covered by earnings.
and we arewell placed Strategy to create more value Our performance this year shows that the Group is following the right strategy in both its businesses.
Housebuilding has remained focused on the regions and market segments where it has real inthe future.
expertise and where the market has been strongest.
Its disciplined approach to growth is allowing it to focus on margin improvement, underpinning the Groups cash generation and our higher dividend payout.
The board continues to believe that this strategy will stand us in good stead.
Market conditions in construction are still challenging, so we remain focused on managing risk and selecting projects with the right margins and cash profiles, and where barriers to entry are high.
Our construction business continues to outperform its peers and we are well placed to resume growth when markets recover.
Earnings per share Up 18% 71.7p Dividend per share Up 23% 37.0p Ian Coull Chairman 06 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 s s e n e v i t c e f f E Business review p i h s r e d a e L S t r a Overall, the Groups performance demonstrates the continued People benefits of our hybrid model and the board will continue to ensure The foundations of our success are the skill and hard work of the model develops to meet the changing business environment ourpeople.
Housebuildings continued growth and our relative as well as delivering full value to shareholders.
Operating both strength in construction are testament to their dedication.
I thank housebuilding and construction businesses has been highly them all on the boards behalf.
successful for us, allowing us to deliver good performance at a Group level, even when one of our markets and the economy The last 12 months have seen considerable change to our senior istough.
Frank Nelson retired as finance director at the end of September 2012, having made a significant contribution to the Governance Group.
Graham Prothero took up the role on 1 February 2013, I am pleased to report that the standard of corporate governance joining us from Development Securities plc, where he had been in Galliford Try remains high and that we complied with the UK finance director since 2008.
Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
Towards the year end, the board underwent its first external evaluation.
This We were greatly saddened by Ian Bakers sudden ill health, looked at the operation of the board and its three subcommittees, whichforced him to step down in December from his positions as confirming that the board works effectively and that our nonGroup Managing Director of Housebuilding and a member of our executive directors contribute hugely to the Groups wellbeing.
Ian was a highly valued member of the team and we wish him well in his recovery.
Andrew Richards moved from his The evaluation noted the effectiveness of the board but also role as Managing Director of our PPP Investments business to highlighted areas where we could improve, notably by increasing become Group Managing Director of Housebuilding on 1 July clarity about succession and our long-term strategy.
Ken Gillespie, who leads our construction division, joined developing plans to address these.
More information on governance theboard on 1March.
generally can be found in theGovernance Report on page 48.
On behalf of the board I would like to thank both Frank Nelson and The board also reviewed Greg Fitzgeralds remuneration, reflecting Ian Baker for their contribution to the Group.
our view that pay should reflect performance.
After consultation with our largest shareholders and the Association of British These changes mean there were several months when two of our Insurers, we have increased Gregs base salary and potential most senior management positions were unfilled.
Many people bonus, to take into account the Groups excellent results and the stepped up to the mark to see us through and enable us to achieve pay offered by comparable companies as well as rewarding future the strong performance we had promised investors.
We believe Galliford Try has the right pay structure very grateful for their efforts.
to align our executives rewards with shareholders interests and the Groups long-term success.
Theremuneration policy and Conclusion and outlook implementation reviewon pages56 to64 sets out the details Our strategy has continued to deliver for shareholders and we ofour remuneration arrangements.
expect to make further progress from here.
The Group remains well financed, has an unique business model and has demonstrated its competitive strengths across its operations.
Ian Coull Chairman Summary of governance Strategy Shareholders What has the board The board focused the We prioritise effective achieved during Groupon its strategy of margin relationships with shareholders.
enhancement for housebuilding The chairman, chief executive and margin protection for and finance director met existing Leadership construction.
This included and prospective institutional The board ensured the Group developing our delegated shareholders.
The board also has the right leadership, through authority and internal consulted major shareholders on a number of senior management controlframeworks.
We also continued to consider Risk succession planning and We continued to refine boarddiversity.
ourinternal audit and risk management programmes, Effectiveness while improving performance The first external board and procedures in areas evaluation built on the strong spanning contingency processes developed in our planning, fraud awareness internal performance andon site processes.
It confirmed that theboard and its committees operate effectively.
For more information please refer to Governance from page 48 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 07 t e g y s r e d l o h e r a h S k s i R
