chairMaNs stateMeNt BOB LawsON A YEAR OF GOOD STRATEGIC PROGRESS I am pleased to report a year of good assets under IAS 41, as we anticipate genetics to make animal protein progress, as we implemented the a shift towards more genomic sales.
more affordable and sustainable, Group strategy that we introduced The prior year had benefited from tofeed a growing world population.
Following last years record an IAS 41 exceptional credit.
As we results, financial progress was more have consistently said, the nature As I reported last year, the limited, against a backdrop of very and volatility of this non-cash strategy started by focusing on challenging market conditions for accounting item does not reflect our our customers needs.
To serve the Groups customers.
Despite these underlying business performance.
them better, we introduced a tough conditions, Genus continued We therefore use adjusted profits new organisation that aligned our to invest in the capabilities it needs to report externally and to measure resources around species and key to capture the significant long-term our performance internally.
growth areas, with a particular focus growth opportunity for genetics.
This has enabled us to During the year, we reduced net focus on disseminating best practice The strategy and organisational debt to 52.9m, which is below around the world, whilst adapting our changes arising from Karims one times EBITDA.
This gives business to meet the unique needs strategic review gave Genus a the Group substantial financial of the major developing nations.
Aligning the flexibility to pursue its plans.
business around species and key Second, we renewed our emphasis customers has given the Group a Dividend on leading through innovation in clarity of purpose and energy that The Board is recommending a final research and development.
The early has been very evident to the Board.
dividend of 11.1 pence per share, results of this investment have been which together with the interim encouraging, such as the singleresults dividend of 5 pence per share, step genomic evaluation process Genuss results for the year to 30 would result in a dividend for the described on page 28.
This is just one June 2013 showed modest growth year of 16.1 pence per share, an of several initiatives Genus is pursuing.
on last years record performance.
increase of 10% over last years Revenues and adjusted operating dividend.
This continues our Finally, we said that we would ensure profit were at similar levels to the progressive dividend policy and that Genus had the right resources prior year, while adjusted profit reflects the Boards confidence in and competencies in key functions, before tax rose 2% to 47.2m.
It is proposed that such as supply chain, technical Once again, Asia led the way, with the final dividend will be paid on services and marketing, to deliver our profits rising by 14%.
However, 6 December 2013, to shareholders strategy.
The Group has made strong high feed costs and low output on the register at the close of progress in bringing highly talented prices for our customers held business on 22 November 2013. individuals into the organisation, back performance in the rest of to strengthen these areas.
In addition, we made strategy planned investments in resources to Following his appointment in A fuller discussion of our substantial strengthen our business.
Adjusted September 2011, Karim initiated progress with implementing our earnings per share grew 3% to 55p, a thorough strategic review.
We strategy can be found in Karims benefiting from a 1% lower tax rate.
announced the outcome of this Chief Executives Report report and process in May 2012.
Our focus in throughout the rest of this document.
On a statutory basis, profit before 2013 has been to implement this tax was lower than the previous year, strategy and to invest, so that Genus People due to a reduction in the fair value can seize the significant opportunities In March 2013, John Worby, our calculation of our bovine biological presented by the growing use of Group Finance Director since 2009, 08|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts The Group has made strong progress in bringing highly talented individuals into the organisation.
in summary 2013 was undoubtedly a difficult year for the global agricultural industry, which was severely affected by drought in the US and poor harvests in Europe.
Throughout this tough period, Genus continued to deliver growth on top of last years record results and made significant progress in fundamentally transforming its business and investing for growth.
The Board and I are confident that the business has never had stronger foundations to take advantage of the opportunities in the global market for animal genetics.
Bob Lawson chairman 2 September 2013 took a well-deserved retirement.
In addition to Tom and Stephen, John served Genus as both a Nonthe Genus Executive Leadership Executive and an Executive Director Team has been strengthened by the over eight years and contributed appointment of Saskia Korink Romani enormously to the Groups progress as Chief Marketing Officer.
In July, over this time, through his energy, Saskia took on the role of acting wisdom and skill.
He leaves us Chief Operating Officer, Genus ABS.
with our deeply felt thanks and very best wishes for the future.
Of course, so much of the driving force behind our business comes The Board was pleased to from the skills and capabilities of recruit Stephen Wilson as the our people, who operate in more new Group Finance Director.
I have He is already making a valued had the opportunity to meet many contribution as an Executive of them this year and I continue to Director and Board member.
In be impressed by their enthusiasm addition, we have welcomed Tom and professionalism.
On behalf of Kilroy as our new Group General the Board and our shareholders, Counsel & Company Secretary.
Iwould like to thank all of Genuss He brings a wealth of commercial, employees for their dedication intellectual property, legal and and commitment to achieving executive experience to the Group.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|09 Transforming Our Customers Herd Fertility Performance We know that efficiently producing high genetic quality pregnancies drives herd profitability, and that customers goals andproduction systems vary.
Our Reproductive Management System RMS team therefore optimises customers herd pregnancies by providing tailored solutions based on sound science, training and vast field experience.
In the UK and Ireland, RMS has grown rapidly to service 686 farms, with nearly 170,000 cows or 10% of the national herd.
The service is provided by 131 technicians, nine leaders and eight RMS trainers, supported by a technical services team.
Our unique combination of skilled people, accurate data and standardised working has transformed fertility performance.
The average pregnancy rate for UK and Ireland RMS customers herds is 18%, well above the national average of 14%.
RMS has also hugely influenced herd expansion and our customers businesses.
For example wehave worked with Bowe Dairy Farming Company as a breeding company and farm consultants since 1998.
Since then the business has grown from 80 to 600 cows.
RMS has been an integral support to the business since2007, helping the company achieve a pregnancy rateof 24%.
18% Average herd pregnancy rate for UK and Ireland RMS customers 14% national average 10|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 Our vaLues CustOMeR CentRiC Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|11
