CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MAINTAINING MOMENTUM MIKE TURNER CBE CHAIRMAN I am pleased to report another year of strong progress for GKN.
We have again delivered an excellent set of financial results.
Management sales increased to 7.6 billion reflecting good organic growth, and management profit before tax increased to 578 million a record for the Group.
Results and dividend Behind this consistently strong operational performance are clear strategic objectives described on page 15 and referred to throughout this annual report which support our aim of creating sustainable shareholder value in the form of steadily growing earnings and dividends.
In 2013 management earnings per share increased to 28.7p and the Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.3p per share, making a total of 7.9p per share for the year an increase of 10% over the prior year.
Strong cash flow generation remains a key focus to provide investment for growth, dividend progression and debt reduction.
2 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Board The Board has an important role in setting the Groups strategic objectives and ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve them.
During the year the non-executive Directors have provided constructive challenge to the executive Directors to ensure that the more detailed plans behind the strategy continue to be effective in supporting the growth and development of the Group.
In my role as Chairman, I am committed to creating a culture of openness, honesty and transparency in which all Directors can play their part in helping deliver our strategy.
The Board continues to uphold high standards of corporate governance further details are given in the Governance section of this report and we ensure that our effectiveness is reviewed and challenged each year with necessary improvement actions implemented in a timely manner.
With regard to Board membership and as I mentioned in my statement last year, John Sheldrick, a non-executive Director for over eight years, retired in May 2013 and Angus Cockburn joined the Board as a non-executive Director in January 2013.
At the beginning of 2014 we welcomed Adam Walker to the Board.
Adam joined us from Informa plc and his wide ranging financial management experience in international quoted companies will be a strong asset to the Company.
Adam succeeds Bill Seeger as Finance Director on Bills retirement from the Board on 25 February 2014.
Bills financial discipline, strong leadership and commitment have been key factors in the consolidation of the Groups financial strength and the creation of strong foundations for our future growth.
We thank him for his contribution and wish him every success in the future.
Our people I am continually impressed by the professionalism and commitment of our 49,700 employees worldwide.
Their efforts are critical to GKNs success and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank them all for their contribution in 2013.
GKNs future success is dependent upon a skilled and engaged workforce, which is influenced by our ability to recruit from a strong talent pool.
In particular, there is a pressing need for more engineering graduates and apprentices to meet the growing requirements of industry, and more needs to be done to inspire young people to consider careers which use STEM disciplines science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
The future We made significant progress during 2013 towards our strategic objectives.
We successfully integrated the aero engine business acquired from AB Volvo in late 2012, further strengthening GKN Aerospace and positioning us well to win future long term contracts.
The global footprint and technology capability of our Driveline and Powder Metallurgy businesses will enable us to take full advantage of continuing development and growth in global markets.
GKN Land Systems has continued its operational rigour throughout difficult market conditions.
The importance of operational excellence to the achievement of our strategy cannot be underestimated.
The application of GKN Lean manufacturing techniques throughout our production and business processes, our continued focus on the development of technologies to help differentiate our product offerings, our global presence and leading positions in many of our markets all provide strong foundations for sustainable value generation.
I look forward to the future with confidence.
