Strategic report Chairmans statement Chairmans statement To shareholders The value of the significant changes that have been made in recent years is evidenced in our performance this year It is clear from the following pages that Through the Audit & Risk Committee, we Since Sir Andrew became the Group made good progress against oversee the issues and challenges faced by CEO, the company has its strategy in 2013. management, and encourage the creation of an environment in which GSK can achieve The Board believes the business is seeing returned 30 billion its strategic ambitions in a responsible and the benefits of the significant changes the sustainable manner.
management team has driven over recent years to deliver sustainable growth, reduce I have no doubt that commercial success is risk and enhance returns to shareholders.
directly linked to operating in a responsible way and which meets the changing expectations of The notably strong performance from the society.
In this respect, the company continues R&D organisation in 2013 with six major to adopt industry-leading positions on a range new product approvals in areas including of issues.
respiratory disease, HIV and cancer is critical to the longer-term prospects of the The announcement of plans during 2013 Group.
That this has been achieved at the to evolve the way the business interacts with same time as R&D is effectively managing its healthcare professionals and pays sales staff cost base to deliver an improved estimated rate are developments I was particularly pleased of return of 13% is particularly encouraging.
It is worth noting that since Sir Andrew In the same way the Board strongly supports the commitments the company has made to became CEO, GSKs market capitalisation has grown from approximately 55 billion advance transparency around clinical trial to around 80 billion and the company has data, and welcomes the subsequent actions returned some 30 billion to shareholders of other companies in this field.
Over time, via 20 billion of dividends and 10 billion it is to be hoped these steps will advance of share buy-backs.
medical science and improve patient care.
The allegations of fraudulent behaviour by Risk management and commitment certain employees within our business in to ethical behaviour China are wholly contrary to the companys The Board aims to assure the integrity of values.
In addition to the Chinese Government GSKs business operations through rigorous investigation, we have commissioned an processes and systems and during the year, independent review of our Chinese operations risk management was once again a key part by the law firm Ropes and Gray, and we will of the Boards discussions.
implement all appropriate actions as necessary on conclusion of these investigations.
2 GSK Annual Report 2013 Board gender diversity Regarding composition of the Board, our Governance and remuneration priority is to have diversity in terms of gender, We have been mindful of the changes outlined 12 length of tenure and business experience in the new UK Narrative and Remuneration 12 across developed and emerging markets.
Reporting regulations and this Annual Report 10 10 10 During the year, GSK had 33% female adheres to the new reporting standards.
8 representation on the Board, a level that In particular, this years Remuneration exceeds the original aspiration to have 25% 6 Report comprises two parts that will each by the start of 2013.
The Board firmly believes 5 5 require shareholder approval at the Groups 4 that a diverse balance of experience, insight, forthcoming AGM.
Further details are set perspectives and background among its 3 2 out in Tom fide Swanns letter to shareholders Board members is in the best long-term on page 96 of this Report.
0 interests of the Group and its shareholders.
2011 2012 2013 Board changes and composition Prospects Female There were a number of changes to the Board Male In closing, the Board would like to thank during the year.
I would like to thank Sir Crispin Sir Andrew and his executive team for their Davis, who stood down in May, for his valuable commitment during a year in which the contributions over nearly ten years of service.
Group once again demonstrated its ability In April, we were pleased to have Hans Wijers to deliver innovation while constantly striving join the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
I am confident the His extensive experience of running global Group will continue to identify and grasp the companies has already proved to be of great many opportunities that will strengthen GSKs value to Board discussions.
performance, reward its shareholders, and create sustainable long-term value for society.
There were also planned changes in the Chairmanships of several Board Committees.
Tom fide Swaan succeeded Sir Crispin Davis as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Judy Lewent succeeded Tom as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee, with Tom remaining as a member of that committee.
In addition, I would like to thank Sir Deryck Maughan for agreeing to remain on the Board Sir Christopher Gent for up to an additional two years having Chairman succeeded Sir Robert Wilson as Senior Independent Director in May.
Sir Derycks considerable experience and knowledge of GSKs businesses will provide continuity and balance.
Finally, Sir Robert Wilson stands down at the 2014 AGM after ten years of exceptional service and I would like to thank him for his longstanding commitment to the Group.
