Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Chairmans introduction & Board of Directors Dear Shareholders, The Board continues to keep abreast of changes to corporate governance reporting regulations.
This year 2013 was a transformational year for Glencore during has seen the culmination of several years of policy which the Company has doubled in size and enhanced development with the finalisation of UK regulation its position as one of the worlds largest producers and legislation affecting the structure and contents of the marketers of commodities.
Our business, as a vertically Annual Report.
Although a Jersey company, as a London integrated producer and marketer of commodities, is premium listed entity we have amended our governance unique among our peer group, allowing us to create and reporting to take into account these new reporting capture value at every stage of the commodities chain.
Changes to remuneration reporting in particular are significant and as a result our Remuneration In May, our acquisition of Xstrata finally completed after Report has been substantially altered in layout and content.
The planned successful integration of the Xstrata operations into Glencore has been completed, Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE Listing with minimal impact on the day-to-day running of the Group.
The only material issue outstanding from the Following our listing on the JSE in November, I am pleased acquisition is satisfaction of the Chinese Ministry of to welcome a number of new shareholders to Glencore.
Commerces copper asset divestment requirements This secondary listing is a significant step for the Company which are required to be completed this year.
and demonstrates the confidence we have in Africa as a place in which we can do business and invest.
Board activities Safety The Xstrata acquisition has led to considerable changes in the Board.
Upon completion of the Xstrata transaction there It is with deep sadness that I must report the loss of 26 lives were a number of Board changes.
The Boards number was at our combined operations during 2013.
Any fatality is reduced to four at the AGM in May.
Immediately following totally unacceptable and one of the Boards main objectives the meeting I was appointed as your Interim Chairman.
is to bring about lasting improvements to our safety culture.
In June the Board was delighted to welcome three We are overseeing the formulation and implementation additional Directors: John Mack, Peter Grauer and of enhanced safety processes and receive updates at every Peter Coates.
Board meeting on the progress being made.
Each new Director has brought to the Board an excellent During 2013, we launched SafeWork.
SafeWork is an business track record and extensive international initiative that has the full endorsement of the Board and is experience.
The wide-ranging backgrounds and strong being rolled out to all our operations and projects and track records of all the Non-Executive Directors allow involves our managers, employees and contractors challenge and informed support to be provided to working together to eliminate fatalities and serious injuries.
Through the SafeWork programme we have identified the main causes of fatalities in our business, which has led to The Boards Nomination Committee is continuing its search the development of 12 Fatal Hazard Protocols and a set of process for both a permanent Chairman and an additional Life-Saving Behaviours.
We are working hard to achieve Director who would ideally bring greater diversity to the meaningful and sustainable changes in this area.
We are consulting with our major external shareholders as part of this exercise.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 76 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Sustainable Development Our values In May, we rolled out a new set of Values and an updated Code of Conduct, which were both compiled to better Entrepreneurialism reflect our new company.
Together, our Values and the Code represent our commitment to upholding good Our approach fosters the highest level of professionalism, business practice.
It is this commitment that was recognised personal ownership and entrepreneurial spirit in all our by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index to which Glencore employees while never compromising on the safety and wellwas admitted in October 2013.
Our admission so soon after being of our people.
This is important to our success and the the completion of the Xstrata transaction represents a superior returns we aim to achieve for all our stakeholders.
significant achievement for the Group.
Simplicity Our core values, entrepreneurialism, simplicity, safety, responsibility and openness, reflect our purpose, our priorities We aim to achieve our key deliverables as a path to industryand the fundamental tenets by which we conduct business.
leading returns, while maintaining a clear focus on excellence, These principles reflect the spirit of our business and we quality, sustainability and continuous improvement in expect all our employees to bring them to life during their everything we do.
Our new Code of Conduct puts into practice our Values and everybody working for the Company, Safety regardless of role or location must comply with the Code.
Our first priority in the workplace is to protect the health and We are currently in the process of formally requesting well-being of all our workers.
We take a proactive approach to admission to the Voluntary Principles on Security and health and safety: our goal is continuous improvement in Human Rights VPs.
These voluntary principles provide preventing occupational disease and injuries.
critical guidance on managing security and human rights, especially for companies operating in challenging Responsibility environments.
Formally joining the VPs will provide opportunities to further strengthen our commitment to We recognise that our work can have an impact on our human rights, share and learn from best practice and society and the environment.
We care profoundly about improve our approach to collaborating with governments our performance in compliance, environmental protection, and civil society.
human rights and health and safety.
In November, we watched with great concern the Openness devastation Typhoon Haiyan caused to the people of the Philippines.
In partnership with our Philippines-based We value relationships and communication based on integrity, PASAR operations, we made a donation of $2 million to co-operation, transparency and mutual benefit, with our assist the local communities to recover from this people, our customers, our suppliers, governments and society catastrophic event.
The unique position of our Company in the resources sector and the strength of our management team provide me with great confidence that Glencore is best placed to meet the ongoing challenge of sustainably producing and supplying commodities that are needed to meet the demands of developing and developed economies.
I am confident that our Company will strive to not only meet but will exceed the expectations placed on us by our stakeholders.
Tony Hayward Interim Chairman Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 77 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Chairmans introduction & Board of Directors 2, 4 Anthony Hayward Interim Chairman age 56 Anthony Hayward was appointed Interim Independent Following a series of technical and commercial roles Non-Executive Chairman in May 2013 and was previously in Europe, Asia and South America, he returned to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
London in 1997 as a member of the upstream executive committee.
He became group treasurer in 2000, chief Dr Hayward is chief executive officer of Genel Energy plc executive for BP upstream activities and member of the LON:GENL, a partner and member of the European main Board of BP in 2003. advisory Board of AEA Capital and chairman of Compact GTL Limited.
Dr Hayward studied geology at Aston University in Birmingham and completed a Ph.
D. at Edinburgh Dr Hayward was group chief executive of BP plc from University.
He is also a fellow of the Royal Society 2007 to 2010, having joined BP in 1982 as a rig geologist of Edinburgh and holds honorary doctorates from in the North Sea.
the University of Edinburgh, Aston University and the University of Birmingham.
2 Ivan Glasenberg Chief Executive Officer age 57 Ivan Glasenberg joined Glencore in April 1984 and has In January 1990, he was made responsible for the been Chief Executive Officer since January 2002. worldwide coal business of Glencore for both marketing and industrial assets, and remained in this role until he Mr Glasenberg initially spent three years working in became Chief Executive Officer in January 2002. the coal commodity department in South Africa as a marketer, before spending two years in Australia as head Mr Glasenberg is a Chartered Accountant of South Africa of the Asian coal commodity division.
Between 1988 and and holds a Bachelor of Accountancy from the University 1989, he was based in Hong Kong as head of Glencores of Witwatersrand.
Mr Glasenberg also holds an MBA Hong Kong and Beijing offices, as well as head of coal from the University of Southern California.
He is marketing in Asia, where his responsibilities included currently a non-executive director of United Company overseeing the Asian coal marketing business of Glencore Rusal plc HKG:0486.
Before joining Glencore, Mr and managing the administrative functions of the Hong Glasenberg worked for five years at Levitt Kirson Kong and Beijing offices.
Chartered Accountants in South Africa.
2 Peter Coates AO Non-Executive Director age 68 Peter Coates became a Non-Executive Director on He was non-executive chairman of Xstrata Australia from 1 January 2014.
In June 2013 Mr Coates was appointed January 2008 until August 2009.
From April 2008 until an Executive Director.
His executive responsibilities April 2011, he was non-executive chairman of Minara concerned integration of the Xstrata acquisition.
He was appointed as an independent These responsibilities came to an end on 31 December non-executive director of the company in April 2011 and 2013.
He therefore became a Non-Executive Director on stepped down upon the Xstrata acquisition taking place 1 January 2014. in May 2013.
Mr Coates is non-executive chairman of Sphere Minerals Limited ASX:SPH, a non-executive Prior to joining Glencore in 1994 as a senior executive in director of Santos Limited ASX:STO and Amalgamated the coal department, Mr Coates had occupied many Holdings Limited ASX:AHD, and a past chairman of senior positions in a diverse range of resource companies, the Minerals Council of Australia, the NSW Minerals including those mining silver, lead, nickel, iron ore, Council and the Australian Coal Association.
When Glencore sold its Australian and South African coal assets to Xstrata in 2002, he joined Mr Coates holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Mining Xstrata as chief executive of its coal business, stepping Engineering from the University of New South Wales.
He was appointed to the Office of the Order of Australia in June 2009 and awarded the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Medal for 2010.
1, 3 Leonhard Fischer Independent Non-Executive Director age 51 Leonhard Fischer was appointed an Independent Mr Fischer was chief executive officer of Winterthur Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Group from 2003 to 2006 and a member of the executive board of Credit Suisse Group from 2003 to March 2007.
Mr Fischer was appointed chief executive officer of RHJ He joined Credit Suisse Group from Allianz AG, where International S. A. EBR:RHJI in January 2009, having he had been a member of the management board and been co-chief executive officer from May 2007.
He has head of the Corporates and Markets Division.
Prior to been a member of the board of directors of RHJ this, he had been a member of the executive board of International S. A. since 18 September 2007.
He is chief Dresdner Bank AG in Frankfurt.
executive officer of Kleinwort Benson Group and chairman of the board of directors at Kleinwort Benson Mr Fischer holds an M. A. in Finance from the University Bank Ltd.
He is also a member of the board of directors of Georgia.
at Julius Baer Gruppe AG VTX:BAER.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 78 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 1, 3 William Macaulay Independent Non-Executive Director age 68 William Macaulay was appointed as an Independent Mr Macaulay is chairman of the board of Dresser-Rand Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
NYSE:DRC, chairman of the board of CHC Group Ltd NYSE:HELI, and a director of Weatherford International Mr Macaulay is the chairman and chief executive officer NYSE:WFT.
He also serves on numerous private energy of First Reserve Corporation, a private equity investment company boards.
In addition, he is chairman of the firm focused on the energy industry, and has been with advisory board of the City University of New York.
the company since its founding in 1983.
A. degree with honours Prior to joining First Reserve, Mr Macaulay was a in Economics from City College of New York, and an co-founder of Meridien Capital Company, a private MBA from the Wharton School of the University of equity buyout firm.
From 1972 to 1982, he was with Pennsylvania.
He has also received an Honorary Doctor Oppenheimer & Co. where he served as director of of Humane Letters degree from Baruch College.
corporate finance with direct responsibility for the firms buyout business.
He also served as president of Oppenheimer Energy Corporation.
1, 4 Peter Grauer Independent Non-Executive Director aged 68 Peter Grauer was appointed as an Independent Mr Grauer is a director of Davita Healthcare Partners Non-Executive Director in June 2013.
NYSE:DVA, a healthcare services company.
Mr Grauer is also a member of the International Business Council of Mr Grauer is chairman of Bloomberg Inc. the global the World Economic Forum, the UNC Chapel Hill board financial media company that was founded in 1981. of trustees and a trustee of Rockefeller University.
Mr Grauer was chairman and chief executive officer from 2002 to 2011 and has been a member of Bloombergs Mr Grauer graduated from the University of North board of directors since 1996.
Carolina and the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Program for Management Development in 1975.
Prior to this, Mr Grauer was managing director of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from 1992 to 2000 when DLJ was acquired by Credit Suisse First Boston and founder of DLJ Merchant Banking.
He served as managing director and senior partner of CSFB Private Equity until 2002.
3, 4 John Mack Independent Non-Executive Director aged 69 John Mack was appointed as an Independent Before rejoining Morgan Stanley as chairman and chief Non-Executive Director in June 2013. executive officer in June 2005, Mr Mack served as co-chief executive officer of Credit Suisse Group and chief Mr Mack previously served as chief executive officer executive officer of Credit Suisse First Boston.
of Morgan Stanley from June 2005 until December 2009.
He retired as chairman in 2011.
Mr Mack first joined Mr Mack is a non-executive director of OJSC Rosneft Oil Morgan Stanley in May 1972, becoming a board director Company OTCMKTS:RNFTF and of Enduring Hydro in 1987 and was named President in 1993. and Corinthian Ophthalmic.
He is also non-executive chairman of Tri-Alpha Energy Inc. Mr Mack also serves on the Advisory Board of China Investment Corporation, is a member of the International Business Council of the World Economic Forum, the NYC Financial Services Advisory Committee and the Shanghai International Financial Advisory Council.
Mr Mack is a graduate of Duke University Committee membership at the end of 2013 is designated as follows: 1 Audit 2 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities HSEC 3 Remuneration 4 Nomination denotes Committee chair John Burton Company Secretary age 49 John Burton was appointed Company Secretary in September 2011.
He was formerly company secretary and general counsel of Informa plc and before that a partner at CMS Cameron McKenna in London specialising in corporate law.
A. degree in Law from Durham University.
He was admitted as a Solicitor in England and Wales in 1990.
