Chairmans statement ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR On the back of our strong growth, wearerecommending a final dividend of19.45p per share, up 7.5%.
Thesemainly come from Pub Partners, a number of additional disclosures Results fromwhich we disposed of 103 sites in the consistent with the governments proposed We have achieved another set of record year.
In total, the disposed properties new regulations on remuneration reporting.
results, despite the difficult weather raisedproceeds of28.0m.
These regulations will apply to the company conditions in the second half of the year.
Revenue was 1,194.7m, up 4.8%, and operating profit before exceptionals was Board 248.2m, up 5.1%.
Profit before tax and People At the end of December, we bade farewell exceptional items was 162.0m, up 6.6%, toNorman Murray, who served on our board Our consistent growth and success could while adjusted earnings per share was as a non-executive director for nine years, not have been achieved without the hard 57.0p, up 7.5%.
and acted as chairman of both the audit and work and efforts of our 22,000 employees the remuneration committees during that across the business.
They combine to make time.
I would like to express my sincere Greene King the company that it is and Dividend thanks to him for the substantial contribution deliver the greatest source of competitive On the back of these record results and he made to the board and wish him well for advantage for our shareholders, particularly strong growth, the board has recommended the future.
in such a demanding trading environment.
a final dividend of 19.45p per share, up 7.5% on last year.
This takes the total dividend In October, we welcomed Lynne Weedall I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks for the year to 26.6p per share, up 7.3%.
toour board as a non-executive director to every one of our team for their personal Thefinal dividend is expected to be paid andmember of the remuneration committee.
Looking ahead, on9 September 2013 to those shareholders She has subsequently become chairman of we do not expect short-term conditions to on the register at the close of business that committee.
She is the HR and strategy improve but I am confident that the team on9August 2013. director at Carphone Warehouse and we atGreene King will continue to drive the expect her business background to be a business forward and deliver further success.
Acquisitions great asset to us.
In the year, we have made further progress with the expansion of our Retail business.
Governance Tim Bridge We spent 35.3m on 24 new pubs and have The board continues to set itself high Chairman exchanged or completed on a further 30 sites standards of corporate governance, 26 June 2013 for development.
supported by its nomination, remuneration and audit committees.
The corporate Disposals governance section in this report shows We also remain focused on disposing of sites details of our compliance with the UK that we consider no longer have a long-term Corporate Governance Code and our sustainable future within our estate.
directors remuneration report incorporates 5 www.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC
