14 Chairmans Statement Dennis Millard Chairman This has been another difficult year for the UK consumer and Halfords In July 2012, the Board felt that a change at the top of the organisation was also faced with its own particular challenges.
Our customers was necessary and David Wild, who had been Group Chief Executive continued to have their discretionary incomes squeezed and high since August 2008, left the Company.
I was asked by the Board to step fuel prices and insurance costs once again resulted in a decrease in up as Interim Executive Chairman until a new Group Chief Executive miles driven by our automotive customers.
Whilst reluctant to blame was in place.
In October 2012, Matt Davies joined Halfords as CEO the weather, the wet summer and record cold winter were certainly and I resumed my non-executive role in November 2012.
We are not conducive to the pursuit of outdoor activities by our cycling delighted with Matts appointment.
It follows his considerable success and camping customers!
Nevertheless, the spirit of the nation was at Pets at Home where he had been CEO for some eight years.
We uplifted by the joy and the resounding success of the Olympics and were particularly taken by the exceptional colleague engagement Paralympics.
All of these macro factors had, in their own way, an effect and customer service levels he had achieved at Pets at Home.
These on the performance of Halfords and provided us with both challenges were two areas that had worryingly slipped in Halfords and the extent and opportunities.
became more evident to me during my executive tenure: it was therefore critical that this be urgently addressed.
Group revenues increased by 1.0% with a decline in Retail sales of 0.9% offset by 13.5% growth in Autocentres.
In Retail, the Car Following his appointment, Matt was tasked with reviewing the current Maintenance category grew strongly, Cycling was down marginally, Car strategy and plans for the business and the organisational capability.
Enhancement declined at a much lower rate than in prior years and This has now been completed and the outcome set out below is Travel Solutions, which includes our camping products, also declined.
fully supported by the Board who, along with Matts executive team, The growth in sales for Autocentres was due to our investments which were an integral part of the review process.
have increased market share, boosted tyre sales and added 23 new centres.
Group gross margin was unchanged at 54.8% with a marginal Firstly, the three pillars of the existing strategy were considered to be rise in Retail and a decrease in Autocentres, due primarily to product sound but were redefined to the following to inject more passion and a mix.
Total underlying operating costs rose by 6.2% due to investment clearer purpose: in colleague headcount, recruitment and training, increased occupation costs, a rise in marketing spend and investment in new Autocentres.
Supporting Drivers of Every Car Interest costs also rose.
As a result, underlying profit before tax Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age decreased by 21.9% to 72.0m and basic EPS by 17.8% to 27.7p Equipping Families for their Leisure Time.
Free cash flow of 71.8m was generated and net debt was down 28.6m to 110.6m with net debt to EBITDA at 1.1 times.
Secondly, it was considered that the plans in place for the Autocentres business to increase its network by 20 to 30 centres per annum and invest in capability were also sound, and that the returns that would be generated and the opportunities to continue to take market share were attractive.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 The three pillars of the existing strategy were considered to be sound but were redefined to inject more passion and a clearer purpose.
Driving attachment sales and return customers with bike care plans For the Retail business, the review underscored the need to invest in We have carefully considered the financial implications of the new our colleagues to enable them to best serve customers and to invest strategy and concluded that, given the need to maintain a robust in our store, operations and IT infrastructures.
The most pressing need balance sheet and our desire to rebuild our dividend cover to a more was to address the root causes of our less than optimum service sustainable level, our dividend should be rebased.
The Board has thus offer and ethic.
Crucially, the key to success was to put in place plans recommended a final dividend of 9.1 pence per share, a reduction of to deliver top line growth that, in turn, would restore profitability and 35.0% on the prior year, resulting in a full-year dividend of 17.1 pence, produce attractive and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
The intention would be to reset the full year dividend plans, which have been named Getting Into Gear 2016, are fully laid for the next three years to around 14 pence per share which would out in the Annual Report and will be implemented over the next three enable us to remain within our gearing target of net debt to EBITDA of years.
They are summarised as follows: 1.5 times and, over the period, converge towards a more sustainable dividend cover of 2 times.
Service Revolution: introducing a marked step change in the quality of our service offer by investing in training, staffing and inOn behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our 12,000 store capability.
colleagues for their patience and commitment during a difficult year.
Also, I thank them for the enthusiastic manner in which they have The H Factor: reasserting our authority across our key categories embraced the new direction and for their dedication to raising service to excite our customers.
The new executive team under Matt is Stores Fit to Shop: investing in our store estate to raise standards taking shape well and they are up for the challenges and opportunities and improve our customer experience.
Lastly, I would like to thank my Board colleagues for their 21st Century Infrastructure: investing in systems and dedication, counsel and support in what has been a very eventful infrastructure.
Paul McClenaghan, who left the Board last month, did so with Click with the Digital Future: creating a contemporary and our best wishes.
In conclusion, the new financial year has started in a positive vein The specific initiatives underpinning these plans are now in place and and encouraging progress is already being made on some of our key the key milestones, or KPIs, by which we will measure our progress are initiatives.
Most notably, however, is the sense of purpose, excitement set out in this report.
Crucially, both our annual and long-term incentive and engagement that is evident throughout the organisation this plans will be similarly aligned.
Over the three year period it is envisaged bodes well for the years ahead.
that some 100m of Retail Capital Expenditure will be necessary, c. 40m more than prior run rates.
In addition, revenue investment of Dennis Millard 7m14m will be made in FY14 primarily in our colleague capability: Chairman however, this will be dependent upon performance and revenue 23 May 2013 generation.
This will have the inevitable consequence on earnings and cash flows in the next three years but will set up the business for an attractive and sustainable future in the years ahead.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Introduction www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 16 Read online: halfords.
com strategy 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 17 Strategy Strategic Pillars 18 Group Strategy 20 Chief Executive Officers Review 24 Transforming Halfords 34 Service Revolution 36 The H Factor 38 Stores Fit to Shop 40 21st Century Infrastructure 42 Click with the Digital Future 44 Finance Directors Report 46 Risks and Uncertainties 52 Corporate Responsibility Report 56 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
