CHAIRMANS STATEMENT progressive dividends from Halma, have been able to educate my... the performance over children.
So thank you, welcome to Halma Mr Unwin.
He then xed me with a look that said and dont mess it up it may have been these years is due to a truly stronger!.
It then really struck home what a privileged and onerous responsibility I had taken on.
dedicated team of people Glancing back across the Group.
So what has changed over the ten years?
Firstly, what has not changed is the fundamental business model: our companies operate in niche markets where demand is underpinned by strong growth drivers.
They produce high returns on sales and capital, and those returns go to pay taxes, dividends and reinvestment in the business, including buying more companies with A glance backwards and a glimpse forwards similar characteristics.
All this is embraced by strong reporting and As previously announced, I will be stepping down from the Board controls.
immediately after the AGM on 25 July 2013.
Halma has only had two Chairmen in the past 40 years, the founder, David Barber, and myself.
One significant change was the appointment of Andrew Williams as When David stepped down in July 2003 he departed from the annual CEO in February 2005, only the third CEO in Halmas history.
Andrew reporting format of commenting on the years results and instead provides clear, calm, insightful leadership and the Groups reected on some of Halmas achievements over the years.
I thought performance under his tenure speaks for itself.
He is a pleasure to I would do the same, as the results are reported fully elsewhere in this work with.
report, save to say that 2012 13 was another record year and we are Our strategy has been sharpened, and the framework under which recommending a dividend increase of 7%, the 34th year of increases we operate more clearly dened detailed in this Annual Report.
Delegation and strong autonomy has been re-enforced at the Welcome to Halma Mr Unwin subsidiary company level.
Our Managing Directors have huge My first AGM was in July 2003 and what immediately struck me was freedom to operate and to innovate in response to what their the number of private shareholders who were there all passionate customers are telling them.
This freedom also generates high Halma followers.
One gentleman came up to me and said, I have job satisfaction.
been a loyal shareholder for many years and thanks to the 4Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Business review 10-59 Governance 60-86 Financial statements 87-147 The necessary financial and management resources have been put In the period since March 2003 we have increased our dividend in place to support our strategy.
per share by 79% declaring 300m of dividends for shareholders.
Halmas market capitalisation has increased nearly five-fold and Acquisitions: our Divisional Chief Executives DCEs are we have become one of the top 150 companies on the tasked with identifying suitable acquisitions.
The pressure on their London Stock Exchange.
time was such that we found we were not seeing sufficient opportunities and when we decided to put money to work we A glimpse forwards could not always reach our goals.
So, we strengthened our The basic model is sound and our strategy, which is kept under acquisition sourcing efforts with a few highly experienced challenging review, will evolve, just as it has done over the years.
executives to support the DCEs.
Our recent acquisition history More and more of our subsidiary boards will have to deal with the illustrates that this is working effectively but, there will continue challenge of moving from domestic, single continent operations to to be times when we decide that the economic climate or prices global, multi-continent operations.
As we know, this is not a trivial are not favourable and therefore we will stand aside for a while.
matter and the model that works best for each company will largely Geographic expansion: we recognised that we were underweight be dictated by the structure of their customers.
in the faster growing economies and unless addressed, our growth To compete we have to have the best teams, so training, would suffer.
The problem was how to make it easier for our development and talent spotting will continue to increase companies to enter those markets?
Our solution was to create in importance.
hubs in China and India with other sector-based hubs now following staffed by people with the remit to do whatever was 2016 or thereabouts will be a key year: the year when China is necessary to make it easier for our companies to start operating forecast to overtake the USA as the worlds biggest economy there.
One can see a logical progression of our business in, say, according to the OECD after accounting for price differences.
We start with a hub, then increase local sales through our will have a profound effect.
For Halma, it means that the centre of regional ofces, then local product assembly, then local R&D.
As a gravity of R&D will change, and thats only three years ahead!
result more MDs are resident in the region and nally we start to These changes will test our structures, but I know Halma will rise acquire companies, e. g. Longer Pump acquired this year in China.
In 2003 under 10% of our business came from Asia Pacic, this year it is over 16% and in China our headcount has moved from 70 Progress up the FTSE also brings new pressures.
We have made a significant investment and the foundations people will be aware of Halma.
are strong for growth in the future.
Finally, for sure, the pace of business and innovation will not get Incentives.
At the beginning of the period, bonuses were rarely any slower.
I used to say in a previous life, that what used to take achieved and options were under-water.
We refreshed the total us nine months to achieve would shortly be required in nine weeks remuneration framework based around Economic Value Added EVA and then, who knows, nine days!
together with introducing new long-term incentives all aligned with our strategy and adding shareholder value.
Shareholders can see very I hope this gives some insight into the way Halma has evolved over clearly that in very good years bonuses will hit their maximum and the last ten years and gives a glimpse to the future.
in poor years may well be zero.
No surprises there, What is certain is that these changes, and the performance over they are based on EVA.
It was also attering to hear that one of our these years is due to a truly dedicated team of people across the major shareholders cites the Halma remuneration scheme as a model Group.
It is their focus on our customers and the markets they serve for others!
To everyone in Halma, I say a sincere thank Much emphasis has also been placed on the quality of our company you for all that you have achieved, you have made my role a pleasure.
boards, particularly against the ever-increasing demands of global I should also like to thank my predecessor, David Barber, for making markets.
Formal management training has been introduced tailored my induction into the Company he founded so smooth: to all my to our needs.
This started with the Halma Executive Development colleagues on the Board, they have been terric, both challenging Programme and now runs right through to our own graduate and supportive as needed.
This has also encouraged our companies to develop training programmes of their own.
Finally, in Paul Walker, we have a highly successful international businessman with the relevant experience and the right personal We have taken steps on gender diversity at the Board level, although attributes to chair Halma to even greater heights.
I look forward at the company level it is much more difficult unless more female to you welcoming him at the AGM.
talent is encouraged throughout our operations.
Pleasingly, in 2013, the majority of our graduate programme recruits are female.
A number of promotions have come from within so that people Geoff Unwin can see career opportunities across the Group not just their Chairman own company.
There has been a major shift in sharing and co-operation, helped by our training programmes and using technology intranets and social media to enable it.
We introduced a Halma Innovation and Technology Exposition four years ago, which is now held every two years to enable all the companies to share their innovation and technology with other Halma companies.
This event has become more and more powerful and effective: there is a palpable buzz in the air.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5
