10 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 CHAIRMAN ALAN THOMSON OUR YEAR CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am encouraged by the performance of the Group this year.
To have delivered such a resilient financial result, including a return to profit in the UK, is a significant achievement given the fragile market backdrop we have faced.
1 Group net fees decreased by 1% in 2013, with good growth in our CORPORATE & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CE&RoW division offset by a decrease in Asia Pacic and a broadly A summary of our approach to all aspects at net fee performance in the UK & Ireland.
We experienced marked of corporate & social responsibility and an differences in market conditions around the world over the year, update on our progress.
Pg40 which were prone to rapid change.
As an example, net fees in our 1 Australian Resources & Mining business fell by more than 30% in the year, as concerns regarding the global economic outlook OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK saw activity levels there slow.
In contrast, elsewhere 14 countries Including a description of our governance 1 delivered net fee growth of over 10% in the year, including Canada framework, the structure and purpose of our 1 which grew by 31% and where we invested signicantly in the year Board committees and how we engage with to capitalise upon this buoyant market.
In France, however, market shareholders.
Pg47 conditions became very difficult, but the strength of our French team was in evidence as they built market share, grew net fees yearon-year, and expertly managed their cost base to deliver improved OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS profit a stand-out performance.
On the next page you can nd a Biographies of each of our executive and summary of our year as it unfolded by quarter.
Pg48 Returning the UK business to profit was a key objective at the start of the year and I am particularly pleased to report that we have delivered this.
Achieving a 12.1 million improvement in operating REMUNERATION REPORT profit is a good result in a market which remained tough and I Detail of the remuneration of our executive applaud the efforts of everyone in our UK team.
They have directors in the year, including an explanation impressed me with their focus on improving productivity, their of the methodologies we use.
Pg66 discipline on controlling costs and most importantly their ability to capitalise on those opportunities that were available.
Indeed, as I have travelled around the Group this year, visiting Hays offices in Singapore, Australia, Canada, Japan, Dubai, France and Germany, the quality of our people around the world has consistently impressed me.
Their expertise and commitment has been the key to our financial and operational performance this year, and I would 1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing activities like to thank everyone in the Group for their efforts over the last at constant currency.
2 Dividend cover based on earnings per share based on continuing activities.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 11 OUR YEAR AS IT HAPPENED In the last 12 months the Group has performed well against a backdrop of challenging global markets, proving the value of our diversied business, selective approach to investment and focus on cost control.
Q1: MARKETS Q2: SEVERAL Q3: TEMP RESILIENT, PERM Q4: RETURN TO YEAR-ONOVERALL STABLE MARKETS FRAGILE MORE CHALLENGING YEAR GROWTH IN THE UK Markets were overall stable Several markets were fragile The start to the second half in Overall, markets were stable but multi-speed.
Germany through the quarter and we our key temp and contractor but mixed.
The UK returned delivered excellent growth to experienced a material step-down markets was encouraging and to year-on-year fee growth achieve record fees, Australia in activity in the resource and mining although many perm markets for the first time in three years.
& New Zealand were broadly sector in Australia.
Elsewhere, net were challenging, they were Germany continued to deliver sequentially stable although fees continued to grow in our broadly stable.
We saw a stand-out mining markets started to German business and although Germany continued to grow, performance in France, where weaken, while UK market conditions in the UK market the rates of growth slowed the market remained very 1 conditions were very difficult.
remained tough, they were broadly through the quarter.
In the UK, difficult but we grew by 10%, Several markets during the stable, with growth in the public net fees were at year-on-year whilst seven countries saw net 1 period were impacted by sector driven by permanent job but returned to modest fee declines.
After a period of further economic uncertainty, churn.
Critically, despite further net sequential growth.
Overall sequential stability, activity in notably those in Southern fee declines, we delivered a return market conditions in Australia our Australian mining business Europe.
to profitability in the UK business remained challenging but stepped down at the end of the for the first half of the year.
The sequentially stable through the quarter.
In June, we appointed Group completed the renancing quarter.
We commented that Torsten Kreindl to the Board as of its debt facilities in October we expected full year operating a non-executive director.
We with a new five-year, unsecured profit to be at the top of the again upgraded our full year 300 million revolving credit range of market estimates.
operating profit guidance to facility to October 2017. be at the top of the range of market estimates.
GOVERNANCE AND BOARD DIVIDEND One of my main areas of focus is ensuring that the Group operates to Reecting our financial performance this year, the Board has the highest standards in respect of governance as well as meeting our proposed a final dividend of 1.67 pence per share, unchanged from corporate and social responsibility obligations to all stakeholders.
This results in a full year dividend of 2.50 pence per share, again unchanged from last year, and representing a dividend cover 2 On the opposite page, you will nd a table of the contents covering ratio of 2.1x.
all of the details in these areas, but there are two specic points I wish to highlight.
The Board fully recognises the importance to all shareholders of paying a sustainable and progressive dividend.
We believe that Firstly, in last years Annual Report I made it clear how important dividends should be covered by earnings in the range of 2.0x 2 it is that the make-up of the Board not only reects the shape of 3.0x and we remain committed to reviewing the dividend payout 2 our business today, but also evolves to reect what is a truly global, when cover sustainably reaches 2.5x.
During the year, we further strengthened the Board with the appointment of Torsten Kreindl.
Torstens SUMMARY background which you can nd in detail on page 51 makes him 2013 has been an encouraging year for the Group.
We have delivered ideally placed to advise on issues to do with Europe, a region which a resilient financial performance in the context of a generally fragile is so important to our Group and where he is based.
has in-depth experience of new and emerging digital media and technologies which have become central to the future development Operationally, we have continued to make significant progress, of our industry.
Ensuring that the make-up of the Board is reective taking action to drive cost savings and efficiency improvements of the issues facing the Group today and in the future remains a across the business and building on our position as industry leaders priority of mine, and will remain so throughout my Chairmanship.
in the way we think about and utilise new and evolving technologies.
In an industry which is as cyclical and Longer term, the structural growth opportunities available to inextricably linked to the macroeconomic cycle as ours, it is essential the Group are clear, and the Board remains focused on ensuring that our senior team are rewarded appropriately throughout the that the Group is positioned to take full advantage of them.
Their rewards must reect not only their ability to position the Group for long-term growth, whilst delivering financial returns in the ALAN THOMSON short term, but also appropriately ensure that management are fully Chairman aligned to the interests of shareholders.
Ensuring we achieve this balance in the current fast-changing economic environment is something that the Board takes very seriously.
With this in mind we have outlined in the Remuneration Report our rationale and methodology regarding this years remuneration packages.
12 HAYS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 STRA TEGY IN THIS SECTION 14 Hays Business Model 16 Business Model in Action 18 Chief Executives Strategic Review Oil & Gas is a key area of focus as we further develop our Canadian business, leveraging existing global relationships as well as our recently opened office in Houston, USA.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 13 HAYS IN CANADA CANADA Our recent success in Canada is an example of FUTURE MATERIAL PROFIT DRIVER how we organically grow our business, leveraging our cross-border relationships and global network THE OPPORTUNITY: Canada is a market which has a long-established and well and using existing Hays management talent from understood specialist recruitment industry.
This has allowed around the world, alongside strong local teams.
us to organically grow our business there using both our Having entered the country in FY 2002 with our relationships with multinational businesses with operations in the country and with domestic clients.
Although showing Accounting & Finance and Construction & significant recent growth, our scale in Canada today is Property specialisms, we have embedded other relatively small and we therefore see a major opportunity to technical specialisms including Resources & Mining develop further by embedding more specialisms, investing aggressively for growth where appropriate and continuing and, most recently, IT Contracting.
Our focus the build-out of our Contractor business.
remains on further diversifying our offering in Canada, building new specialisms and contract NET FEES m HEADCOUNT SIGNIFICANT GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES types.
We continue to draw on our international database of clients and candidates, allied to the 136 15.1 25% growing list of local businesses we serve, to drive 84% 10.2 87 the next phase of growth for Hays in Canada.
75% HAYS IN ACTION Suncor is Canadas largest Oil & Gas company with almost 16% 13,000 employees.
They approached Hays to work with them 1 2009 2013 Canadian market Hays Canada 2009 2013 to identify candidates for several senior positions in the net fees FY13 Perm Temp Netherlands and Norway, where they also have significant operations.
Having built our relationship with Suncor in Calgary over several years, we developed a deep understanding of the HAYS OFFICES: NORTH AMERICA companys requirements.
Combining this understanding with our global footprint and database we were able to identify the CANADA best candidates for Suncor, wherever they were in the world.
CALGARY We continue to focus on excelling in delivering cross-border MISSISSAUGA solutions for our large multinational clients.
OTTAWA 5 TORONTO VANCOUVER USA NEW YORK HOUSTON To nd out more visit hays.
