REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Chairmans statement This is my first opportunity to write formally to shareholders and I am fortunate to be able to do so at a time when the results of the Group are being seen in a better light having delivered a solid sales performance and very strong cash generation.
This owes much to an improved sales and In these tough economic conditions, the trading performance at Argos over the last contribution made by our colleagues throughout year and to expectations of the transformation the business is vital.
Customer contact, whether plan for the business outlined to the city in through the internet or face-to-face, is critical October 2012.
Shareholders will recall that in making Argos and Homebase good places to this is a five-year plan underpinned by a shop.
Our customer-facing colleagues, and those three-year investment programme.
It is who work just as diligently elsewhere, can and ambitious but achievable.
Meanwhile, we do make a real difference to current and future continue also to focus on efforts to improve performance.
For that I thank them on behalf of performance at Homebase and roll out its the Board and the shareholders.
Colleagues also make a great contribution John Coombe Benchmark profit before tax for the Group is to the communities in which they work, Chairman 91m, 10% down on the previous year, reflecting through local and national voluntary activity.
a positive like-for-like sales performance at Argos Shareholders will be interested to know that, offset somewhat by a weather-impacted result having raised 4.7m for Teenage Cancer Trust from Homebase.
We have managed costs and in the last three years, energy is shifting to cash very effectively and close the year with the raise money for Alzheimers Society, which ability to fund the Argos transformation plan and was chosen by colleagues to be our next the development of Homebase from our own charity partner, and I am sure it will be a resources.
While these plans are being delivered, successful partnership.
we continue to introduce improvements to our In closing, as well as thanking my fellow multi-channel offering and to refine our Financial Board members for their support, I wish to Services operation, which supports both pay tribute to my predecessor as Chairman, businesses.
The decision to end our participation Oliver Stocken.
Oliver saw the Group through in establishing a business in China and the its separation from GUS in 2006 and set in closure of the Argos TV shopping channel are motion the events which have led to the further evidence of our determination to focus establishment of the Argos transformation plan.
on the job in hand, to deliver sustainable growth His contribution has been significant.
I will also in the businesses and hence value for take this opportunity to welcome Jacqueline fide shareholders.
Terry explains the results in more Rojas to the Board.
Jacqueline brings a wealth detail in his statement on the next page.
of expertise in the software technology sector I am therefore happy to confirm that we are and is a valuable addition to the mix of talent we recommending a final dividend of 2.0p, taking have on the Board.
My comments on other the dividend for the year to 3.0p, reflecting our governance matters are set out in the corporate recognition of the need for an appropriate governance report on page 34. return for shareholders, balanced by the need My fellow directors and I are committed to for investment funding in the Group to develop working with all our colleagues for a successful its businesses.
future and I look forward to reporting on that in The last few years have not been easy for the next few years.
many retailers and our focus on liquidity has been an important factor in building the financial John Coombe strength of the Group.
The economic outlook Chairman remains uncertain but Home Retail Group is in a sound financial position and is well-placed to take advantage of any economic upturn when it comes, enhancing the benefits from the business improvements we are making.
6 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013
