Chairmans statement STRATEGY AND PROGRESS in line with the principles of responsible behaviour on The Group continued to Howdens is the UKs leading trade which Howdens is founded.
outperform in 2013, achieving supplier of kitchens and joinery, a further increase in gross serving nearly 290,000 credit DIVIDEND margin in a competitive market account customers from a network of and generating significantly 559 local depots across the country.
As we explained last year, the Board higher levels of profit and cash intends to target a capital structure This position has been achieved that is both prudent and recognises thanks to the consistent, disciplined the benefits of financial leverage implementation of the Howdens and, after considering all other uses model since the business started of capital, to return surplus capital trading in 1995.
The Group to shareholders, by way of either continued to outperform in 2013, ordinary dividends or alternative achieving a further increase in gross forms of return of capital.
Our stated margin in a competitive market and intention is an earnings per share generating significantly higher levels based dividend cover of between of profit and cash.
2.5 and 3.0 times, with one-third of the previous years dividend being The purpose of our business is paid as an interim dividend for the simply expressed in our mission following year.
The Board believes statement: To provide from local it is appropriate for the Group to stock nationwide the small builders be able to operate throughout routine, integrated kitchen and the working capital cycle without joinery requirements, assuring incurring bank debt.
no-call-back quality and best local price.
The successful fulfilment of Given the Groups strong cash this mission is extremely demanding, generation in 2013, the Board requiring excellent execution every is proposing a final dividend in day in all parts of the business, respect of the year of 4.5p per and a holistic understanding of the share, giving a total dividend of model by management and staff at 5.5p per share for 2013 2012: all levels.
The Board will continue to in detail in the Chief Executives monitor the Groups cash balances, statement on pages 10 to 17. having regard to future investment opportunities, anticipated peak Our overarching strategic objective working capital requirements and is to ensure the sustainability of the the trading outlook.
Naturally this will require continuing focus BOARD COMPOSITION on the highly profitable, customerWe seek to ensure that we have centred model that has served a balanced and effective Board Howdens so well.
As the business with the appropriate mix of grows and the market evolves, it background and skills to allow will also mean further management constructive debate and and organisational development informed decision-making.
and continuing good governance, 08 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 In September 2013 we were work has progressed well and has 2014, in which we were ranked th delighted to welcome Richard now been extended to include a 12 in the top 25 big companies Pennycook to the Board as a nonnumber of senior managers.
I am also pleased that our executive Director.
Richard was aim is to develop our existing talent, outstanding health & safety record recently appointed Group Finance to create opportunities for senior in UK manufacturing continues, with Director of The Co-operative Group, executives, to take on broader roles all three of our manufacturing and following nearly eight years as Group and to ensure we have the right distribution sites again achieving Finance Director of the national people in place to continue to deliver distinction in the British Safety supermarket group Morrisons.
Councils prestigious international has a distinguished track record in award scheme.
a number of leading UK companies OUR WIDER RESPONSIBILITIES A detailed report on our progress and will bring valuable experience Howdens is a local business, in with regard to our corporate to Howdens.
As Chair of the Audit which local autonomy prevails responsibilities can be found on Committee, Richard succeeds and individual effort is valued and pages 25 to 32.
Angus Cockburn, who made a rewarded.
At the same time the significant contribution to the company has now grown to a OUR PEOPLE Board over a number of years, size that confers considerable for which we are very grateful.
We employ over 6,600 people responsibilities with regard to working in many locations and in our customers, our product, our BOARD EVALUATION varied environments which include environment, our people and the our trade depots, factory production Our policy continues to be to communities in which we operate.
lines, distribution warehouses, conduct a thorough review of Board We are conscious of the need offices, design studios, testing process, practice and culture on an to ensure that we exercise these laboratories and, in the case of sales annual basis, with the input of an responsibilities with thought reps and drivers, their vehicles.
external facilitator every three years.
Yet again our outperformance At the end of 2012 we appointed Our heritage and culture means in 2013 has reflected the skill, Independent Audit Limited to we place a high value on the whole commitment and hard work of conduct an external review.
The range of skills practised by local management and staff throughout process concluded that the Board tradespeople.
We are keen to the business.
On your behalf and operates in an effective manner encourage the use of these skills that of the Board, I would like to and that no major modifications are in the workplace and interest in thank them all.
Looking forward, we will them in the wider community, continue to work together to support and we actively promote training, Will Samuel the strategic development of education, accreditation from Chairman Howdens rapidly growing business.
professional bodies and the use of apprenticeships in the workplace.
26 February 2014 MANAGEMENT AND We are committed to providing ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT our customers with exceptional, Last year I reported that we were individual service and it follows that reviewing the roles of the Executive we have an ongoing commitment to Committee in order to understand making Howdens a good place to where there may be opportunities work.
I am pleased to report that our to improve the organisation to efforts were rewarded in the Sunday support our growth trajectory.
This Times Best Companies Awards 09
