Strategic Report Chairmans Statement During 2013, Hunting continued its strategy The Groups performance shows how implemented over the past few years of our strategy continues to be successfully internationalising its product lines throughout our global operating hubs, while implemented with the future direction of at the same time investing in new facilities to meet customer and product demand.
investment and growth clearly defined.
Within our main reporting segments, Well Construction operations produced weaker than expected results due to a challenging Canadian market and as some customers within the Advanced Manufacturing Group reduced inventory levels during the year.
Our Well Completion activities had a solid year with Hunting Titan performing strongly with its perforating system product lines generating strong sales combined with an excellent performance from the Asia Pacific Richard Hunting C. B. E. region.
The third of our segments, Well Chairman Intervention, has delivered year-on-year trading gains with Hunting Subsea improving its results and other operations expanding especially in the Middle East.
In the year, within our main operating market of the United States, onshore developments have focused on oil shale resources, while shale gas drilling remains subdued due to the pricing environment in country.
Offshore, the Gulf of Mexico has continued to accelerate, leading to an overall satisfactory performance from the region.
In Canada and Europe the operating environment has been more challenging due to lower activity levels, while our Asia Pacific business has been growing rapidly due to higher levels of drilling activity and continued investment by the Group to increase its regional market share.
04 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report This overall operating environment has led We are also pleased to highlight a new Dividend per share cents to underlying profits remaining broadly format for our Annual Report and Accounts unchanged, with underlying profit before which has been implemented following 29.5 tax from continuing operations in 2013 changes to legislation.
Reported describes our business and operating model, profit before tax from continuing operations our business strategy and our progress on 23.9 was $135.0m 2012 $127.4m.
these objectives and how this relates to our current performance, position and Capital investment on new and replacement investment plans for the future.
The new facilities was broadly maintained at $95.0m remuneration reporting regulations have 2012 $97.4m, reflecting our continued also led to a revised format, with clear 2011 2012 2013 confidence in future growth.
Large capital sections on policy and implementation to investment programmes underway include: increase transparency.
a new threading and testing facility in Houston: a final phase of expansion in Our business success continues to be Houma, Louisiana: and a new South African defined by our people and it is the hard facility, where the Group sees high growth work of all our employees that gives us potential.
confidence that Hunting will continue to grow in the future.
I am grateful to all our Underlying diluted earnings per share from staff for their dedication and hard work.
continuing operations were 93.5 cents 2012 90.8 cents, an increase of 3% on the previous year.
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were 68.3 cents 2012 63.1 cents.
We are recommending a final dividend for Richard Hunting C. B. E. 2013 of 21.8 cents per share, payable on Chairman 27May 2014 to shareholders on the register 6 March 2014 on 2 May 2014, giving a total of 29.5 cents for the year, a 4% increase.
Though declared in US dollars, dividends will continue to be paid in Sterling.
Throughout the year, the Board has continued to enhance governance across the organisation, with particular attention being given to Board and senior management succession planning within key areas and businesses of the Group.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 05
