Chairmans statement Overall performance this year has shown continued We have also undertaken important steps to ensure that momentum building in our business.
The relationships we the organisation and infrastructure are appropriate for have developed with key customers have produced very the growth and opportunities we plan.
In November we strong growth in unit shipments.
We have achieved almost completed the fi first of three phases of the redevelopment 50% growth year on year.
Although licensing revenue of our Head Offi ce campus when we moved into the was behind our plan we are as convinced as ever of the fi first building.
Construction of the second phase is now importance and relevance of our expanding IP portfolio to underway with the fi final phase due to commence in 2014. meet the needs of our customers.
It is enabling them to The campus is expected to be complete in 2015.
This create the products of the future today.
development is key to creating the right environment for our staff to collaborate and create world class products.
The Technology business continues to thrive and develop apace.
The IP portfolio we offer has been signifi cantly I mentioned the board composition last year and we enhanced both through organic investment in our teams have taken steps to further strengthen the board and and targeted acquisition activity.
corporate governance through the appointment of two new non-executive directors.
We continually look critically It was extremely signifi cant that in February we completed at the way in which we manage and control the business, the acquisition of MIPS Technologies, Inc. MIPS.
This and respond to the changing requirements of the fundamentally important and very strategic acquisition corporate world.
will provide signifi cant benefi ts for the Group in the years to come.
As many of you will be aware the IP licensing I must again mention and give huge credit for the success business requires long term vision with investment often of the Group and its exciting progress to our staff that now made many years before the revenue is generated.
Their creativity, desire year we have invested signifi cantly in a number of vital for success, and commitment to quality aligned with areas with our eyes fi rmly focussed on the future and exceptional efforts continue to be the foundation of our developing the capabilities of the company to ensure that achievements.
we have the products to capitalize on emerging market Thank you also for your keen interest and continued opportunities.
We strongly believe these will be powerful loyal support.
additional drivers of our revenue in the future.
Pure has continued to enhance its presence in international markets and continued its role of pathfi nding new technology opportunities for the Group.
The recent launch of the Jongo range of wireless speakers will provide a signifi cant additional revenue stream for Pure as well as creating technology that is in demand from our Geoff Shingles customers in the Technology business.
