OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Chairmans Statement Im pleased to introduce this report which provides an overview of our performance and the actions were taking to strengthen the sustainability of our business.
Iain Napier Chairman In 2013 we created further value for shareholders in what was a In addition, having served for nine years since his appointment dif cult operating environment for many fast moving consumer to the Board of Altadis, Berge Setrakian will step down from the goods companies.
The AGM will mark the ninth year of Susan Murrays service and she will step down from the Board We achieved this through the consistent application of our at the end of September 2014. strategy and also made signi cant progress in transitioning the business to strengthen our future growth potential.
On 1 October we were delighted to welcome Oliver Tant to the Board in advance of his appointment as Finance Director on 1 Growing Returns for Shareholders 5 November.
Oliver joined us from KPMG where he held a We grew total adjusted operating pro ts by 1 per cent and number of senior positions during a highly successful career.
delivered 6 per cent adjusted earnings per share growth to He has extensive corporate finance and financial management 210.7 pence.
Reported earnings per share were 96.2 pence.
expertise and is a very strong addition to the business.
2 The Board is recommending a final dividend of 81.2 pence, Oliver succeeds Bob Dyrbus who will retire at the end of 2013 bringing the total dividend this year to 116.4 pence, up by after an illustrious 25-year career with the Company.
Id like to 10 per cent and increasing our dividend payout ratio to thank Bob for his tremendous contribution and wish him all the 55.2 per cent of adjusted earnings per share.
Our intention is very best for the future.
to grow dividends ahead of adjusted earnings and by at least 10 per cent per year over the medium term.
Sustainable Value Creation Over the last year weve created further value for shareholders A Responsible Business in challenging conditions and Id like to thank our people across We run our business responsibly and take pride in the positive the globe for all their hard work.
Id also like to thank my Board contributions we make in many countries across our international colleagues for their friendship and support during my 13 years footprint, providing employment for 35,000 people, respecting with Imperial Tobacco.
the natural resources we use and contributing around 20 billion every year to governments in taxes.
Our corporate responsibility Its been a privilege to serve as Chairman for seven of those priorities are clearly set out in our responsibility framework and an years and Im con dent that the Groups continued focus on the update on the progress were making in key areas can be found transition of the business and the drive for quality sales growth will on pages 28 to 34 of this report.
reward shareholders with sustainable returns for many more years to come.
Governance and Board Strong governance is integral to the long-term success of Imperial Tobacco and the Board is committed to ensuring that the business continues to be governed and managed with openness, honesty and transparency.
Our Governance Report on page 42 sets out the approach we take and highlights the key focus areas of the Board in 2013.
Iain Napier In January Mark Williamson, Senior Independent Non-Executive Chairman Director, was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Board and will succeed me as Chairman following our AGM in January 2014.
Its been a pleasure working alongside Mark since he joined the Board in 2007 and I wish him every success in the future.
1 Throughout the annual report percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
2 This will be paid on 17 February 2014 to those shareholders on the register on 17 January 2014.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 3
