CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Group delivered record results in 2013 2013 has been another strong year for KEN HANNA, CHAIRMAN Inchcape, marking a record profit and a return to peak operating margin performance.
The strength of our premium operations, our focus on Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets, our dedication to our Customer 1st strategy and the passion of our colleagues have enabled Inchcape to achieve these record results.
We acquired Trivett, Australias leading luxury and premium automotive group, on 1 March 2013 for an expected final consideration of 76m.
The acquisition was an important step in the development of our operations in Australasia, positioning us with greater scale with premium and luxury brands represented in high quality retail centres in Sydney and Melbourne.
On 2 August 2013 we announced a share buy back programme of 100m within 12 months, of which 50m was completed by 31 December 2013.
The Board of Inchcape recognised the opportunity to return cash to our shareholders and thus ensure capital discipline, recognising the priority to invest organically and retaining the capacity for M&A opportunities.
Inchcape is well positioned to benefit from the exciting growth prospects and attractive consolidation opportunities in the global automotive market given our competitive advantage in customer service and our strong relationships with the worlds leading brands in the premium and luxury segments.
I am very pleased to report that our share price performance and progressive dividend policy have combined to deliver an excellent total shareholder return TSR in 2013 of 47%.
PERFORMANCE Group sales increased by 7.2% to 6.5bn for the full year to 31 December 2013.
The Group benefited from the Trivett acquisition and like for like sales growth was achieved in most of the geographic segments.
The Group also achieved profit growth across the majority of its markets in 2013.
The performance of our Emerging Markets was especially pleasing.
In Chile and Peru, where we are the distributor for BMW, the luxury car market grew by 28% and 22% respectively.
2013 has seen broad based growth across our five value drivers as the recovery in New vehicle volumes since 2010, in a number of our markets, has led to growth in Service and Parts sales.
18 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Profit before tax and exceptional items on 2012 14.5p.
Subject to approval recovery in 2014 of the New vehicle market of 274.6m was 11.2% higher than 2012. at the Companys Annual General in Singapore as well as the expected On a statutory basis, profit before tax Meeting AGM on 16 May 2014, the final recovery of the Greek market in 2014 are was 266.1m, 7.4% above 2012.
Adjusted dividend will be paid on 24 June 2014 important developments for the Group.
earnings per share EPS rose by 11.3% to shareholders of the Company on Our geographic footprint positions us to 43.5p, driving a four year compound the register of members at the close for structural growth in Asia Pacific and annual growth rate of 12.6%.
Emerging Markets, and our leading Cash generated from operations premium partners give us confidence APPROACH TO GOVERNANCE AND during the year was 227.0m which in our ability to take market share and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR represents an 81.5% conversion of maintain pricing power.
We view governance as a continually statutory operating profit.
Furthermore, our operational discipline evolving set of principles and the supports the sustainability of returns and Annual Report gives the Board an CAPITAL EXPENDITURE when coupled with the intrinsically cash opportunity to communicate to our The Group continued to be selective generative nature of our business model, stakeholders how we have incorporated on capital expenditure in 2013, ensuring we are confident in our ability to create these principles in order to underpin that cash was allocated to the right long term value for our shareholders.
the delivery of the Groups strategy.
growth prospects that meet our high The Corporate Governance Report on return requirements.
pages 48 to 56 aims to set out clearly In 2013, we completed new flagship how we have structured the Board, BMW facilities in Chile and Peru.
These how we have reviewed and evaluated class-leading sites in Santiago and ourselves and our processes, and Lima will enable Inchcape to take full what changes we have made to advantage of the significant growth ensure the Board and its committees of recent years in BMW volumes in both remain effective.
In 2013 the CR Board KEN HANNA, markets and critically we are well placed Committee, responsible for the strategic CHAIRMAN to serve the aftersales requirements of direction of the Groups Corporate the fast growing Car Parcs.
In China we Responsibility programme, continued opened a Porsche site in Nanchang and to develop a global approach to making a Mercedes-Benz site in Jiujiang.
In Russia responsible economic, environmental we opened new facilities for Rolls-Royce in and social behaviour fundamental to St. Petersburg and for Jaguar, Land Rover the way we work.
PEOPLE BOARD On behalf of the Board, I wish to express Following nine years service, Will Samuel, my sincere thanks to all our colleagues the Deputy Chairman and Senior across the Group for their outstanding Non-Executive Director, retired from commitment and support in 2013. the Board on 16 May 2013.
We are very grateful for the valuable insights OUTLOOK and dedication delivered by Will to the We are well positioned moving forward.
Following this change Simon We operate with the worlds leading Borrows became Senior Independent premium brands across 26 markets, in Director.
John Langston joined the Board which we have long-standing market on 1 August 2013, and was appointed share strength and where we deploy Chairman of the Audit Committee on our bespoke operational processes 1 September 2013. to deliver excellence throughout the value chain and thus enabling us to DIVIDEND outcompete local operators.
The Board is pleased to recommend The Group has a track record of delivering payment of a final dividend for the year consistent profit growth despite challenging ended 31 December 2013 of 11.7p, trading conditions in some of our key 11.4% on 2012 10.5p.
This gives a total regions, namely South Asia and Europe.
dividend for 2013 of 17.4p, representing The commencement of the anticipated a payout ratio of 40% and a 20% increase www.
