STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that it has been another good year for Informa.
We delivered a solid earnings and cash performance in 2013, ensuring an attractive return for our shareholders.
It was also a year of significant leadership change following the retirement of Peter Rigby as Chief Executive.
In the task of appointing a successor, the Board was keen to identify somebody with an outside perspective that had enough objectivity to manage the change after such a long-standing predecessor, but also with a strong appreciation of the culture of the Group and the markets in which it operates.
The Board was, therefore, delighted to appoint Stephen Carter to the role, who it feels has all the right attributes to be successful.
DEREK MAPP I IN NF FO OR RM MA P A PL LC C 02 A an nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 3 d 31 D 1 fide ec ce em mb be er 2 r 20 01 13 3 PERFORMANCE AND STRATEGY acquisitions of Apps World, FanExpo, transition of the Group.
Our new Nonand a stake in Baiwen, the owner of China Executive Directors add considerable This Strategic Report sets out our strategy Beauty Expo.
The latter is an important expertise across numerous industries and objectives and includes reviews of move for us, significantly increasing our and geographies and we look forward each of our operating businesses.
Our presence in the Chinese exhibition market, to their valuable contribution in the core markets continue to offer good something that has been a key target years to come.
opportunities for us to generate attractive for some time.
Similarly, within Business returns over the long-term.
As the global PEOPLE AND VALUES Intelligence, we acquired EBI, a US economy continues its shift to service and Informa is wholeheartedly a people pharmaceutical information service, which knowledge-based industries, our businesses business and all of the Groups combined with Scrip make us the clear are strategically placed to benefit.
achievements are only possible due to the global source of information, news and hard work, commitment and intellectual Our Academic Publishing division had commentary on the sector.
In Academic another good year in 2013, growing capacity of our employees across the Publishing, we bought a number of small world.
I am consistently impressed by the its revenue and profit healthily, while book and journal businesses such as Eye continuing to invest in new products and quality and commitment of our teams and, on Education, which enrich and broaden on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank technology.
For example, it successfully our content offering.
We also made a launched a new digital database, the South them all for their continued dedication in substantial organic investment into Cogent driving Informa forward.
Asian Culture and History Archive, a unique OA, a new open access publishing brand online treasure trove encompassing over backed by Taylor & Francis, ensuring we Embedded within our unique internal five million pages of valuable research are well positioned as this market grows.
culture is a strong sense of human values and teaching materials on South Asia.
In and responsibility to the wider community.
LEADERSHIP TRANSITION September, it launched Cogent OA, an This lies at the heart of a well-developed innovative new open access publishing A number of changes to the senior corporate responsibility strategy, which management team took place in 2013. brand, which will launch a range of open is structured around People, Community access journal titles in 2014.
After more than 25 years as Chief and the Environment.
We also make a firm Executive, Peter Rigby announced his Our Global Events division also had an commitment to the highest standards of intention to retire at the end of the year.
As a encouraging year, notably in exhibitions Adam Walker also announced his intention and large scale conferences, which grew trusted knowledge provider, this is critical to take up the role of Finance Director at and lies at the heart of everything we do.
Our Middle East events business GKN plc at the start of 2014.
Both made was particularly buoyant, with large shows an enormous contribution to Informa in We also have a strong belief in creating like Arab Health, Middle East Electricity their time at the Group and we wish them an inclusive and flexible workplace, and Cityscape all performing very well.
Peter, in particular, has ensuring every employee has the best given a significant portion of his working Our Business Intelligence operations opportunity to flourish, create value life to the Group and his boundless energy, and feel valued.
We have a strong track continued to reflect the tough market enthusiasm and passionate management backdrop of some of their key end markets, record of equal opportunity, with the style will be sorely missed.
latest Group statistics showing that 57% notably the financial and pharmaceutical sectors.
Our teams are working hard to of total employees and 36% of senior We were delighted to announce Stephen managers are female.
Following the reverse the recent trends, improving the Carter as Peters successor and he took up product offering and targeting new sales recent appointments, a third of our Nonthe role at the start of 2014.
The Board was Executive Directors will be female.
Needless to say, returning the very conscious that taking over a business Business Intelligence division back to that has been led by the same management Our commitment to our people and strong growth will be a key focus for the new for 25 years would be a significant belief in diversity in the workplace has led management team.
challenge, and the successor would need to several industry awards, notably fifth to have both a good feel for its people, place in the 2013 CRF Institute Survey of Equally important, our Global Support culture and operating model, but also the division continued to drive value Britains Top Employers.
broader experience and independence across the Group through the various OUTLOOK to manage the transition effectively.
We activities it provides to our businesses felt Stephen was the perfect fit, bringing Overall, it has been a good year for around the globe, including finance and a wealth of international experience and Informa and I would like to thank all our tax, acquisition integration, as well as strategic understanding of the media, stakeholders for their contribution.
Our management and exploitation of our telecommunications and technology financial success in 2013 enabled us to Group-wide intellectual property.
industries, but also good inside knowledge of grow our dividend once more.
In July, we took the decision to sell our Informa and its markets.
We look forward to As I write this retrospective report, I am Corporate Training business to Providence working closely with Stephen and his senior also pleased to see good progress with our Equity Partners for USD 150m, with an management team in successfully managing plan to relocate the Group headquarters effective date of 30 September 2013.
This the transition and in developing the future back to the UK during 2014. business had very different dynamics strategy and direction of the Group.
to the rest of our portfolio and we felt it Looking forward, a new management We recently strengthened the Board would be better managed by someone team and a relocation will bring a different further through the appointment of three who had a long-term commitment to perspective, fresh ideas and energy, all of new Non-Executive Directors: Gareth invest and build scale in the sector.
which should make for an exciting future.
I Bullock, Geoffrey Cooper and Helen am looking forward to working closely with We believe our strategic objectives are Owers.
These appointments serve to fill them to formulate a strategy for the next best met by focusing on areas where the void left by Stephens appointment as stage of growth.
I am confident Informas we have strong brands and established Group Chief Executive and to replace Dr. best years lie ahead of it.
This was reflected in Pamela Kirby, who stands down in May, as the deployment of capital through the well as to further broaden the knowledge year, which included further commitment and experience across the Board and Derek Mapp to our exhibition portfolio through the leave us well placed to manage the future Chairman Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 03
