Executive Chairmans review Dear Shareholder, Inmarsat-4 L-band fleet, but at the end of the year, we launched the first of our new Inmarsat-5 Ka-band satellites, which we call Looking back over 2013, it has certainly been a challenging year Global Xpress GX.
We believe that these investments, along with for us, but one in which much was accomplished.
the commercial development programmes associated with them, establish the platform to allow us to grow and retain our leadership This letter will highlight: in the global mobile satellite sector.
A record year in our history in terms of the size of capital Of course, in parallel with these developments, we had targeted the business to achieve growth as we step into the launch of investment in new satellites and services this new era for the Company.
We are pleased to report that Continued growth in our core business exceeding targets over the last two years we exceeded these targets of 0-2% set in 2012, while recognising that the disappointment in growth in our core satellite services business.
In fact we achieved our US Government retail business, due mainly to budget 3.3% growth in 2013.
This exceeded our targets for the second cuts and the withdrawal from Afghanistan, have negatively consecutive year.
However, our lower margin retail business, affected revenue growth overall in the year Inmarsat Solutions, suffered from the continued Afghanistan Successful launch of two new satellites troop withdrawal and from the US Government budget cuts.
Achievement of operating profitability EBITDA targets Inmarsat management and staff reacted quickly as these shortfalls through tight cost control while simultaneously ramping became apparent and therefore we were able to meet our targets up new programmes for profitability for the year.
This was also achieved while costs were Eighth straight year of dividend growth ramping up on the new GX programme.
So, in balance for the year, Second year of three year management succession plan a solid achievement by the business.
successfully completed Opening of the new Satellite Access Station in Beijing, While our debt levels increased during the year due to our capital creating new potential in China investments, we have remained within our targeted leverage levels.
Recognition of our humanitarian efforts with the Special Our capital expenditure programmes are on track, as are our cash Recognition Award for Corporate Social Responsibility at flow expectations and therefore we continue to support our goal of the Global Carrier Awards providing sustainable dividend increases to our shareholders.
We intend to recommend a final dividend of 28.82 cents US$, which Our results for 2013 were achieved with the backdrop of the represents a 5% increase over 2012.
This is the eighth consecutive biggest capital investment year by far in Inmarsats 34 year history.
year of dividend increases: every year since our IPO in 2005.
Not only did we launch an additional satellite to enhance our In 2012 the Board of Directors established a succession transition plan over three years, to secure a smooth transition as we separated the Chief Executive and Chairman functions, in the midst of the biggest capital investment programme in our history.
In this plan, I stepped into the role of Executive Chairman and Rupert Pearce became Chief Executive.
2013 represents the second year of this transition and we can report to shareholders Andrew Sukawaty Executive Chairman that it has gone well.
Rupert has changed the fundamental structure of the organisation during this period, by appointing market-focused business units and changed the way the Company addresses product development and innovation.
All of this was done while keeping the capital investment programme on schedule and budget, and returning the Company to growth in our core business.
This transition will be completed at the end of 2014, which is also when the new scheduled satellite fleet will be in place.
The Board is pleased with the way Rupert has assumed the Chief Executive responsibilities.
The vision he set in 2012 is bringing the business benefits now and sets us up well for a continued successful future.
This carefully structured management succession has proven itself to work well in one of the highest activity periods in our history.
Rick Medlock left us as our Chief Financial Officer at the beginning of January 2014.
Rick was a major contributor to Inmarsats success as a business over his nearly 10 years with the Company.
We would like to thank him and wish him well in the future.
We look forward to welcoming Tony Bates who will join us as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 2 June 2014.
During this period of heightened capital investment programmes, we also set our sights on simultaneously growing and remaining financially strong.
We believe these programmes will allow us to provide compelling market leading services for our partners and customers.
In fact, this year the first pieces of this new platform for growth began to fall into place.
Two new satellites were launched in 2013.
The first launch in July was an important addition to our Inmarsat-4 global fleet of satellites.
The second launch in INMARSAT PLC 02 Annual Report & Accounts 2013
