Chairmans statement 2013 was another strong year for IHG.
Despite what continued to be challenging macroeconomic conditions around the world, we delivered on our strategy and reported good growth in our operating profit and earnings per share.
We are delighted to have In last years Annual Report, I shared my total funds returned to shareholders since perspective and initial impressions of our 2003 demerger, excluding ordinary delivered another year IHG.
I have dividends, will amount to $8.0 billion.
of strong performance continued to be deeply impressed by the I am also pleased to announce that the Board skills, dedication and energy of our people, in 2013, my first year is recommending a 9 per cent increase to the our award-winning brand portfolio and final dividend for 2013 resulting in a full-year asChairman of IHG.
our relentless focus on delivering our dividend of 70 cents 43.2 pence per share, strategy.
On behalf of the Board, I would up 9 per centon 2012. therefore like to extend my sincere thanks to our 350,000 colleagues around the We continue to honour our commitment world who have strived to put our guests tomaintaining an efficient balance sheet at the heart of everything they do with whilst retaining an investment grade credit 9%: 70.0 pride anddedication.
This approach has Total full-year dividend delivered significant value for investors.
Responsible Business sterling equivalent of 43.2p Over the three-year period to 31 December Being a responsible business is an integral 2013, IHGs annualised total shareholder part of delivering on our strategy.
It is not return TSR was 22 per cent, compared only reflected in our culture, but also in with 9 per cent for the FTSE 100 as a whole.
3.8% ourapproach to governance and doing Board Revenue per available room theright thing.
Our commitment to serve 686,873 rooms 4,697 hotels the local communities in which we I have been impressed by the strength operating in the IHG System operateisstronger than ever and we and diversity of the IHG Board.
We have a recently launched stretching Corporate very strong balance of skills, knowledge, Responsibility CR targets to reflect this.
experience and diversity among our You can find more information on our CR Directors.
Critical to the success of the 4% programmes and targets on page 32. business is ensuring we maintain this Fee revenue breadth and balance of skills to suit both A robust and effective system of internal Driven by 3.8% of RevPAR growth the existing shape of the business and to controls and risk management processes and 1.6% net IHG System size growth support our future growth.
We have, for is an essential part of IHGs governance example, recognised that consumer facing structure and a key part of being a technology will continue to be an important responsible business.
More detail on our part of our business and that we need to approach to risk management can be found strengthen ourselves accordingly.
We have on pages 34 to 37. therefore taken the decision to look to Shareholder returns and further enhance the Board by appointing an financialposition additional Non-Executive Director with strong experience in this area.
Equally IHG has an excellent track record of important, is ensuring the Board has delivering sustainable and attractive absolutely the right processes in place to returns for shareholders.
Last year we ensure it is operating as efficiently and announced a $350 million special dividend, effectively as possible, and is helping to set which was paid alongside the ordinary the agenda for the business to succeed both interim dividend on 4 October 2013.
Wealso in the short and long term.
This will continue bought back $283 million of shares in the to be a priority in 2014 and beyond.
year, in addition to the $107 million bought back in 2012, leaving $110 million of our Reflecting these commitments, this year, existing $500 million share buyback we announced a number changes to Total IHG System rooms revenue divided by the number of room nights available.
Group revenue excluding owned and leased hotels, managed leases and significant liquidated damages.
Growth stated at constant currency.
4 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION InterContinental Presidente Cozumel Resort Spa, Mexico Holiday Inn Express Bogota, Colombia Hotel Indigo Tel Aviv Diamond District, Israel We welcomed two new independent Governance we have worked hard to present both the Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
policy and the reward paid to our Board in High standards of corporate governance JillMcDonald joined IHG on 1 June 2013 an open and accessible way, as well as are fundamental to the way IHG operates.
and Ian Dyson joined on 1 September complying with the regulatory requirements.
The Board is committed to ensuring that 2013.
Jill has a wealth of experience in we not only operate effectively, but that Outlook franchising and marketing and Ian has a each Director is committed to the role and range of experience in senior executive We remain confident in the long-term continues to make a valuable contribution and finance roles.
Both Jill and Ian are growth prospects of the hotel industry.
members of the Audit and Nomination This reflects our belief that we will Committees and Ian is also a member This year we commissioned a formal continue to see an increase in demand of the Remuneration Committee.
evaluation of the Board from an independent for hotels over the next few decades.
The findings from the evaluation This belief is supported by the positive David Kappler will be stepping down from are outlined on page 65. socio-economic, demographic and the Board and his roles as Chairman of the technological changes that we see Audit Committee and Senior Independent Our Annual Report this year includes, across the globe which will ultimately Non-Executive Director in 2014.
Davidjoined forthe first time, our US Annual Report mean record numbers of people join IHGs Board in June 2004 andhas been onForm 20-F reporting requirements, the travel market each year.
a great asset to the business and an aswell as taking into consideration the invaluable support to me in my first year newrequirements of the UK Corporate As a result, we start 2014 with confidence as Chairman.
Ian Dyson will take over as Governance Code and changes to UK that the business will continue to deliver Chairman of the Audit Committee with legislation, providing all reporting high-quality growth and generate long-term effect from 1 April 2014.
David will retire information in a single report.
Our significant from the Board on 31 May 2014 and Dale scale, broad geographical exposure as well Remuneration Morrison, who has been an independent as our strong understanding of the industry Non-Executive Director of IHG since June Recruiting and retaining an outstanding and how it is evolving, particularly in terms 2011, will become the Senior Independent executive leadership team is critical to of consumer trends and technological Non-Executive Director, ensuring a smooth ensuring that IHG succeeds over both innovation, means we are well-positioned transition of Davids duties.
Our Directors for future growth.
This will allow us to Remuneration Policy is designed to help continue to deliver attractive shareholder We said goodbye to Tom Singer, who stepped achieve this objective.
The policy requires returns whilst further enhancing our guest down from his position as Chief Financial a significant proportion of remuneration propositions to create brands which are Officer and the Board on 1 January 2014. to be linked to the delivery of both strong truly preferred.
Tom played a key role in the success of the financial and operational results and Group since he joined IHGs Board and market-beating performance.
Details of Executive Committee in September 2011. the policy are setout in the Directors We thank him for his contribution and wish Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 97. him the best for the future.
We believe that our policy, which is largely I am pleased to welcome Paul unchanged from last year, is aligned with Edgecliffe-Johnson to the Board.
Paul was best practice and remains fit for purpose.
appointed Chief Financial Officer on We have historically tried to make the Patrick Cescau 1 January 2014, becoming a member Directors Remuneration Report as Chairman of IHGs Board andExecutive Committee transparent and easy to read as possible, at that time.
Pauljoined IHG in August and were pleased to receive the PwC 2004 and has worked in a number of senior Building Public Trust Award for Executive roles across the Group, most recently as Remuneration Reporting in the FTSE 100 Chief FinancialOfficer of IHGs Europe and for our 2012 Directors Remuneration Asia, Middle East and Africa regions.
In preparation for the first binding shareholder vote on our Directors Remuneration Policy in the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report, Overview 5
