Chairmans Statement A transformational year for Invensys Dear Shareholder Our decision to sell Invensys Rail to Siemens The past year has undoubtedly been for 1,742 million followed a detailed strategic transformational for Invensys.
review that concluded that a disposal would be the best way of maximising value for shareholders.
As a result, we have been able to deal with our legacy UK pension issues in away that has been acceptable to our shareholders, the Trustee and the Pension Regulator.
We will also be returning 625 million of cash to shareholders and we will still retain substantial funds to invest in our more focused technology businesses both organically and through acquisitions.
Going forward, one of the major priorities of your Board will be to ensure that the investment ofthese funds continues to build upon the signi cant increase in shareholder value that has alreadytaken place.
The past year was transformational for Invensys.
Going forward, one of the major priorities of your Board will be to ensure that the investment of funds from the Invensys Rail disposal continues to build upon the signi cant increase in shareholder value that has already taken place.
Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman Underlying EPS p 8.5p Underlying EPS were 8.5p 2012:5.3p, up 60% Dividend p 4.6p Recommended final dividend of 2.85p per share 2012: 2.75p : totaldividends of 4.6p per share 2012: 4.4p, up 5% 06 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview The Board Dividend and dividend policy Outlook There were no changes to the membership The Board has recommended a final dividend Looking ahead, we do not expect any ofthe Board during the year.
of 2.85 pence per share, amounting to signi cant changes to general market 23million, which brings the total dividends conditions in the near term but anticipate Francesco Caio and Pat Zito have informed payable in respect of the year ended 31 March animproved performance due to continued the Board that they do not intend to seek 2013 to 4.6 pence per share 2012: 4.4 pence growth in our higher-margin segments, re-election at the Annual General Meeting per share, an increase of 5%.
The amount especially Software, and the bene ts AGM and accordingly will be retiring from paid per share could increase dependent oftheGroup reorganisation.
theBoard at the close of that meeting.
Given upon the share capital consolidation as the smaller size of the Group following the We expect our Software segment to show detailed below.
disposal of Invensys Rail, we have decided good growth supported by our customers that they willnot be replaced and the future If the return of cash to shareholders and requirements for optimisation, ef ciency Board will now consist of the Chairman, three subsequent share capital consolidation are andproductivity.
The Industrial Automation executive directors and five non-executive approved by shareholders and takeplace as segment is likely to see continued strength in directors.
planned, the Board has recommended that its brown eld revenue stream which will be the total amount of the final dividend will offset by an anticipated decline in revenue The Board would like to thank Francesco and remain the same, 23 million, but will be paid from large green eld projects such as China Pat for their contributions to the Board and we on the smaller number of shares in issue Nuclear: however, margins should improve wish them well for the future.
resulting from the share consolidation.
due to the improved sales mix.
Energy Therefore the amount paid pershare would Controls is likely to be stable as management Our people increase and details of thesechanges will be works to consolidate the range of businesses The achievements of the past year re ect the set out in the circular toshareholders to be and drive market and technology synergies.
efforts of everyone at Invensys.
Many were issued regarding the return of cash.
Appliance is expected to see modest growth involved in the disposal of Invensys Rail and helped by somewhat improved conditions in the subsequent reorganisation and all were Subject to approval by shareholders at the North America.
responsible for ensuring that our daily AGM on 25July 2013, the final dividend will business was not affected by these activities.
be paid on 2 August 2013 to shareholders On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all ont he register at 21 June 2013.
A dividend of Invensys' people for contributing to such a reinvestment plan DRIP is available for this transformational year.
final dividend, which will enable shareholders to reinvest their dividends directly into Invensyss hares.
The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy with future dividend growth re ecting the long-term sustainable trend in underlying earnings pers hare and free cash ow.
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman 15 May 2013 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
