Chairmans statement Key highlights Your company has in place Group-wide commitment to diversity and astrong, highly competent board inclusionadopted thatperforms well.
On 13 February 2014, announced a definitive agreement with Foster Wheeler under which John Connolly AMEC will make a recommended offer for Chairman thecompany Final dividend of 28.5 pence recommended, whichwould make a total dividend for the year of42.0pence, 15 per cent above 2012.
As I write, we have just agreed a recommended offer Tim has supported AMEC through a period of significant forFoster Wheeler AG, the international engineering, and successful change and I have personally valued his construction and project management contractor and power advice and support.
On behalf of us all, I would like to thank equipment supplier.
Your board believes the combination him for his contribution.
ofAMEC and Foster Wheeler would be compelling for all Simon Thompson will take over from Tim as Senior shareholders.
I will talk more about this later.
Independent Director and Chairman of the remuneration First let me address the progress we have made in committee, with Linda Adamany becoming Chairman of otherareas.
We have appointed an independent search company, The Zygos Partnership, to identify new The board board talent with the appropriate skills and experience to Let me start by commenting on our board.
contribute to our future success.
The ultimate goal of your board is to collectively and Our customers rely on our professionalism and expertise effectively lead the company in delivering long-term in delivering their projects.
Your board saw this first hand in sustainable success for the benefit of all of our shareholders.
We gained a greater understanding of the The right mix of individuals is needed to achieve this, each scale and complexity of our projects in the oil sands and of with the relevant experience, skills and determination to the sustainable approach AMEC brings.
We also saw how take the company forward.
Importantly, the board should seriously the company takes its community responsibilities, reflect the diversity of the organisation.
with employees quickly rallying to support those affected by the floods sweeping through Calgary.
These visits are Our board objectives for 2013 included discussing our invaluable in ensuring the board is connected to the policyon diversity and any measurable objectives we business it serves.
wishto set to track progress.
After a wide-ranging review of what diversity means within AMEC and an engaged Board priorities discussion on the conclusions at board level, a group-wide I have spoken previously about how the board should support commitment to diversity and inclusion has been the successful, sustainable growth of your company.
Diversity includes the range of human differences that make us individual and who we are: Firstly, we should debate and agree the strategy the inclusion is about us valuing and using the differences company is to follow and then monitor performance between us.
The implementation of this commitment against the strategic goals.
As we move closer to the end includes measurement and monitoring of progress point of AMECs Vision 2015 growth strategy, board ondiversity and inclusion activities.
discussions have increasingly turned to how we achieve success beyond 2015.
Our geographic organisational 2014 will see changes on our board, with Tim Faithfull, structure was introduced late in 2012, in support of our ourSenior Independent Director and Chairman of the longer-term objectives, and has gained real traction during remuneration committee, standing down at our next AGM.
The organisation is collaborating better and creating 06 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials new opportunities for growth, despite the headwinds Recommended offer for Foster Wheeler AG insome of our markets.
Your board has challenged and AMEC has been transformed in recent years and is now supported management in their acquisition aspirations, highly cash generative.
Your board believes the best use confident in the financial discipline they display.
forthis cash is to invest in growth, returning surplus cash to shareholders if no suitable opportunities are found.
Secondly, we must ensure the company has the right people in place to deliver its targets, now and for the future.
On 13 February 2014 we announced the terms of a Remuneration remains a key part of our people plan and recommended offer for Foster Wheeler.
You can find our remuneration report shows how we link short and thedetails on page 3.
We believe this acquisition would long-term incentives to hard measures of improvement in accelerate achievement of AMECs growth strategy, by the companys performance, in line with the strategy see expanding our position in mid and downstream oil & gas page 60.
Separately, we also maintain regular interaction and enhancing our geographic position in our Growth with the senior management of the company, including Regions.
It is also expected to be financially attractive, Simon Naylor and John Pearson, Group Presidents of withdouble digit earnings enhancement expected Americas and Europe respectively.
Finally, there must be an appropriate level of governance Under the terms of the offer for Foster Wheeler, two of their inplace, a topic I elaborate on later, on page 47.
As I flagged non-executive directors would be nominated tojoin our board last year, during 2013 we launched our updated and from completion of the transaction.
Ibelieve this would simplified global mandatory policies and procedures.
support a successful integration ofourtwo businesses.
These are now easier to understand and so comply with.
Your board remains focused on the achievement of Almost 21,000 of our employees completed our new shareholder value and will remain disciplined in its anti-bribery and corruption training, launched in the approach to this and any other acquisitions.
Good governance needs to inform the decisions our employees take every day.
I talk to our employees In conclusion onaregular basis and so see how seriously we take I believe the potential combination of Foster Wheeler and ourcommitment to safety, how involved we are with AMEC makes strategic and financial sense and I expect ourcommunities and how hard we work to win repeat toupdate you soon on progress.
Importantly, I believe we business from our customers.
For the tenth year in have a highly energised and extremely able team at AMEC.
succession we were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability It is AMECs proven ability to deliver excellence that will Index, which suggests others also recognise the work we underpin our future growth, with or without acquisitions.
do and the way in which we do it.
On your behalf, I would like to thank Samir Brikho, his Performance and shareholder returns management team and all of AMECs nearly 29,000 people Despite downturn in some of our markets, and as fortheir hard work and valuable contribution in 2013. reportedin more detail in the Chief Executives review 1 andelsewhere, our company saw underlying revenues excluding incremental procurement broadly flat and 2 achieved growth in earnings per share of11 per cent John Connolly in2013.
We expect further growth in 2014.
Chairman As a result of our confidence in the outlook, and reflecting 13 February 2014 our strong cash generation, the board is recommending afinal dividend of 28.5 pence per share.
This makes a total of42.0pence per share for the year, a 15per cent increase over 2012 and a dividend cover of2.1times 2012:2.2 times.
If approved, it will be paid on2July 2014 to those shareholders on the register at 30May 2014.
Itisthe boards intention to continue with aprogressive dividend policy, whether or not the Foster Wheeler acquisition goes ahead.
The 400 million share buyback programme which began 1 Underlying revenues, excluding the impact of currency translation in February 2012 was completed in February 2013. and acquisitions 2 Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before intangible amortisation and exceptional items AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 07
