Strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Group remains in an excellent position to expand its business through organic development andacquisitions Revenue m 2013 192.3 2012 172.3 2011 155.5 2010 113.5 2009 116.7 12% 7.0p Dividend per share ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 08 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Group performance year to strengthen itself and the way Outlook This year, the Group has again ITE has continued to expand its in which the Nonexecutives interface business this year through a mixture with the Executives.
Following an enjoyed good trading conditions in its major markets, producing a strong of organic and acquisition led growth.
external review of Board effectiveness, The Group has now firmly established we are adopting a number of initiatives financial performance.
Although large events have traded well, much itself in the Asian exhibition markets in line with the recommendations through its investments in ABEC in of the review.
Notably we intend to of this years growth has come from our portfolio of medium sized events, India, Tradelink and ECMI in Malaysia appoint an additional Nonexecutive and since the end of the financial year Director and establish a separate often run from the smaller regional offices.
This growth in smaller events in Sinostar in China.
Good organic subcommittee of the Board to review growth across our core portfolios in risk and the Groups mitigation of risk.
looks set to continue into 2014, and forecasts are for economic growth Russia and the CIS together with a strong biennial performance from ITE continues to prosper because in Russia to be maintained at current levels.
Currency fluctuations were the Moscow International Oil and Gas of the efforts and loyalty of its staff Exhibition have combined with the worldwide.
The Group now has not a significant factor in this years results, but the Groups results remain newly acquired businesses in Asia to 30 operating offices in 17 different deliver record financial and operating countries with a broad range of sensitive to sterling strength against the currencies of ITEs markets.
In this, the stronger year of its cultural backgrounds, all cooperating biennial pattern, ITEs revenues were with each other and participating 30 November revenues booked for 2014 were 106 million, in line 192.3 million 2012: 172.3 million and in helping to grow ITE.
Almost 50% have yielded headline profits before tax of our staff have been employees with the Boards expectations and representing circa 55% of market of 59.4 million 2012: 53.0 million of ITE for more than five years, and and headline diluted earnings per 60% are participants in one of our expectations for 2014 revenues.
On a likeforlike basis revenues share of 19.3p 2012: 16.9p.
I am proud to be pretax profit was 43.9 million Chairman of a Group with such a are circa 7% ahead of last year.
2012: 40.5 million and fully diluted dedicated employee base, and I, earnings per share was 14.0p 2012: on behalf of the Board, would like The recent announcement of the to thank and acknowledge the Sinostar joint venture means ITE enters 12.8p.
The Group finished the year with net cash of 23.5 million 2012: contribution of ITEs management the new financial year with good and employees to this years result.
business prospects in three of the 13.0 million, after investing 26.1 million on acquisitions during the year.
major emerging market economies: ITEs Board recognises that good Russia, India and China.
Growth board and management corporate governance is in the prospects remain positive in Russia longterm interests of the Group and most of the CIS markets, and the Michael Hartley has served ITE as a Nonexecutive Director since October and we are conscious of our Groups portfolio of core events should responsibilities for setting values continue to perform well.
He has been Chairman of both the Remuneration and Audit which underpin the Group culture.
As balance sheet and operating cashflows, Chairman, I am mindful of my personal the Group remains in an excellent Committees during his tenure and has made a significant contribution responsibility for leading the Board position to expand its business and ensuring it operates effectively.
through organic development and to ITEs Board over the last ten years.
In line with corporate governance acquisitions.
The Board is focused on the execution of ITEs strategy, and has best practice Mike is standing down Dividend at the next AGM of the Company.
ITEs growth has supported a confidence in ITEs future prospects.
On behalf of the Board, I would like consistent increase in annual dividends.
to express our appreciation for his This year the interim dividend was focus and dedication to the Group.
increased from 2.1p to 2.3p and Stephen Puckett joined ITEs Board as the proposed final dividend is 4.7p, a Nonexecutive Director on 1 July 2013 making a full dividend for the year of and will succeed Mike as Chairman 7.0p 2012: 6.5p.
This is an increase of the Audit Committee.
Stephen in dividend of circa 8%, in line with Marco Sodi Nonexecutive Chairman brings a wealth of relevant experience the underlying earnings growth in 2 December 2013 in emerging markets gained in his headline profits over the biennial previous role as Chief Financial Officer cycle.
The final dividend is proposed of Michael Page International PLC.
The for payment on 10 February 2014.
Board has taken positive steps this ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09
