08 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Overview Chairmans Statement Archie Norman of viewing emerging, more catch up, more consumption on connected and mobile devices and indeed new entrants competing for share of the viewers time.
Therefore we must continue to adapt ITV to take advantage of these opportunities.
We see great opportunities ahead as we build on the creative capability of ITV internationally.
However, these will also pose challenges to the way we work internally and externally.
And as we extend our reach it remains vital to sustain the health of our growing channel family in the UK and especially of our flagship channel ITV.
Our ability to tackle these challenges with confidence is reinforced by the transformation of our financial position which has been the result of tight cash management, debt restructuring and cost control: we now have a robust balance sheet and strong cash flow generation.
The Board Dear Shareholder is very mindful of the need to balance the investment ITV today is a much stronger business in almost every requirements of the business to deliver future growth with respect than when the restructured Board and leadership increasing shareholder returns.
The Board has proposed a team were formed four years ago.
When we set out our 35% increase in the ordinary dividend to 3.5p and a 4.0p transformation programme in 2010 the core objective was special dividend in line with last year.
to rebalance the business, to open up new growth paths, and to ensure it is more resilient in a changing media landscape.
ITV remains a regulated business and as the media Whilst there is much further to go, this programme is well landscape changes we continue to see the need for the under way with strong growth in all sources of non-net relaxation of regulatory constraints as non-regulated advertising revenue.
However, we are pleased that our public service licences have now finally been renewed After years of underperformance, our content business is providing a stable platform for another ten years.
now delivering consistent growth under strong creative leadership.
Selected international acquisitions have accelerated progress, particularly in the USA, to form the We are a talent driven, people basis for a global content network.
Meanwhile, online, pay and sponsorships have all shown strong and profitable intensive business.
This has been achieved against the backdrop of difficult economic conditions and subdued consumer progress has been driven by markets.
the leadership, creativity and As a result ITV today is in unrecognisably better health, with strong leadership and a good talent base at all levels.
This motivation of our people does not of course mean we can afford to let the pace of change diminish.
While the traditional broadcast television model remains robust, the market for television-like content is changing faster than ever with new forms 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 08-09 Chairmans statement.
com Stock code: ITV Our philosophy of management has been to combine very The Board is very mindful strong commercial and management leadership with great creative talent.
This approach is also reflected at Board of the need to balance the level where we seek to retain a mix of deep commercial and creative understanding around the Board table.
I am investment requirements delighted therefore that Sir Peter Bazalgette has joined our of the business to deliver Board this year.
Mike Clasper, who made a huge contribution to the Board in good times and bad over the last eight years future growth with increasing has stood down with our thanks.
shareholder returns Finally, we are a talent driven, people intensive business.
Our progress has been driven by the leadership, creativity and motivation of our people.
And I want to thank all our colleagues at ITV for their hard work, and our shareholders for their continuing support.
Archie Norman Chairman Picture: ITV Studios format Big Stars Little Star averaged 4.2 million viewers and will be returning for a second series in 2014.
indd 9 28 02 2014 12:08:17 Financials Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 10 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review Chief Executives Review 12 Performance Dashboard 16 19 1 Strategic Priority 23 2 Strategic Priority 27 3 Strategic Priority 31 4 Strategic Priority Broadchurch Broadchurch was ITVs most watched new drama series since Downton Abbey and its most watched new weeknight drama series since Doc Martin in 2004.
It averaged 9.4 million viewers with the finale attracting 10.5 million viewers and has won multiple awards.
23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 10-15 Strategy and Chief Executives Review.
com Stock code: ITV 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 10-15 Strategy and Chief Executives Review.
