Business review Chairmans letter David Tyler, Chairman We have improved profits while continuing to invest Dear Shareholder, significantly in strengthening the business for the future.
Underlying profit before tax was up 6.2 per Your Board is pleased to report cent to 756 million.
Underlying basic earnings per on what has been another good share were up 9.3 per cent to 30.7 pence.
This year your Board recommends a final dividend of 11.9 year for Sainsburys.
We have pence per share, making a full year dividend of 16.7 outperformed the market, as we pence, which is an increase of 3.7 per cent over the previous year, and which is covered 1.83 times by have done for a number of years, underlying earnings.
Sainsburys remains focused on delivering returns to shareholders and the Board by providing great quality, value continues to plan to increase the dividend each and service, and by remaining year while building cover to two times over the medium term.
true to our values and heritage.
Sainsburys Bank The Bank, started in 1997, has delivered five consecutive years of profit growth.
Its pre-tax profit this year was 59 million, half of which accrues to Sainsburys shareholders.
The Bank has built customer loyalty by offering good quality, value-for-money financial products together with attractive rewards and Nectar points.
We have now reached an agreement with Lloyds Banking Group to acquire its 50 per cent shareholding and take full ownership of Sainsburys Bank.
We are confident this is a move which will benefit customers and shareholders, allowing the full future potential of the Bank to be realised.
We have strengthened the management of the Bank and its Board during the course of the last 12 months.
Peter Griffiths joined as CEO of Sainsburys Bank last autumn and Roger Davis became Chairman in May 2013.
Each brings wide retail banking experience at a senior level to the Bank.
2 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 756m 90m 16.7p Underlying profit Record bonus awarded Proposed full year before tax, up 6.2% to colleagues dividend, up 3.7% A winning team The value of our values I would like to thank all of our 157,000 colleagues Our unique values and strong culture are at the for their efforts in providing excellent service to our heart of our success, and this remains as true today customers.
Our people are the face of Sainsburys as it was when we were founded 144 years ago.
and are central to our success.
We continue to invest Our ambitious 20x20 Sustainability Plan sets out in their training and development, and in ensuring our future commitments and is key to the long-term Sainsburys is a great place to work.
I am delighted sustainability of our business.
It is contributing to that they share in a record bonus of over 90 million greater efficiency, stronger supplier partnerships, this year, meaning that over the last five years we deeper customer loyalty and increased colleague will have awarded over 350 million to colleagues engagement, all of which ultimately generate and in this way.
In December 2012, Anna Ford stood down as a NonOutlook Executive Director of our plc Board.
I would like to The wider economic situation looks likely to remain thank Anna for the contribution she has made since challenging, but we have consistently demonstrated her appointment in 2006, both as a valued member we can succeed against this backdrop.
Furthermore, of the Board and as Chairman of our Corporate we see exciting growth opportunities as we bring Responsibility Committee.
During her tenure, our great food, clothing and general merchandise Corporate Responsibility has become an integral to more customers across multiple channels, part of the Groups business and we have benefited via our focused space, new technology and new tremendously from Annas experience and skills.
We appointed Jean Tomlin to the plc Board We remain committed to delivering value for in January 2013.
She chairs the Groups shareholders and growing profits while making Corporate Responsibility Committee and sits on investments for the future.
The foundations for the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
growth are in place and your Board believes this Jeans experience and breadth of skills will be a positions us well to achieve our vision to be the most great addition to the Board and we welcome her trusted retailer, where people love to work and shop.
In addition, we have appointed Lady Susan Rice as a Non-Executive Director to the plc Board with effect from June 2013.
Her extensive retail banking experience, mainly at NatWest and Lloyds Banking Group, is particularly relevant to us given our agreement to acquire full ownership of Sainsburys David Tyler Bank, and we also welcome her to Sainsburys.
Chairman Gwyn Burr, Customer Service and Colleague Director, left the Operating Board in March 2013.
Gwyn played a key role in delivering our business turn round and I am delighted that she will continue in her role as a Non-Executive Director of Sainsburys Bank.
In January 2013, we welcomed Angie Risley on to our Operating Board as Group HR Director.
Angie was previously Group HR Director at Lloyds Banking Group and Whitbread, and brings a wealth of experience having worked at Board level in a number of large customer-facing companies.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 3
