James Fisher and Sons plc Chairmans statement Group revenue up by 14% to 413.7m and underlying profit before tax up 18% to 41.4m Charles Rice, Chairman The majority of the Groups activities are therefore Group results and dividend focused on the offshore oil, gas and renewables sectors James Fisher and Sons plc made significant progress together with an increasing presence in the nuclear in 2013 with Group revenue up by 14% to 413.7m decommissioning and condition monitoring businesses.
and underlying profit before tax up 18% to 41.4m.
Working with their strong multi-national client base, these Underlying diluted earnings per share was 65.6 pence, businesses have expanded their international footprint an increase of 19% over 2012. significantly in recent years and have benefited from the strong growth seen in the new markets offshore of All four of the Groups operating divisions contributed to Africa, Brazil and the Far East.
the strong pattern of growth underpinning these results.
Marine Support achieved further expansion of its ship to In March, the Group acquired Divex for an initial ship transfer and mooring operations while making good consideration of 20.8m.
This Aberdeen based progress with the development of its support contracts company is a leader in the saturation diving equipment and diving businesses.
Offshore Oil did particularly well, market, servicing both the commercial and defence benefitting from favourable market conditions in the North sectors in a strongly international setting.
Its expertise, Sea as well as making significant progress in the new deep customers and operational bases fit well with our JF sea markets off Brazil and Africa.
Specialist Technicals Defence submarine rescue business.
Together, they will excellent result reflected the first-time contribution from form a strong specialist subsea business with combined Divex Limited Divex, a leading equipment supplier to the operations in the UK, Far East and Australia and a saturation diving market which was acquired in March and broader spread of customers which will help even out performed ahead of expectations.
Our Nuclear business the peaks and troughs that have affected our Defence within Specialist Technical also did well, broadening its business in recent years.
customer base significantly while producing another good result.
Tankships improved its earnings further by careful In July, we announced the disposal of our 25% interest in attention to costs and by managing capacity to reflect the Foreland Shipping for an initial consideration of 11.4m in level of contract demand.
cash with potential additional consideration in the event of the sale of certain assets.
This Private Finance Roll-on The strength of the Groups trading performance in 2013 and Roll-off support ship contract to the Ministry of Defence the continued positive outlook has led the Board to propose had reduced in scale following the Defence Review.
The a 15% increase in the final dividend to 13.54 pence per share Board therefore decided that it was better to release the which together with the 6.46 pence interim will bring the total capital tied up in this business for reinvestment into faster dividend for the year to 20.0 pence per share 2012: 17.7p.
growing areas of the Group.
An example of this was the acquisition in August of Osiris Marine for 3.3m, a diving services company which enhanced the Groups offering Strategic developments to the offshore renewables sector.
The Group continues to benefit from its consistent strategy of investing in niche businesses which operate in The combination of strong cash conversion from the demanding environments where their strong marine service Groups trading activities together with the sale of our and specialist engineering skills are valued and rewarded.
Foreland interest led to a further reduction in year-end 2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc gearing to 30%.
The strength of our balance sheet expands overseas these businesses become means that the Group is well placed to take advantage increasingly complex.
A number of sectors are marked of further organic growth and acquisition opportunities in by shortages of skilled engineering staff.
wide initiative we are therefore paying increased attention to our in-house training and to our graduate and management development programmes.
This The Board investment comes at a cost but will enable us both to At our last AGM we announced that Maurice continue growing and to manage increased complexity Storey would retire from his role as Senior Nonas we go forward.
In his ten years on the Board, Maurice made a significant contribution Our success depends more than ever on the dedication to the development of the Group and brought deep and professionalism of our staff.
On behalf of the Board, technical and maritime expertise.
Malcolm Paul was I would like to thank all our staff for the tremendous appointed Senior Non-Executive Director on 31 commitment shown throughout all our businesses over December 2013.
In August, I was delighted to be able the last year.
to announce the appointment of David Moorhouse formerly Executive Chairman of Lloyds Register Outlook and of Michael Salter formerly Chief Operating The increased scale of the Group and its enhanced Officer of Abbot Group plc as new Non-Executive international presence has reinforced the Groups Directors.
Between them they strengthen the Boards market position in the demanding environments of the insight into the oil and gas sectors and provide a offshore, marine and nuclear sectors.
This gives us full replacement of Maurice Storeys technical and confidence that our operating companies will continue maritime knowledge.
their recent pattern of growth across a broad front.
In particular, demand for our services remains strong in Having ensured a period of hand-over, Michael our Offshore Oil division while our Specialist Technical Everard has also decided to retire from the Board at subsea and nuclear businesses have a healthy order the end of April.
Michael has served on the Board for book in a growing market.
All divisions will benefit from over seven years and helped shape the integration the strength of our balance sheet which will enable us of FT Everard into the Group following its acquisition to invest further in organic growth opportunities and to in 2006.
I would like to thank Maurice and Michael continue with our programme of targeted acquisitions.
for the great contribution that they have made to the Groups development over the last years.
Trading to date in 2014 has been to management expectations and we continue to be well placed to Staff provide further growth and value for our shareholders.
The success of James Fisher remains linked to our ability to retain and develop the entrepreneurial drive Charles Rice and professionalism of the staff and management 3 March 2014 teams in our operating companies.
As the Group Saturation Diving System In October 2013 Divex completed the design, manufacture and supply of a 450 metre rated saturation diving system.
The system, worth in excess of 10m, is to be installed onto a Navy rescue ship in 2014.
The system is a unique design that accommodates 12 divers in saturation, allowing three-man bell excursions to depths of 450 metres to gain access to stricken submarines.
The chamber complex can also accommodate up to 60 submariners in the event that they require decompression following rescue.
