CHAIRMANS STATEMENT, OPERATING AND FINANCE REVIEW Background As in recent years, we have tried to make our report and accounts more readable by dividing them into two sections.
Section 1 contains the main financial statements, while section 2 contains mainly corporate governance reports.
We have also tried to reduce jargon and repetition, wherever possible, although this is a major task, especially in respect of corporate governance reports and any area which concerns accounting.
I am pleased to report a year of further progress for the company, with record sales, profit and earnings per share before exceptional items.
The company was founded in 1979 and this is the 30th year since incorporation in 1983.
The table below outlines some key indicators of our performance during that period.
Since our flotation in 1992, earnings per share before exceptional items and free cash flow have grown by an average of 16.4 per cent per annum.
The weighted average number of shares, EPS and free cash flow per 1.
Where appropriate, the EPS, as disclosed in the statutory accounts, share include those shares held in trust for employee share schemes.
has been recalculated to take account of share splits, the issue of 4.
Before 2005, the accounts were prepared under UKGAAP.
All accounts new shares and capitalisation issues.
from 2005 to date have been prepared under IFRS.
Free cash flow per share excludes dividends paid which were included in the free cash flow calculations in the annual report and accounts for the years 19952000.
2 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT, OPERATING AND FINANCE REVIEW The year under review comprised 52 weeks, whereas 2012: 5.8 million and payments of tax and interest, the previous year was 53 weeks.
Unless stated, the decreased by 26.2 million to 65.3 million comparisons below reflect the fact that there was one 2012: 91.5 million, owing to a working capital outflow week fewer in the year under review than in the previous of 6.0 million in the year under review, compared with year.
Like-for-like sales, on a 52-week basis, increased by an inflow of 35.5 million in the previous year.
Free cash 5.8%, with total sales of 1,280.9 million for the 52 weeks, flow per share was 51.8p 2012: 70.4p.
increasing by 7.0%, compared with the 53-week period in the previous year 2012: 11.7%.
Like-for-like bar sales Property increased by 3.8% 2012: 2.8%, food sales by 10.9% The company opened 29 pubs during the year, with three 2012: 4.8% and machine sales by 0.4% pubs sold, resulting in a total estate of 886 pubs at the 2012: decreased by 2.8%.
The average development cost for a new pub excluding the cost of freeholds was Operating profit before exceptional items increased by 1.55 million, compared with 1.42 million a year ago, 3.7% to 111.3 million 2012: 107.3 million and, after as we continue to increase expenditure on kitchens, exceptional items, decreased by 2.5% to 91.5 million customer areas and beer gardens.
The operating margin, before depreciation charge was 53.1 million 2012: 49.2 million.
exceptional items, decreased to 8.7% 2012: 9.0%, mainly as a result of increases in taxation, utilities and bar We currently intend to open around 30 pubs in the year and food costs.
The operating margin after exceptional ending July 2014. items was 7.1% 2012: 7.8%.
Property litigation Profit before tax and exceptional items increased by As reported in our interim accounts, Wetherspoon 6.3% to 76.9 million 2012: 72.4 million and, after agreed on an out-of-court settlement with developer exceptional items, decreased by 3.0% to 57.1 million Anthony Lyons, formerly of property leisure agent 2012: 58.9 million.
Earnings per share which exclude Davis Coffer Lyons.
Wetherspoon has received shares held in trust by the employee share scheme before approximately 1.25 million from Mr Lyons.
exceptional items increased by 13.3% to 46.8p 2012: 41.3p.
Basic earnings on the same basis after The payment relates to litigation in which Wetherspoon exceptional items increased by 7.6% to 38.3p claimed that Mr Lyons had been an accessory to frauds 2012: 35.6p.
committed by Wetherspoons former retained agent Van fide Berg and its directors Christian Braun, If the weighted average number of shares held in trust by George Aldridge and Richard Harvey.
Mr Lyons denied the employee share scheme is included in the calculation, the claim and the litigation was contested.
earnings per share before exceptional items increased by 12.6% to 44.8p 2012: 39.8p.
The claim related to properties in Portsmouth, Leytonstone and Newbury.
The Portsmouth property was Net interest was covered 3.2 times by operating profit involved in the 2008 9 Van fide Berg case itself.
In that before exceptional items 2012: 3.1 times and 2.7 times case, Mr Justice Peter Smith found that Van fide Berg, but by operating profit after exceptional items 2012: 2.7 times.
not Mr Lyons, who was not a party to the case, Total capital investment was 101.8 million in the period fraudulently diverted the freehold from Wetherspoon to 2012: 120.6 million, with 60.9 million on new pub Moorstown Properties Limited, a company owned by openings 2012: 75.4 million and 40.9 million on Simon Conway.
Moorstown leased the premises to existing pubs and IT infrastructure 2012: 45.2 million.
Wetherspoon is still a leaseholder of this property a pub called The Isambard Kingdom Brunel.
Exceptional items before tax totalled 19.8 million 2012: 13.5 million, 0.2 million of which resulted in The properties in Leytonstone and Newbury the other the expenditure of cash.
The exceptional items relate to properties in the case against Mr Lyons were not pleaded the impairment of trading pub assets of 15.6 million in the 2008 9 Van fide Berg case.
Leytonstone was leased 2012: 7.8 million, a provision for onerous leases of to Wetherspoon and trades today as The Walnut Tree 3.3 million 2012: 2.2 million and a loss on the public house.
Newbury was leased to Pelican plc and disposal of property, plant and equipment of 1.0 million became Caf Rouge.
The total provision for impairment and onerous leases is now 47.6 million, compared with Before the year end, the company also agreed to settle its the original cost of our assets of 1.58 billion.
final claim in this series of cases and accepted 400,000 from property investor Jason Harris, formerly of First Free cash flow, after capital investment of 40.9 million London and now of First Urban Group.
Wetherspoon on existing pubs 2012: 45.2 million, 8.8 million in alleged that Harris was an accessory to frauds committed respect of share purchases for employees under the by Van fide Berg.
Harris contested the claim and has not companys share-based payment schemes admitted liability.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT, OPERATING AND FINANCE REVIEW In the previous year, Wetherspoon also agreed on a advantageous investments in the future, the board has settlement with Paul Ferrari, of London estate agent decided to maintain the dividend at its current level for Ferrari Dewe & Co, in respect of properties referred to the time being.
as the Ferrari Five by Mr Justice Peter Smith.
Further progress Further shareholder information about these cases is As in the past, the company has tried to improve many available in a short article which I wrote for the trade areas of the business.
During the year, our catering team publication Propel: this is reproduced on page 7 of this upgraded many items on our menu and introduced several report.
new items which, together, helped to produce strong likefor-like sales growth.
As regards bar sales, in the face of Corporation tax fierce competition from supermarkets, we achieved record The overall tax charge including deferred tax on volumes of traditional ales and ciders and continued to pre-exceptional items, before taking into account the promote a wide range of attractive bottled beers, wines effect of the tax-rate change on deferred tax is 26.6% and spirits from the UK and the rest of the world.
The UK standard average tax rate for the period is 23.7% 2012: 25.3%.
The difference between We continue to recognise that attracting and retaining the effective tax rate of 26.6% and the standard average the best employees are the keys to future success: in this rate of UK corporation tax of 23.7% is 2.9% context, bonuses and free shares totalling 28.6 million, 2012: 3.2% which is due primarily to the level of which amounts to 37% of our profits before tax, were non-qualifying depreciation depreciation which does paid to employees.
About 83% of this sum was paid to not qualify for tax relief.
employees working in our pubs, with just over half being paid to the pub management team and the remainder The pre-exceptional current tax rate which excludes being paid to our hourly paid staff.
This is largely due to the standard average rate of UK As in previous years, we have continued our efforts in corporation tax falling from 25.3% to 23.7%, offset by respect of training, including both government-sponsored reduced capital allowances being available.
apprenticeship schemes and our own schemes, enabling many thousands of employees, over the years, to start as Financing bar staff and progress through various stages of As at 28 July 2013, the companys total net debt, promotion to become duty managers and, eventually, for including bank borrowings and finance leases, but successful candidates, pub managers.
Most of our area excluding derivatives, was 474.2 million managers, each of whom is responsible for approximately 2012: 462.6 million, an increase of 11.6 million.
a dozen pubs, started as a pub manager.
A large Factors which have led to the increase in debt are percentage of the senior management positions in the 29 new pub openings costing 60.9 million, investment company generally are occupied by those who have in existing pubs of 40.9 million and dividend payments previously run pubs.
Year-end net-debt-to-EBITDA was 2.88 times 2012: 2.96 times.
We continue our efforts to improve our IT systems.
Our myJDW website, which enables close communication As at 28 July 2013, the company had 111.0 million between employees and the company, continues to be 2012: 128.5 million of unutilised banking facilities upgraded.
We have also invested in other areas, including and cash balances, with total facilities of 575.0 million faster credit-card approval at the bar in our pubs, so 2012: 575.0 million.
The companys existing increasing the speed of service for customers and also interest-rate swap arrangements remain in place.
Following the period end, the company agreed on a We have continued our efforts in raising money for new bank facility with a syndicate of nine banks which CLIC Sargent, which supports young cancer patients and increased the funds available to 690.0 million and their families.
In the year, we raised over 1.6 million for extended the term to March 2018. the charity, bringing the total raised to 7.6 million, making Wetherspoon the biggest corporate partner for Dividends and return of capital CLIC Sargent.
The board proposes, subject to shareholders approval, to pay a final dividend of 8.0p per share General tax matters 2012: 8.0p per share, on 28 November 2013, to those As we have pointed out in previous years, we believe that shareholders on the register on 25 October 2013, giving pubs are taxed excessively and that the government a total dividend for the year of 12.0p per share would create more jobs and receive higher levels of 2012: 12.0p per share.
The dividend is covered 3.2 times overall revenue, if it were to create tax parity among 2012: 3.0 times by earnings.
In view of high levels of supermarkets, pubs and restaurants.
Supermarkets pay capital expenditure in recent years and the potential for virtually no VAT in respect of food sales, whereas pubs 4 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT, OPERATING AND FINANCE REVIEW pay 20% and this disparity enables supermarkets to Tax parity day subsidise their alcoholic drinks sales to the detriment of In order to draw attention to the current unfair tax pubs and, indeed, restaurants.
This serious economic rgime, Wetherspoon is supporting Tax Parity Day disadvantage has contributed to the closure of many Wednesday, 25 September 2013 in association with thousands of pubs, and the pub industry has lost Jacques Borels VAT Club also supported by many approximately 50% of its beer sales to supermarkets since others, including Punch, Fullers, Pizza Hut and thousands VAT was increased from 8% over 30 years ago.
At Wetherspoon, we are reducing our prices by about 7.5%, to reflect the likely reduction in This does not make economic sense for the government, prices which consumers would see, if VAT in pubs were since pubs create far more jobs per meal or per pint than reduced.
We are sure that this offer will be extremely supermarkets, for reasons which are self-evident.
They popular with customers and will, undoubtedly, increase also pay far more taxes per pint or per meal than the amount of revenue for the government as well, if it supermarkets, and this would remain the case, even if succeeds in reversing the increase in off-sales through VAT levels were reduced in pubs.
It cannot make sense supermarkets, even for one day.
for any government to perpetuate a tax advantage for supermarkets in this context.
Corporate governance In my opinion, it is a strange paradox that companies in A main consequence of the tax disparity between the pub business which have complied least with supermarkets and pubs is that pubs in the less-well-off governance guidelines seem to have fared the best.
areas of the country suffer most, as do the residents and Family brewers like Fullers, Youngs and Shepherd Neame, local authorities in those areas, who are deprived of the which have often had a chairman who had previously facilities and, to an extent, the income from taxes they been chief executive, a majority of executives on the would otherwise receive.
This is because customers in board and non-executive directors who are either not less-well-off areas are more sensitive, as a matter of independent or have been on the board for more than common sense, to the price differential which is created by the recommended time, have tended to do well, whereas the current tax rgime.
As a result, they inevitably end up the compliant boards of the large pub companies have using supermarkets more and pubs less.
The results are struggled greatly, in many cases, in the last decade.
evident to see, with large numbers of pubs closing in less-affluent areas, with undesirable social and economic One reason may be that the non-compliant boards have consequences in the majority of the country.
In affluent been more resistant to the sometimes foolish ideas which areas, the price differential between pubs and take hold of financial markets.
The main misconceived supermarkets is less acutely felt, although still important for fashion of the last decade and a half has been in relation a considerable percentage of those living in these areas.
to so-called efficient balance sheets.
This fashion encouraged excessively high levels of debt and Wetherspoon is happy to pay its share of tax and, in this arrangements such as opco propco, which also increased respect, is a major contributor to the economy.
In the year financial gearing.
under review, we paid total taxes of 551.5 million, an increase of 32.2 million compared with the previous However, a sensible system of corporate governance, in year, which equates to approximately 43% of our sales.
which non-executive directors play an important role, is clearly necessary, to provide guidance and rules in areas such as levels of pay, appropriate ethical behaviour and to 2013 2012 m m try to restrain egotism and excess in the boardroom.
VAT 253.0 241.2 As Warren Buffet has pointed out, it is easier to criticise Alcohol duty 144.4 136.8 corporate governance regulations than to suggest PAYE and NIC 70.2 67.1 alternatives.
My own view is that companies should Business rates 46.4 43.9 Corporation tax 18.4 18.2 carefully question whether compliance with the existing Machine duty 7.2 3.3 guidelines is beneficial in the following areas: Climate change levy 4.3 1.9 Fuel duty 2.0 1.9 i Non-executive tenure Carbon tax 2.6 2.4 The discouragement of non-executives who remain at a Stamp duty 1.0 0.8 company longer than nine years may often be Landfill tax 1.3 1.3 counterproductive, since it usually means that directors Premise licences and TV licences 0.7 0.5 have not seen the effects of a recession, for example, on Total tax 551.5 519.3 the company which they serve.
It may be desirable, in Tax per pub 000 632 617 principle, for companies to have non-executive directors Tax as % of sales 43.1% 43.4% who have been there longer than nine years, but it is Pre-exceptional profit after tax 65.2 57.3 important for the board and the chairman to take a Profit after tax as % of sales 5.1% 4.8% commonsense view, to reduce the dangers of cronyism ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT, OPERATING AND FINANCE REVIEW or excessive familiarity which might reduce a directors vi General point good judgement.
A related matter concerns the huge increase in the size and incomprehensibility of annual reports and accounts: ii Remuneration guidelines this has been exacerbated by corporate governance The corporate governance guidelines have a strong reports.
As has been well documented, remuneration presumption in favour of bonuses and awards which are committee reports, for example, are often extremely based on specific targets.
In my opinion, this setting of difficult to understand.
Many corporate governance targets has been a key factor in the demise of the banks reports are full of business jargon and repetition.
The and many other businesses, since it has encouraged financial reports themselves are often the worst excessive debt.
Targets can also create distortions in the offenders, frequently using obscure language and behaviour of executives, since they can often be definitions.
The net effect of this is that annual reports, achieved by, for example, reducing costs to a level which which should be read by shareholders, have become adversely affects customer service or by other types of extremely difficult to digest and many people have behaviour which prejudice long-term success for the given up.
Wetherspoon has attempted, no doubt benefit of relatively short-term gains.
A considerable imperfectly, to reduce jargon and repetition in this report percentage of Wetherspoon share awards is not based and accounts which are now considerably briefer than on targets, other than the requirement of working for most similar documents.
the company at the time at which the shares are issued.
Naturally, the future value of the shares will depend on Summary the success of the company.
In my opinion, it is undoubtedly desirable for there to be a set of corporate governance guidelines, similar to iii Chief executive becomes chairman those which exist today, by which shareholders and Several of the family brewers, for example, have decided non-executives can create pressure for poorly performing that a chief executive should become chairman and this executives to change their behaviour.
However, for the can add ballast and gravitas to the board and increase reasons set out above, I believe that there are potential resistance to some of the more harmful ideas which have dangers in strict compliance with existing corporate beset the financial community.
This seems to have worked governance guidelines and the qualifications which are well where the chairman represents family interests, as suggested above may, in the round, be beneficial to well as his own shareholding, in the company.
iv Majority of non-executives on the board Current trading and outlook Wetherspoon complies with this advice at the current The biggest danger to the pub industry, as indicated time, but I believe that it may often be disadvantageous above, is the VAT disparity between supermarkets and for a board to have a majority of non-executives.
Wetherspoon, along with many pub and restaurant because it encourages an unrealistically low number of companies, is supporting Jacques Borels VAT Club on Tax executives on the board, which risks unduly increasing the Parity Day Wednesday, 25 September 2013, to publicise power of the chief executive.
Alternatively, this practice this inequality.
In the pub industry, at least, I believe that companies which have had a In the six weeks to 8 September 2013, like-for-like sales majority of executives have fared better than those which increased by 3.6%, with total sales increasing by 7.8%.
have had a majority of non-executives.
In the last fortnight, like-for-like sales were 2.5% and this may be a reasonable indicator of future sales trends, v Board evaluation in the light of strong sales in the last financial year.
A recent requirement of corporate governance is a recommendation for a third party to evaluate the Overall, therefore, the company is aiming for a reasonable functioning of the board.
Delegation of a key task of the outcome in the current financial year.
chairman and of the directors of the board itself to a third party, often with little or no connection with the companys business and with a very limited knowledge of Tim Martin the directors, may be a dangerous step for a board to Chairman take.
It is the function of the board itself to evaluate its 13 September 2013 own performance and the performance is most evident from the performance of the underlying business.
For this reason, I believe it to be best for Wetherspoon to continue with its current system of self-evaluation.
