6 Chairmans statement Introduction Board changes 2013 has been a year of good growth and In September, we announced that Mike important strategic development for the Group Straughen, Group Director for Wood Group under Bob Keillers leadership in his first full Engineering intends to retire from the Board year as CEO, having taken over in November during 2014.
Mike has stepped away from 2012.
My appointment as Chairman at that time his Wood Group Engineering role and now reflected the need for continuity amongst the oversees the Groups Health, Safety, Security senior team.
Since his appointment in 2012, Bob and Environment HSSE activities and sits on the has shown excellent leadership as he further Safety & Assurance committee.
The committee is develops the Groups strategy and direction.
chaired by Tom Botts, formerly of Shell, who was appointed as non-executive director in January Having supported Bob through the planned 2013. period of transition I will retire from the Board at the AGM in May.
I am delighted that Ian Marchant In October we entered an agreement to form a 2013 has been a year of good will take over as Chairman of Wood Group.
joint venture between elements of Wood Group Ian knows the Group well, having served as a GTS and Siemens TurboCare business, at which growth and important strategic non-executive director on the Board since 2006, point Mark Dobler, Group Director for Wood development for the Group.
latterly as senior independent director.
Ian was Group GTS stepped down from the Board.
Mark Having supported Bob through the Chief Executive of SSE plc for over 10 years, will transfer to the new joint venture on formation is non-executive chairman of Infinis Energy plc as its CEO.
planned period of transition, I will and a non-executive director of Aggreko plc.
His retire from the Board at the AGM on Neil H Smith retired from the Board in December.
appointment represents a natural evolution in Neil was a non-executive director from 2004 and 14 May 2014.
I am delighted that the Groups stewardship and provides important served on the Remuneration and Nomination continuity.
I am confident that Ian will be an Ian Marchant will take over as Committees during his time on the Board.
His excellent leader of the Board and ensure its Chairman of Wood Group.
His knowledge of the power generation industry continued effectiveness.
greatly assisted Board discussions on the appointment represents a natural strategic development of our gas turbine evolution in the Groups stewardship Markets activities.
Energy markets generally remained favourable and provides important continuity.
during 2013 with analysts typically estimating an I have enjoyed leading Wood Group during an increase in E&P spend of around 10%.
For 2014, exciting period of organic growth and strategic analysts estimate some reduction in that growth development including, most recently, the rate, reflecting a greater focus on capital budgets acquisition of PSN and the sale of the Groups by our customers.
The Group continues to have a Well Support business.
I am leaving the Group good balance of opex and capex activities which well positioned for growth in good long-term should help underpin growth in the medium term.
markets and in the hands of a strong Board and management team.
I will continue to follow the Allister G Langlands, Chairman Groups ongoing development with keen interest.
Financial performance and dividends Finally, I would like to thank our management and In 2013, Total Revenue was up 3% and Total employees for their enormous and continuing EBITA was up 16% to $533.0m, with EBITA contribution in making Wood Group a great margin increasing from 6.7% to 7.5%.
diluted EPS increased from 85.2 cents to 98.6 cents.
We are declaring a final dividend of 14.9 cents which will bring the full year dividend to 22.0 cents, an increase of 29% on 2012.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
