Strategic Report Chairmans Statement the Government of Kazakhstan and the three founder shareholders of ENRC, with the intention of buying the outstanding shares of 'HOLYHULQJ ENRC and taking the company private.
The consortium offered ENRC shareholders a mixture of cash and Kazakhmys shares, transformation the latter coming from the Governments holding in Kazakhmys.
The Board of Kazakhmys was concerned about corporate governance and the financial outlook for ENRC.
With the Boards recommendation, and following the approval of independent Kazakhmys shareholders, we accepted the offer for our 26% holding in ENRC.
In exchange for our holding we received $875 million in net cash proceeds and 77 million Kazakhmys shares, which have been cancelled.
The performance of our investment in ENRC was disappointing, but this transaction was considered the best available option to realise the value of such a large and illiquid stake.
The cancellation of the Kazakhmys shares received, representing 14% of our shares in issue at that time, has signicantly changed the share register and Simon Heale, Chairman Kazakhmys now has a majority free oat of 57%.
We are the first of the newly listed resource companies on the London Stock Exchange In March 2012, my predecessor Vladimir Kim described the to have reached a majority free oat.
The reduction of the shares development of a new Kazakhmys focused on copper production in issue will enhance future returns to shareholders.
from a core of large-scale open pit mines.
The new Kazakhmys In early 2013, we announced that we were looking at the potential will provide both a safer operating environment for our workforce disposal of our 50% holding in Kazakhstans largest power station, and improved financial returns to our shareholders.
The disposal of Ekibastuz GRES-1 was approved During 2013, we carried out some significant actions which help by shareholders shortly after the year end and will result in net take us towards this vision with the disposal of non-core assets proceeds of $1.25 billion, compared to an effective purchase and the continued development of our major growth projects.
price for the assets sold of $580 million.
However, there is still work to do and 2014 will be a critical year The refurbishment of Ekibastuz GRES-1 was progressing well, but in this transformation.
the sale was considered to be in the best interest of shareholders.
In 2013, we were met by lower metals prices and rising costs.
With the profits from Ekibastuz GRES-1 being reinvested back into Management successfully took action to reduce costs which is its refurbishment, dividends to Kazakhmys were deemed unlikely reected in the financial results, but these conditions highlighted in the medium term and there was uncertainty over the tariff the challenges at our current operations.
Alongside our optimisation regime beyond 2015. programme, we initiated an asset review in order to improve the These three disposals allow management to focus solely on our profitability of our existing copper assets and it became clear that core copper business, increase the efficiency of our existing assets more significant and structural change is required.
and deliver our growth projects.
Health and safety remains a key focus for the Board.
I am Over the past few years, a combination of declining grades, cost disappointed to report that there were 18 fatalities in 2013. ination and lower commodity prices has put significant pressure Improvements continue to be made and the positive impact of on our profitability and cash generation.
In response to the pressure several measures introduced in the prior year has proved sustainable on margins and the future spend on the Groups major growth through 2013, but we remain a long way from our target of zero projects, we commenced an optimisation programme and asset fatalities.
All fatalities are unacceptable and avoidable and the Board review, including a re-assessment of the Groups integrated model.
will continue to demand significant improvement in health and safety.
The objective was to achieve sustainable positive cash ow from Over the past 12 months we sold our three non-core businesses.
our existing operations focusing on profitable production rather Completing these transactions will realise a total of $2,179 million than volume targets.
in cash and will signicantly benefit our balance sheet.
Actions to improve efficiencies in the second half of 2013 The first disposal was MKM, a downstream copper business based resulted in annualised net cost savings of approximately $120 million.
MKM was a profitable business, but did not t with There were also reductions in sustaining capital expenditure and our focus on mining in Central Asia.
The disposal was completed these measures will be continued and extended in 2014. in May 2013 for 42 million in consideration, including 12 million The Board believes that a number of mature assets, primarily in on a deferred basis.
We also received a dividend of 10 million the Zhezkazgan and Central Regions, will struggle to meet their from MKM during the year.
own ongoing investment needs and contribute to overall cash ow.
Kazakhmys was the largest single shareholder in ENRC, with The prospect of successfully optimising and investing in these assets a holding of 26%.
ENRC, which is principally involved in mining may be limited whilst they remain under the Groups ownership, bulk metals in Kazakhstan, had seen its share price weakened by a and they do not t within the Groups strategy of production dominated by large-scale open pit mines.
number of factors and in April 2013 a consortium was formed by 6 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report For more information see pages 22 Corporate Governance Overview 60 Governance Framework The Group is therefore reviewing the feasibility of separating The performance of our share price in 2013 has been disappointing.
these assets into a separate corporate entity with a view to The mining sector as a whole has been out of favour, with investors potential disposal.
Vladimir Kim has indicated he will consider seeking companies that have high levels of cash generation and creating a vehicle, owned by him personally, to hold these assets.
capacity for dividends, which has encouraged the cancellation of His knowledge of the assets, understanding of the operating projects and the reduction of capital expenditure across the industry.
environment and standing in Kazakhstan makes this the most In addition to the general sector trend, Kazakhmys shares have feasible route to exit from these operations.
Discussions on such a been impacted by our reduced profit margin, concerns about the transaction are at a preliminary stage.
Should this disposal proceed, profitability of some of our assets and the performance of our it would be reviewed by the independent Directors of the Board, holding in ENRC.
and, as a related party transaction, be subject to the approval of The Board believes that the long-term success of Kazakhmys is independent shareholders.
dependent on improving the cash generation of the underlying A restructuring of this nature would base the Group on the business and delivering the major growth projects.
This will existing assets in the East Region, along with Bozymchak and the provide the best return for shareholders and greater stability for major growth projects.
The East Region contains four higher grade all stakeholders.
The share price will always be impacted by the mines which combine well with the development period of the performance of metals prices, over which we have no control, major projects.
but the substantial changes we are undertaking should create significant shareholder value.
Further statements on the progress of the proposal will be made as and when appropriate.
Our dividend policy, as set out at Listing, is for the Board to consider the cash generation and nancing requirements of the business and The delivery of our two current major growth projects at then recommend a suitable dividend.
This policy maintains exibility Bozshakol and Aktogay is central to the Groups transformation on dividend payments, which is appropriate given the underlying and we have implemented some significant changes at the projects cyclicality of a commodity business.
Given the current low level of during the year.
cash generation from our existing assets, the ongoing asset review Most of the critical development targets at Bozshakol have and the expenditure on our growth projects, the Board does not been met to date, but there were concerns over the principal recommend a dividend at this time.
contractors ability to maintain satisfactory progress.
Since Listing, Kazakhmys has returned a total of $2,095 million to In December 2013, we appointed Non Ferrous China as a shareholders, in ordinary and special dividends and share buy-backs.
The appointment of Non Ferrous Such a level of return compares favourably within the sector.
China gives the Board greater confidence that the timetable will be When the outcome and delivery of the restructuring is clearer, maintained and that the project will commence as planned in 2015. and as Bozshakol moves into commissioning, then returning funds There is additional cost of $350 million arising from the change, but to shareholders will be a key consideration.
this should secure the start-up date, and hence the timing of cash In my first year as Chairman I should like to thank my fellow ow generation from the project, thereby avoiding the greater loss Directors and senior executives for their support.
In particular, of value which would have resulted from a delay.
I should like to thank Vladimir Kim for his assistance in the At Aktogay we are replacing the previous single principal contract handover of the Chairmans role and for his continued support with several smaller contracts.
There will be a change to the overall and commitment to Kazakhmys.
My appointment as independent project cost, which will only be nalised once all the tenders are Chairman ensures that the Group now fully complies with the complete.
We have maintained a start date of 2015 for commencing requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board extraction from the oxide section, but are moving first production has always placed a high emphasis on good governance.
Governance from the sulphide section to 2017, spreading the expenditure is not a simple task, but a continuous journey and one to which we on the projects.
During 2013, a major copper project, Koksay, became available It is clear that 2014 will be a demanding but significant year for in Kazakhstan.
Koksay is consistent with our strategy of future Kazakhmys.
We rmly believe there is a positive outlook for copper, production from a small group of large scale, low cost, open pit a metal which is fundamental to economic development and which mines, is in our key operating area and should provide attractive has a constrained supply in the long term.
The new Kazakhmys, of long-term returns.
The Board has accordingly approved the potential predominantly large scale, low cost, open pit mines in Central Asia, purchase of this project for $260 million, of which $65 million will be will be in a strong position to take advantage of these markets deferred.
significant development expenditure will not be incurred and I look forward to updating shareholders as we progress until after Bozshakol has commenced production.
The transaction through the year.
is intended to be completed shortly.
Simon Heale The disposal of the non-core assets will reduce strain on the Chairman balance sheet.
At the year end, there was net debt of $771 million, equivalent to net funds of $478 million following the receipt of the Ekibastuz sale proceeds on a pro forma basis.
However, holding three major projects with their associated capital spend creates specic risks and the Board is considering partnering options on the major growth projects in order to share some of the risk and reduce the capital requirements.
