KCOM Group PLC Chairmans statement Annual report and accounts 2012 13 from Bill Halbert, Executive Chairman Further progress in improving the quality andlong-term sustainability of the business In summary Continued strong performance in KC Key customer wins show the strengthening competitive position intarget markets Disciplined financial management gives the Group a positive outlook Commitment to 10 per cent per annum dividend increase through to 2016 Investing in support of longer term goals 10 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
indd 10 6 20 2013 11:14:58 AM Directors report Business review KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Our Board continues to place great importance on having appropriate governance in place and during the year we have complied with all but one of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Dear Shareholder As always, the value of such surveys is to in my role, which I am delighted to do.
Further Last financial year marked another stage in the identify those areas where there is opportunity information on the rationale for combining the transformation of the KCOM Group.
Weremain to make even greater progress and over the role is on page 36. committed to investing in the four pillars that coming year, we will be investing further in the support our strategic vision.
Over the year we area of individual personal development.
We continue to have an extremely effective worked hard to complete programmes of activity Board at KCOM Group, with strong, experienced within each area.
Leveraging our partnerships and diverse Non-Executive Directors and Partnerships remain a key part of our strategy, anopen culture which encourages debate As a result, we have seen clear progress in giving us the right scale and breadth of service andchallenge.
This once again was strengthening our competitive position across offering that our customers want.
We are highlighted as a key strength in our annual each of our fourbrands.
working hard to make sure all our partners Board evaluation process.
Further information understand our strategy and values, as they on how the Board operates can be found on We have continued the programme of developing play an important part in us achieving our Corporate Governance pages.
and investing in our people, laying the foundations collective success.
for strategic IT change, to deliver scalability Outlook andefficiency and deepening our partner Processes and systems investment We remain focused on executing our strategy relationships, all with the aim of supporting Over the course of the next two years, we will be for market leadership and profitable growth our first strategic pillar, customerfocus.
investing in back-office systems and processes across each of our brands, creating opportunities that will enable more collaboration and to provide more value-added services across Customer focus consistency across the Group.
This will be underpinned by In KC, we continue to see demand for our will provide also flexibility and scalability of continued investment in those areas that bundled broadband and talk packages.
ourprocesses, which are key to our profitable support scalable and efficient delivery of service Wehave seen also strong take-up of our growth ambitions.
Following thesuccessful completion of the initial fibre The four investment pillars, andthestrategic Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like deployment to 15,000 premises in the Hull and vision they support, willbefundamental in tothank everyone across the Group for their East Yorkshire region, we have started the second delivering Group success and long-term commitment and passion during a year that, phase which will bring the total premises passed sustainability.
We remain focused on whilst being undoubtedly challenging, marks in the region to 45,000 by March 2015. executing thestrategywe set out at the afurther successful step in the overall start of our transformation programme.
Across our Kcom reporting segment, wecontinue to win market share and have Final dividend and future policy signed new and extended contracts with The Board is proposing a final dividend of customers including the Association of Train 2.97pence per share 2012: 2.67 pence per share.
Bill Halbert Operating Companies, Phones4U, The Link In addition, due to the cash-generative nature Executive Chairman Consortium and Morrisons.
Post year-end, we of the Group, the Board is pleased to confirm 18 June 2013 signed a significant five-year managed services its commitment to continuing to deliver a contract with National Farmers Union Mutual, 10per cent increase in dividends each year one of our largest managed services contracts to2016, underlining its confidence and to date.
Developing our people In March, we undertook an all-employee survey Board update as a sense check on the progress we have made Our Board continues to place great importance since the last survey in 2011. on having appropriate governance in place and during the year we have complied with all It is pleasing to see an increase in the overall butone of the provisions of the UK Corporate employee satisfaction measure, along with Governance Code.
The area of non-compliance other important measures of improvement in is in relation to my role as both Chairman and cross Group collaboration, communication and Chief Executive.
Once again this has been kept a deeper understanding of our strategy and under review by our Nomination Committee and aims as a Group.
I have been asked for the moment to continue 11 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
