Strategic report Chairmans I am pleased to report a statement year of further improvement in terms of our financial results and the progress made against our strategic objectives.
1 Financial results All four divisions improved their operating Group revenue rose by 9% to 1,438.2m margin, resulting in a significant increase in 2012: 1,317.5m.
Stripping out the effects the Group operating margin from 3.7% in of acquisitions and foreign exchange 2012 to 5.4%.
This marks further progress movements, the Groups revenue was up in raising the margin towards our throughby 2%.
The operating profit increased to the-cycle target of 6.5%.
The margin uplift 77.8m, compared with 48.3m in the reflects a sharp focus on continuous previous year.
Profit before tax increased to improvement in many aspects of the 74.1m 2012: 43.5m and earnings per business, as well as an excellent share were 73.0p 2012: 45.9p.
performance on several major projects and improving conditions in certain of Roy Franklin our markets.
Chairman 73.0p earnings per share 02 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 Cash flow and net debt Strategy Board Cash generated from operations was In 2013, we made good progress against Gerry Brown and Bob Rubright served on 132.0m, representing 106% of EBITDA.
our strategy to extend further our global the Board until 23 May 2013.
David Savage Cash generated was significantly up on last leadership in specialist ground engineering stood down on 3 October 2013, creating a years 108.4m 118% of EBITDA, as a through both organic growth and targeted vacancy on the Board for a Non-executive result of the Groups improved profitability acquisitions with the completion of three Director.
We thank all three for their and the relentless focus across the business strategic acquisitions in attractive markets.
We commenced an externally on maximising cash generation.
facilitated search in November 2013, which Our January acquisition of Geois progressing positively and we will report Year-end net debt was 143.7m 2012: Foundations, a small geotechnical business on the outcome in due course.
The based in Toronto, was followed by a increase is due to our investment in the second, much larger Canadian acquisition Outlook year in acquisitions totalling 200.4m in July.
The addition to the Group of Keller Looking ahead, we expect to see a 2012: nil, partly offset by 57.6m of net Canada, for an initial consideration of continuation of the gradual improvement proceeds from the placing of 6.6m shares 151m, increases the Groups exposure to in certain of our markets, notably in the US.
in connection with our acquisition of North the North American energy and resources However, most of our European markets American Piling, since re-branded as Keller sector, including the Alberta oil sands are expected to remain subdued and we Canada, which completed in July 2013. segment.
It also provides the opportunity anticipate that the current uncertain market to develop broader customer relationships conditions in Australia will continue for Net capital expenditure of 42.6m 2012: and to expand the Groups presence in the some time.
32.7m was in line with depreciation.
relatively under-developed Canadian geotechnical segment.
Through this For the Group as a whole, contract awards The financial position of the Group remains acquisition, we have secured a leading remain at a healthy level and, accordingly, very strong.
There is comfortable headroom position in this key target market and the value of the like-for-like order book at in the Groups main financing facilities and consolidated our position as the clear the end of January 2014, for work to be we continue to operate well within all of our market leader in North America.
executed over the following 12 months, financial covenants.
was 6% higher than at the previous January.
In November, we acquired Esorfranki Geotechnical, the largest ground In 2014, our focus will be on continuing to Dividends In light of these improved results and the engineering business in South Africa, for an drive margin improvement in our established initial consideration of 31m.
The business, businesses, together with delivering value Boards confidence in the Groups prospects, the Board has decided to since re-branded as Franki Africa, offers from our recent acquisitions and achieving design and build services to the mining, the synergies between them and other parts recommend a final dividend of 16.0p per share 2012: 15.2p per share, to be paid civil engineering and construction industries of the Group.
We have made good progress and has a strong track record of executing in integrating the acquisitions and their on 13 June 2014 to shareholders on the register at 6 June 2014.
Together with the projects in other Sub-Saharan African full-year 2014 contribution is forecast to countries, which accounted for around half be in line with our expectations at the time interim dividend paid of 8.0p, this brings the total dividend per share for the year to of its revenue in recent years.
Dividend cover for the full year was 3.0x These acquisitions, together with our Overall, we expect 2014 to be another year success in winning work by offering of progress, despite the adverse impact of 2012: 2.0x.
value-engineered solutions and a foreign exchange movements and the continuation of our business improvement extreme weather conditions in North initiatives, now embedded in our day-to-day America in the first two months of the year.
operations, have all combined to strengthen the Groups global leadership position.
Looking further ahead, we remain optimistic about our long-term prospects and we are Employees confident that the Group is well positioned We could not have accomplished so much to take full advantage of future in the year without the hard work of our opportunities.
The Board and the Executive Committee truly appreciate the care and skill with which colleagues approach their work and, in particular, their contribution towards our safety improvement efforts.
We will continue to strive to create an 1 2013 results stated before exceptional items of 22.1m, before tax.
These are non-trading items relating environment in which our employees can to acquisitions and comprise 6.7m of amortisation of thrive and feel proud to work.
acquired intangible assets: 5.9m of acquisition costs: 6.0m of contingent consideration and payments: 3.1m of goodwill impairments: and 0.4m of exceptional finance costs.
to find out more please visit 2 Net debt represents total loans and borrowings less our website www.
co. uk cash and short-term deposits.
