Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 04 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OVERVIEW Our diversified business model, strong Kentz has continued to make greatprogress during 2013.
We have client relationships and dedicated delivered another year of double workforce ensure that the outlook for digit earnings growth due to a good balance of new business and natural our global operations remains positive.
growth, which is very encouraging given the uncertainty that abounds in our sector.
Our diversified business model, our broad service offering and diverse geographical spread continued to deliver growth for our business.
These elements, coupled with strong client relationships and dedicated workforce, ensure that the outlook for our global operations is positive.
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Many people in the investment community are posing the question of what impact the reduction in capital investment by the large global oil and gas companies is having on our business.
Although wemonitor what is going on in the macro-economic environment and the spending plans of our larger clients, we place a greater emphasis on the specific opportunities that exist for our services and whether these opportunities are continuing to exist and even grow.
The 18% growth in our pipeline of prospects and 19% growth in backlog in 2013 demonstrates the growing level of opportunities that exist for our business and provides confidence for 2014 and beyond.
We have achieved improved business winning in Australasia, Middle East and Africa WE ARE COMMITTED TO CREATING which has contributed greatly to the considerable growth in our backlog.
SHAREHOLDER VALUE BY PROVIDING AHIGH QUALITY SERVICE OFFERING Figures stated before exceptional items amounting to US$8.3m.
TAN SRI MOHD RAZALI ABDUL RAHMAN CHAIRMAN GOVERNANCE AT KENTZ IN 2013 The Kentz Board is committed to upholding the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration andShareholder Relations.
Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 05 STRATEGY and approved by the Board in 2012, of the Board, I would like to thank Ed Last year, we identified six strategic was the broadening of our ability to for his commitment and hard work priorities to strengthen the Company provide EPC services for mediumover the past 23 years and wish him and position it for the longer-term.
The a very long and happy retirement.
We remain committed to developing transaction received overwhelming our core markets in the Middle East support from shareholders and the I am pleased to introduce Meg and Australia, whilst simultaneously acquisition completed on the Lassarat who will succeed Ed as focusing on broadening our value 3 January 2014.
I would like to CFO upon his retirement.
Meg has adding specialist capabilities and welcome the Valerus staff to the over 20 years of global financial seeking to leverage our capabilities Kentz Group and look forward to experience and has been across a growing operational their continued success.
The Board instrumental in driving growth, footprint.
I am pleased to say that we isconfident the acquisition of identifying strategic alternatives have made great strides in executing Valerus will provide significant anddelivering positive bottom-line these initiatives, but we remain very strategic, operational and financial results in her career to date.
Prior conscious that we still have a lot of benefits to the Group.
tojoining Kentz, Meg was CFO of ground to cover.
Having been a UniversalPegasus International, a significant shareholder of Kentz PEOPLE professional engineering and field since 1994, I have seen the Company services organisation and also As a people-based business that transformed from a small private spent eight years as CFO of operates in many of the worlds most company to a significant player in oil Mustang Engineering, part of remote and challenging locations, the and gas services.
The addition of theWood Group.
importance of recruiting, managing, Valerus provides a great grounding developing and retaining our team for further expansion of our services.
OUTLOOK isan important factor in continuing The Board is confident in the Groups todeliver services for clients and I am in a very fortunate position strategy and we are encouraged that sustaining the Companys growth.
asChairman of a strong growing our strong workforce worldwide is With the addition of Valerus to the company that continues to make adapting well to the changes that its Group, we now have approximately great achievements year after year.
14,500 employees who provide Reports of improvements in the complex solutions for our clients and global economy and an outlook for ACQUISITION OF VALERUS help operate a global organisation 2014 better than any since 2007 are FIELD SOLUTIONS across the 36 countries in which we encouraging but we must remember In December, we announced the operate.
On behalf of the Board, I not to be complacent.
Kentz is a proposed acquisition of Valerus Field would like to thank all of our staff service provider and our important Solutions Valerus for US$435m.
members for their hard work during clients depend on us to continually Valerus is a US-based integrated 2013 and for their continued deliver for them.
As an organisation oiland gas surface facility solutions commitment to Kentz.
we are committed to creating provider which provides a full suite shareholder value by providing a ofproducts and services from the At the next Annual General Meeting high-quality service in a safe manner.
well-head to the pipeline as well as in May 2014, Ed Power will not seek The Board of Kentz is confident that an integrated services capability.
re-election to the Board and will the Group will continue to deliver Valerus focuses on adding value retire as Executive Director and Chief value for all our stakeholders as we through front end and conceptual Financial Officer CFO.
Ed has been continue to broaden our offering.
design, with an emphasis on turnkey with Kentz since 1990 and has capability and delivering projects played a pivotal role in developing quickly and efficiently.
A key part of Kentz into the strong respected Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman our strategy, which was developed company that it is today.
On behalf Chairman NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE RISK REVIEW COMMITTEE TAN SRI MOHD RAZALI BRENDAN LYONS DAVID BELDOTTI DAVID BELDOTTI ABDUL RAHMAN Kentzs approach to executive The Committee focused on We are committed to remuneration is to encourage, delivering a more strategic ensuringcontinued Diversity remains a key reinforce and reward delivery Audit Committee Report, implementation of risk principle in determining the of sustainable shareholder addressing the material management systems in appropriate balance for the value something we believe reporting developments in the spiteof record bidding skills and experience of the has helped drive our year.
Maintaining strict levels of activityacross our global Board.
accountability continue to business units.
Committee addressed the drive process developments recommendations of the Notwithstanding our Jersey and underpin the continued Davies Report.
incorporation, the Group success of the Group.
willpresent a remuneration policy that will be subject to a shareholder vote at the AGM.
For more on our governance, For more information, please visit: see pages 5285 www.
