Overview Chairmans statement The Group delivered a resilient cash performance, despite the challenging working capital environment Phil White I am pleased to report a solid set of Taking into account the performance Chairman results for Kier Group plc Kier for the of the Group, its strengthened capital year ended 30 June 2013.
Underlying structure and continuing the Groups profit before tax of 63.4m 2012: progressive dividend policy, the Board 70.0m and earnings per share of proposes to increase the total dividend 136.2p 2012: 156.8p were in line for the year by 3% to 68p 2012: 66p, with our expectations.
which is well covered by underlying earnings per share and reflects the The Group delivered a resilient cash Boards confidence in the business.
performance, despite the challenging The final dividend of 46.5p will be paid working capital environment.
Average on 27 November 2013 to shareholders Group month-end net debt was 4m on the register at close of business on 2012: average month-end net cash of 20 September 2013.
There will be a 95m as a result of the timing of our scrip dividend alternative.
property transactions some of which completed in the last quarter of the financial year and after investment during the year of 77m, mainly in our Property and Construction businesses.
This produced a Group net cash position at 30 June 2013 of 60m 2012: 129m.
U nderlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights of 3.4m 2012: 3.4m and exceptional items totalling 17.0m 2012: 3.6m.
04 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Board changes The role of our committees During the year, the Board undertook a review of the management structure of Board of Directors the Group, following which a decision The Board is responsible to shareholders for the success of the Company.
The Board was taken to introduce the role of chief develops the Groups strategy, monitors and reviews its business performance and operating officer COO to strengthen controls risk.
The Board has put in place reporting processes and other controls which and integrate Kiers operating are designed to ensure that it is provided with relevant information on a timely basis, processes across the enlarged Group which set authorisation limits and which reserve certain significant matters for the Board and ensure that they are implemented or its committees.
in a cohesive and consistent way.
Steve Bowcott was appointed to Risk Management and Audit Committee Remuneration Committee this role and is responsible for Chair Richard Bailey Chair Chris Geoghegan the operational efficiency of both The Risk Management and Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the Construction and the Services comprises the non-executive directors.
In addition to his current Richard Bailey, a chartered accountant with Geoghegan is the chairman of the responsibilities, Haydn Mursell, the recent and relevant financial experience, committee.
The committee makes Group finance director, has assumed is the chairman of the committee.
The recommendations to the Board on the operational responsibility for the committee is responsible for monitoring and Companys framework of executive Property division.
As a result of these reviewing the Groups internal audit function.
remuneration and determines, on its The director responsible for internal audit behalf, specific remuneration packages changes Ian Lawson retired as a meets the chairman of the committee for each of the executive directors.
director from the Board in June.
to discuss the function and the Groups In doing so, it takes the advice of I am confident that the introduction internal controls.
The committee is also independent external consultants.
of the COO role, together with clearly responsible for monitoring and reviewing the defined roles and responsibilities for performance, independence and objectivity of KPMG, the external auditor.
each of the executive management team, will enable the business to continue to deliver a strong trading Nomination Committee Safety, Health and Environment performance.
Committee SHE Committee Chair Amanda Mellor Outlook Chair Nick Winser The Nomination Committee comprises We have secured a number of the Groups non-executive directors.
The SHE Committee comprises Nick significant contract wins across all Amanda Mellor is the chair of the Winser and Amanda Mellor, although the of our businesses which means that committee.
The committee is responsible executive directors of the Group and the for monitoring the composition and balance health and safety director are invited, we have begun the 2014 financial of the Board, making recommendations to and expected, to attend meetings, unless year in a good position, with all of the the Board on new Board appointments and they are notified to the contrary.
The Construction divisions targeted revenue succession planning.
committee is responsible for assisting and 95% of the Services divisions the Board with respect to reviewing i the targeted revenue currently secured Groups strategy with respect to safety, and probable.
health and environmental SHE matters, ii the Groups exposure to SHE risks and Having completed the acquisition of iii Group-wide SHE initiatives, policies May Gurney in July, our combined order and procedures and monitoring the book now stands at 5.9bn across Groups performance against SHE targets.
those divisions and stretches well beyond 2020.
In addition, the Property division has a pipeline of 1.5bn and will be a key contributor to the Group results in the coming years.
The comprehensive review of our business that we started earlier in the year is substantially complete and our attention remains focused on the successful integration of May Gurney.
This comes at a time when the macroeconomic outlook is beginning to improve in all our markets, positioning the Group for growth.
