4 BUSINESS REVIEW Chairmans statement Key highlights It has been a challenging year for We have also continued to make good Kingfisher, but I am pleased to report that progress on our sustainability agenda, we finished the year in good shape, with with the launch in October of our Net 715m a strong balance sheet, higher market Positive plan.
You can read more share in Europe and with our medium about Net Positive on page 16.
Adjusted pre-tax profit term programme of self-help initiatives I would like to welcome two new directors Creating the Leader progressing well.
who joined the Board in October.
Karen Our reported results were affected by Witts joined as Group Finance Director 691m adverse currency movements, and the and brings with her a wealth of financial particularly poor summer weather in and operational management experience Pre-tax profit Northern Europe literally dampened from her previous roles at Vodafone and customer demand during our peak BT, among others.
Add to this the economic highly experienced retailer, who is uncertainty our customers are facing responsible for our Castorama and Brico 22.3p across Europe and it is no surprise that Dpt brands across Europe, also joined 2012 was difficult for retailers in general.
Euan Sutherland stepped Adjusted basic EPS down from the Board in January to take But our teams have worked hard, actively up a CEO role outside the Group and we managing the business, focusing on wish him well in his new position.
improving our customer offer and 24.1p optimising our cash generation in these I would like to thank our 78,000 staff for difficult markets.
These are the right their hard work and commitment during Basic EPS things to do to ensure we can deliver these difficult economic times.
They have value for shareholders over the medium done an excellent job providing the level term.
We achieved growth in France, our of service which customers expect and most significant market, and continued to ensuring that we start the new year 9.46p expand in Poland, Russia, Turkey and with confidence.
Whilst B&Q found the UK consumer market difficult, our trade Daniel Bernard businesses in the UK, Screwfix and Chairman TradePoint, grew strongly.
We remain confident in our future prospects and it is for this reason that we are proposing to raise the dividend by 7.0% despite adjusted pre-tax profits being down 11.4% to 715m.
OUR TEAMS HAVE WORKED HARD, ACTIVELY MANAGING THE BUSINESS, FOCUSING ON IMPROVING OUR CUSTOMER OFFER AND OPTIMISING OUR CASH GENERATION IN THESE DIFFICULT MARKETS.
Daniel Bernard Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
