Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Chairmans statement Ladbrokes continues on its journey to modernise the business.
While we are disappointed that the financial results do notreflect the progress we are making, thestrategy is the right one.
Dear Shareholder Board focus As you would expect, there are no bonuses 2013 has been a difficult year where our As you would expect the Board has had much orpay rises for our management team business has taken significant strides in key to consider in the year.
We took time to ensure associated with this years financial areas but failed to deliver the financial results that the major deals such as with Playtech, performance.
However, under the long-term that we expected.
thepurchase of Betdaq and the entry into the incentives there are some payments.
One of Australian market were executed as effectively our key tasks is to ensure we have the right From this viewpoint it has been disappointing and efficiently as possible.
We also took time team and the right incentives in place for and one where we accept that shareholders toconsider the future of the international thebusiness.
Three years ago we revamped patience has been tested.
The numbers for business as overseas markets open up or the incentive scheme for our mostsenior 1 theyear are stark, operating profit down deregulate.
Closer to home we reviewed managers to reflect a business which required 32.9% to 138.3million and earnings per thecurrent regulatory agenda and what a turnaround strategy to be delivered, whilst 1 share down36.4% to 11.7 pence.
opportunities and threats are posed to the operating in a highly competitive market.
The betting and gaming sector Theaimwas to incentivise managers to deliver However as a Board, we have had to look isconstantly changing, technology is driving the turnaround and create shareholder value.
beyond the bare numbers and distinguish change and politicians are having to react.
Wechose to measure it in the most tangible between those that reflect the vagaries of way, through share price performance.
bookmaking and those that are a consequence We do not seek special treatment at the hands of the journey this business is still on.
We must of the regulators but we do want a fair race.
The payment under the Ladbrokes Growth not lose sight of the task set by the Board, to Weare clear that the actions we take today Plan is because the shareprice did meet create a more competitive and sustainable inyour interests must also be ones which we thecriteria of passing the2mark for over business in a rapidly evolving market.
Naturally can sustain over a longer time period.
We have 30consecutive days seethe Directors we have to accept that against such a backdrop, challenged the business to look at key areas remuneration report.
Attheyear end the difficult but necessary big decisions create such as responsible gambling and community share price had not sustained this growth and short-term pain for longer term benefits.
involvement to see if there is more we should was not where wewould like it to be.
It is pleasing to report that the have made progress against the original task, Evolving markets business is responding.
From the Boardroom to build a stronger more competitive and We are under no illusion about the situation tothe shop floor we aim to put responsible sustainable business fit to compete in a rapidly weare in.
Our markets continue to evolve, gambling at the heart of the business.
It is the changing environment, and that in some of the mobile technology continues to drive right thing to do on every level not least because actions still being implemented, there are consumer behaviour and the strength of the as an industry leader we must not be afraid further benefits to come.
Digital offer continues to become ever more tolead by example.
Thats why we are giving important.
That is why it is in Digital that we Outlook for 2014 iteven greater prominence as a Board and see the mostopportunity for shareholders.
Looking ahead the Board is clear that 2014 introducing it into executive remuneration Itiswhy the deal with Playtech to bring their presents both challenge and opportunity.
Bookmakers have to be a part of the product, expertise and customer relationship OurDigital team has to deliver some key fabric of the community, the future sustainability management to our Digital business is so infrastructure milestones to be able to deliver of the business is in providing people with important.
In partnering with a proven market fully the benefits of the Playtech deal.
asafe and responsible environment in which leading expert, we are clear that long-term Retailhas a challenge to drive the benefits tofollow a leisure pursuit.
shareholder value is being created.
However, from the recent investments in the estate to the deal was not without implications, most Right team keep its offer not only relevant but attractive notably in the short-term performance of our On the Board, John Jarvis announced his tocustomers.
There are plans to address all Digital business as the painful, but necessary, intention to stand down as a non-executive ofthese and for us the second half of the year steps were taken to ensure the new operations director.
We would like to thank John for his after the Football World Cup will be key.
The could be established and duplication removed.
hard work and thoughtful contributions.
In Board has confidence in the direction of the seeking to replace John we wanted someone business but is conscious of the need for In hindsight, perhaps there was too much with experience of UK and international shareholders to see the sustainable benefits optimism in how fast and how much could business to assist our thinking as we seek to ofthe changes being made.
beachieved but we passionately believe grow our footprint internationally.
David Martin thedeal with Playtech is a game changer who joined in October has such experience forLadbrokes and shareholders.
and complements the skills we have across There remains much to do but in committing the Boardroom table, with digital, retail, betting, to keep the dividend to at least 8.9 pence per gaming, international operations and brand share for 2014, we are giving you a management all healthily represented.
Peter Erskine demonstrable sign that we are confident in the Chairman Companys ability to deliver over the next year.
1 Profit before tax, net finance expense, exceptional items and excluding High Rollers.
2 Strategic report #1 The new Mobile offer reached number one inthe sports category in the Apple App store.
Simpler navigation to help customers get to the heart of the action.
Push capability Relevant and timely offers sent direct to the customer to keep them up-to-speed with where the best value in the market is.
3 History of our launch We launched our new mobile offer on the proven Mobenga platform in December toan encouraging customer response.
Mobile Easy to use bet Our new Mobile offer slip allowing is available on iPhone Mobile gambling is the fastest customers to get their andAndroid, and m. Site bet on quickly and with growing area of digital gambling makes us accessible minimum fuss.
in the UK, accounting for 4% through all other mobile devices.
Unsurprisingly, the busiest time for downloading of the App isjust before kick-off of any big games or on a Saturday around midday.
Live streaming So customers can get the buzz of seeing how their bet is progressing.
