Chairmans statement Results There was little change in underlying profits year on year, but after a softer first half we delivered a much stronger second half of the year and exited 2013 with good momentum.
Board changes We have made further changes to refresh the Laird Board in 2013.
Jack Boyer joined the Board in May.
After serving nine years as a non-executive director, Tony Reading retired in August.
Tony was succeeded by Jack as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Following Tonys departure, Paula Bell was appointed Senior Independent Director.
I would like to thank Tony for his service.
In November we also announced that I would be stepping down as Chairman at the Annual General Meeting in May this year and will be succeeded by Dr Martin Read.
Martin will join the Laird Board on 28 February and I am very much looking forward to working with him for the remaining few months to ensure a smooth handover.
Strategic progress I have served as Chairman for over ten years a period of In 2013 we have made much strategic progress throughout the considerable change at Laird.
More recently I have overseen whole organisation.
Under the leadership of David Lockwood, the transition of the Laird Board, including the appointment of Laird teams have been focusing on the technology development David Lockwood as Chief Executive in 2012.
I have no doubt and innovation they can provide to our customers, delivered under Davids leadership that I am leaving the Company in through best in class manufacturing and through consistent good hands and it is an exciting time for all of our stakeholders.
levels of speed in delivery.
This progress is reflective of the way I would like to give personal thanks to everyone I have worked the whole company has acknowledged, and been motivated with over the years as Chairman and as a non-executive director by, our strategy to create and capture value to our customers prior to that.
through our strategic differentiation in target identified growth markets, together with technology development through Dividends increased investment in R&D.
The Board has declared a 2013 final year dividend of 7.9p Our governance programme ensures operational activity is per share 2012, 6.6p, resulting in a total full year dividend of reviewed and measured to help chart our progress as a business, 12.0p 2012, 10.0p, in line with the Boards recommendation whilst staying focused on our strategic objectives.
Corporate Governance section on page 56 for more information.
The Boards future dividend policy is to increase returns to shareholders over time, while taking account of both the Employees underlying profitability and cash requirements of the business.
Our employees are Lairds best assets.
As I have travelled round the business this year I have consistently seen how committed Outlook they are to developing innovation opportunities for new Trading in 2014 has started as expected.
They have also been encouraged by working together revenue to be second half weighted.
Executing well on our more collaboratively under the One Laird brand to deliver strategy underpins our confidence for growth in the year.
solutions to our customers, whilst continuing to provide the high levels of service for which Laird is known.
Nigel Keen There have been a number of strategic changes to Lairds Chairman culture this year, such as increased collaboration between 27 February 2014 business units.
To manage these changes, whilst staying committed to our customers, is testament to our employees dedication and is what will help us bring further good results and I would like to thank everyone for their efforts throughout the year.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
