Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Chairmans Letter f Performance Highlights f 2013 Change Initiatives Letter from Roger Phillimore Dear Fellow Shareholder, The past year has been one of progress for your Company, marked by restored financial stability, impressive operational performance, continued achievements in safety and changes at senior management level which position us well to make further progress in the performance and standing of Lonmin.
I would like to start by offering my thanks to all of you who supported our Rights Issue at the beginning of our financial year.
Almost 97% of shareholders took up their rights and this, combined with the support of our banks in agreeing new loan facilities, placed Lonmin on a solid and disciplined financial footing for the future.
It has been a turbulent year in terms of the social and political environment in which we operate.
From that turbulence has come welcome direction from the Government of the Republic of South Africa which has become more involved in the issues which affect us, particularly labour matters, as it has become clear that these are key not just in mining but across the countrys economy.
I believe the Government recognises that business alone cannot deal with many of the socio-economic issues driving these changes, and that the nations economic future rests on dealing with them.
Lonmin has a major role to play in improving the lives of its employees and the communities around its operations and will act with determination as both catalyst and contributor to achieve this.
Whilst Lonmin has made positive strides this year, it has done so against the background of an economic environment which continues to be tough.
Prices have not recovered, the Rand Dollar exchange rate is volatile and we have seen renewed challenges with organised labour as the face of union representation changes across the platinum industry in South Africa.
Our response to these changes is centred on our belief that employee relations and issues of sustainability and transformation are as key to our success as those around mining, processing and marketing.
At the Annual General Meeting earlier this year your Board laid out five key initiatives in this area, shown in a diagram on the previous page.
You can read more about progress in these areas throughout the Performance section of this report.
Alongside this some of our major commitments to Black Economic Empowerment BEE and the Mining Charter must be fulfilled in the year ahead and your Company is working hard with stakeholders to complete its obligations here.
Our approach and proposals to achieve 26% BEE ownership may need to be put to you, our shareholders, for approval in the course of the year.
Progress is being made in rebuilding relationships with our employees.
Some of you will have seen the moving pictures of the Sixteen-Eight Memorial event held at Marikana in August.
This was an emotional day but also one full of hope, and commendably conducted by everyone involved in a spirit of remembrance and peace.
It gave all who experienced it hope for the future.
That confidence in the future all stems from our performance as a business this year.
You will see solid numbers throughout our Annual Report and Accounts this year on mining, processing and sales which, combined with our strategic vision for the coming years, bode well for creating shareholder and stakeholder value.
Whilst the year ahead will still remain challenging, particularly around labour dynamics, our steady progress in 2013 allows us to remain cautiously confident about the medium-term.
Success will require us to achieve considerable improvement in the efficiency of production.
With constant vigilance on cash flow and the strength of the balance sheet, capital expenditures will be prioritised to offer attractive, robust returns and be affordable.
com Impressive operational performance gives us confidence for the future of this business.
In management we welcomed Ben Magara to Lonmin in July as our new CEO.
Bens experience, energy and passion for Lonmin is already producing results, and he has brought fresh perspectives, skills and vision to bear.
Simon Scott returns to his core role as CFO, having given outstanding service as Acting CEO during a difficult 2013, and I know you will join me in thanking him for all he has done.
Our previous permanent CEO, Ian Farmer, fell ill during August of last year.
I am pleased to tell you that Ian has made good progress with his recovery.
I know all our shareholders would wish to send their best wishes to Ian, who gave more than 26 years service to this Company before he stepped down as a Director in December 2012.
A dividend is not proposed for the current financial year.
However, Lonmin has confidence in the future demand for PGMs and our expectation is for prices to firm in the future.
Our Renewal Plan anticipates positive free cash flow from the 2014 financial year onwards.
The return to stronger earnings and cash flows will permit the resumption of dividends.
When we do resume the payment of dividends, we intend to follow the existing policy of declaring an ordinary final dividend at a rate which the Board expects can at least be maintained in subsequent years.
Given the performance of the business this year, which is especially impressive given the situation in which we started the year being reported on here, I would also like to offer my thanks to our Executive Committee, management and employees.
Lonmin has come from a difficult place, and through a terrible tragedy, and it is the determination of all our employees to help get the business so successfully back on track which allows us to look forward with more confidence to the year ahead.
We have also significantly strengthened your Board this year, with the addition of two new Non-executive Directors, Gary Nagle and Paul Smith, from our largest shareholder Glencore Xstrata.
We also welcome Brian Beamish, who joins us as an Independent Non-executive Director and Phuti Mahanyele who replaces Cyril Ramaposa as Shandukas representative on the Board.
At the forthcoming AGM we will bid farewell to two Non-executive Directors, who have chosen not to offer themselves for re-election.
David Munro joined the Board in August 2007 and his technical understanding and experience, always conveyed with an engaging directness, have been an invaluable resource to the Board.
Mahomed Seedat served as your Companys COO before retiring from his executive career, joining the Board as a Non-executive Director in January 2011.
During the crisis of August 2012 he re-joined the Executive Committee and provided excellent and stalwart support to management and the Board, and continued to fulfil this vital role until 30 September 2013.
They leave with our heartfelt thanks and best wishes.
In November 2013 I informed the Board that I intended to retire.
I joined the Company in September 1997 when Lonmin was emerging from the remnants of the Lonrho Group.
I became Chairman on an interim basis in November 2008 and took the role on a permanent basis in March 2009.
After five years as Chairman, and leading the Board through some of the most challenging years in the Companys long history, I feel that the time is right to pass on the mantle.
We have an energetic and capable new CEO who has already re-examined our strategy, an invigorated management team to support him and I believe Lonmin will benefit from the fresh perspective of a new Chairman.
The Nomination Committee has begun the search for a new Chairman and although I will seek re-election at the AGM to provide continuity, I will step down from the Board immediately that individual has been appointed.
Yours faithfully Roger Phillimore Chairman 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Performance Highlights 2013 Change Initiatives Chairmans Letter 01 Contents 01 Strategic Report 04 An Interview with the Chief Executive Officer 06 Our Business Model 08 Our Strategy 18 Market Review 20 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 24 Key Performance Indicators 27 Performance 36 Board of Directors 38 Executive Committee 02 Governance 42 Corporate Governance Report 57 Audit & Risk Committee Report 65 Directors Report 70 Directors Remuneration Report 03 Financial Statements 102 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc only 105 Responsibility Statement of the Directors in Respect of the Annual Report and Accounts 106 Consolidated Income Statement 106 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 107 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 108 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 109 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 110 Notes to the Accounts 147 Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet 148 Notes to the Company Accounts 155 Consolidated Group Five Year Financial Record 04 A Deeper Look 158 Safety Performance 159 Operational Review 165 Financial Review 170 Operating Statistics 5 Year Review 175 Reserves & Resources 05 Shareholder Information 180 Shareholder Information 182 Corporate Information 182 Financial Calendar 183 Acronyms and Abbreviations 184 Sixteen Eight Memorial Trust ibc Lonmin Charter www.
com Working for a Sustainable Future We aim to be the safest primary producer of PGMs and to minimise our adverse environmental impact.
Our safety aim is zero harm.
Some of our shafts remain industry leaders.
The 4B 1B shaft won the prestigious JT Ryan trophy this year as South Africans safest shaft of its type.
Established mines in the worlds premier PGM deposit with a long-life mineral resource.
Significant inherent value in the existing infrastructure and the underground ore reserves that we have developed ready for mining.
Developing industry leading processing and refining techniques.
