STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT SAFETY INDUSTRY BACKDROP I have long admired the commitment of our people at Anglo American and the considerable changes they have In 2013, the world economy experienced a flat implemented to help us achieve zero harm across the entire growth rate of 3%, the same as in 2012.
I am therefore personally saddened when I am told of our people losing their lives at our operations.
In 2013, led to weak activity in the first six months of 14 people lost their lives on company business, four of whom died following a major geological event at the the year in Western Europe, China and other now-divested Amap iron ore operation in Brazil, with a emerging economies.
With a rigorous eye on the progress to zero harm, a further decline in lost-time injuries was achieved, while the great majority of our sites remain fatalitySir John Parker free.
I speak for the whole Board in expressing our sympathy for those who have been bereaved and I wish to reassure all our stakeholders that we will strive unremittingly to achieve our goal of an incident-free workplace.
CAPITAL PROJECTS As we enter 2014, the Minas-Rio iron ore project is now 84% complete and, while risk remains in such a vast project, I am pleased to report that it remains on target for first ore The global mining industry encountered considerable on ship at the end of 2014, and within the expected capital challenges, and for much of the year it experienced budget.
Its completion will ease our capital commitments lacklustre demand and falling prices for most commodities from 2015 onwards and should also enhance our free cash exacerbated by persistent above-inflation cost pressures, flow.
The Board continues to exercise discipline and scrutiny labour disputes and low productivity.
of costs around capital expenditures be it stay in business or expansionary.
ANGLO AMERICANS STRATEGIC RESPONSE The Board has Against this backdrop, Anglo American faced its share of DIVIDEND recommended operational challenges as we continued to restructure our a final dividend The focus on increasing free cash flow from operational Platinum business, pursue the turnarounds of copper in of 53 cents efficiency and cash-saving initiatives is a measure of Chile, the Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa and the per share, to the Boards determination to protect our dividend to flagship Jwaneng diamond mine in Botswana.
A recovery maintain a shareholders until higher sustainable free cash flow plan was also put in place at Nickel following the need to dividend of is generated.
rebuild the two new furnaces at Barro Alto.
85 cents for The Board has recommended a final dividend of 53 cents the year.
April saw a smooth and professional transition from per share, to maintain a total dividend of 85 cents for the CynthiaCarroll to Mark Cutifani as our new chief executive.
That we were able to do so during a period when Since that time, Mark and his new top management team substantial expenditure was being incurred on major capital have worked closely with our Board in finalising an agreed projects underlines our confidence in the business and its Group strategy and clear targets Driving Value.
At its ability to keep returns to our shareholders competitive with heart we aim to shift the Group to achieve at least a 15% those of our peer group.
attributable return on capital employed by 2016, and place it on a sounder footing to deliver sustainable returns into the future.
It will involve cost reductions on a range of fronts, A COMPANY THAT LIVES OUT ITS VALUES controlled expenditure on our pipeline of new projects, One of the things that attracted me to Anglo American withdrawing from some longer-term future projects as we some 4 years ago was that it was known as a company have done with Pebble in Alaska, and being ready to exit that has always had a social conscience, which endeavours those businesses that cannot achieve the target returns.
Within the ranks of natural resource Mark, as the industry recognises, is a miners miner who companies, Anglo American has invariably been at the brings his decades-long experience of mining at the sharp forefront in engaging with stakeholders and with civil society end with a relentless focus on improving the operational more broadly.
performance of all our assets, while also redesigning the organisation to be more effective and efficient.
The Board is heartened by the improving trend in operational performance during the second half, which has contributed to the delivery of a creditable financial performance, ahead of budget.
02 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Our chief executive, Mark Cutifani, is totally committed Jim Rutherford joined the Board in November and has to living out Anglo Americans social values.
He has been appointed to the S&SD Committee.
He has more recently played a major role in engaging with the Catholic than 25 years experience in investment management and Church and the Kellogg Innovation Network to look at how investment banking, both as an institutional investor and mining companies, which can be key development players, analyst.
He brings to the Board considerable knowledge can come together with their stakeholders in focusing of the capital markets as well as a deep strategic on the shared purpose of creating sustainable value understanding of the mining industry.
long after a mines gates close for the last time.
I am also Most recently, in January 2014, Judy Dlamini, a former proud that Anglo Americans sustainable development medical practitioner and occupational-health specialist performance has been recognised by both the Dow Jones who now chairs a leading South African pharmaceuticals Sustainability Index 2013 and the Carbon Disclosure company, became a director and a member of the Audit Projects Global 500 Climate Performance Leadership Committee.
Judy has been a non-executive director on a Index.
Furthermore, our dedicated corporate social major South African platinum board for nine years and investment CSI arm in South Africa, the Chairmans Fund, has extensive South African business experience.
was recognised by Trialogue, a knowledge leader in the CSI field, for the ninth consecutive time, for its excellence in I am pleased to report that by the end of this years AGM being a true partner in development.
25% of our Board will be female, which is ahead, in time, ofthe aspirational 2015 targets of the Davies Report.
BOARD RENEWAL BOARD SUPPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE I regard it as a prime responsibility of a chairman to be looking continually to refresh and strengthen the Board Although 2013 was a testing year for management, of directors.
During the period from August 2009, when I believe that the strategic debate between the Board and I became chairman, and the AGM in April 2014, there will the executive following the appointment of Mark Cutifani have been a complete change in non-executive directors.
as chief executive is helping to lay the foundations for a I consider our current Board to have the right mix of talent, real transformation in the performance of our Group.
We with the appropriate bandwidth of skills and experience.
have turned the spotlight on enhancing the efficiency This necessarily extends beyond mining experience on of our operations, with the focus on improving day-to-day the Board and in our Group Management Committee to performance, stringent cost control and capital encompass such fields as major project management, discipline.
On the back of Marks Driving Value recovery engineering, finance, healthcare, corporate leadership programme, a number of assets are already showing and global business experience.
As well as the change of chief executive leadership, several Anglo American is now on a journey to emerge as a changes took place within the ranks of the non-executive revitalised company over the next two to three years.
At the AGM in April 2013, Peter Woicke stood The Board has lent its full support to Driving Value and down from the Board and Jack Thompson replaced him the initiatives and changes Mark Cutifani has put in as chairman of the Safety and Sustainable Development place to bring this about.
Byron Grote, who has spent more than 30 years in the OUR PEOPLE extractives industry, also joined the Board at the last Despite the challenges of change that Driving Value AGM, and he will take over the chairmanship of the Audit inevitably brings, I sense our people are enthused and Committee from David Challen who is standing down at up for the challenge of returning Anglo American to being the forthcoming AGM.
I would like to take this opportunity a company that is respected for its performance, along to thank David for his utmost professionalism in this with its values.
demanding role and his exceptional and dedicated service to the Board in general.
I want to express my sincere appreciation to all employees for their daily commitment to constant improvement.
Sir CK Chow also retires as a director at the 2014 AGM and I wish to acknowledge the important contribution he has made to our deliberations, particularly as a member OUR STRATEGIC REPORT of the Remuneration and Nomination committees.
Our 2013 Strategic report, from pages 291, was In July, we appointed Mphu Ramatlapeng to the Board and reviewed and approved by the Board of directors on to the S&SD Committee.
Mphu brings to our team a great 13 February 2014. deal of international board and governmental experience in both the public and private health sectors.
Sir John Parker Chairman Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 03
