Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 02 Chairmans statement 2012 13 was another year of progress This year we set out some planned for M&S, where a mixed trading changes to our non-executive team.
performance was balanced by good Having served on the Board since 2006, progress in building our long-term Jeremy Darroch will retire from the Board foundations, in line with our key in June 2013.
I would like to thank strategic goals.
Jeremy for his significant contribution to M&S and his strong leadership of our We are implementing large-scale Audit Committee.
We welcomed Andy revolutionary change that spans our Halford as a non-executive director in supply chain, stores, web platform and January.
As Chief Financial Officer of IT infrastructure creating a sound base Vodafone for the past eight years, Andy We are implementing for sustainable future growth.
However, has a wealth of valuable experience and our plans to transform M&S have not revolutionary change will succeed Jeremy as Chairman of the altered the values on which we were Audit Committee from June.
With in our retailing founded: our commitment to Quality, continuity in mind, Steven Holliday Value, Service, Innovation and Trust systems and agreed to stand for re-election at the continues to set us apart.
AGM for a further year, before stepping infrastructure but down at the AGM in July 2014.
By this Performance and dividend the values on which time he will have served on the M&S In a difficult year, customers continued to Board for ten years and chaired the M&S was founded place their trust in M&S.
We delivered Remuneration Committee for almost consistently strong results in our Food remain unaltered.
Our executive team Robert Swannell took decisive action to address areas of After nine years, Steven Sharp, Executive Chairman underperformance in our General Director, Marketing, is retiring from M&S.
Merchandise business and we began He will step down from the Board DiviDenD to see improvements in our operational following the AGM and will continue to execution and a reassertion of our Interim dividend paid on work in the business as Creative Director 11 January 2013 quality credentials.
I would like to thank Steve for the significant role he has We made significant improvements to 6.2p per share played in shaping the M&S brand and our UK operations: rolling out our new reinforcing our quality, style and ethical store concept across our estate, opening Final dividend to be paid credentials through numerous iconic a new e-commerce distribution centre on 12 July 2013 campaigns.
Our 10.8p per share Multi-channel business and our priority As a result of this change, Patrick International markets grew strongly, Bousquet-Chavanne will take over Total dividend for supporting our strategic goals.
responsibility for marketing and will be 2012 13 put forward for election to the Board In line with our dividend policy, we 17.0p per share as Executive Director, Marketing and remain committed to delivering Business Development at this years consistent returns to our shareholders.
Patrick joined M&S in September This year we intend to pay a final 2012 as Director of Strategy dividend of 10.8p, unchanged from Implementation and Business last year.
Development and has played a key Governance and the Board role in the development of the new On joining M&S, I set out three clear marketing strategy in womenswear.
priorities for the Board and we remain firmly focused on these key aspects.
First, to debate and agree our strategy, holding the executive team accountable for its execution.
Second, to ensure we have the most talented team to execute our strategy and that we plan effectively for succession.
Finally, to set the tone of doing the right thing, supported by the appropriate governance structures and their effective implementation.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 03 This year, we made internal changes to As part of our commitment to share our Our governance principles strengthen our executive team on the progress, a preview of our forthcoming Leadership Board.
John Dixon was appointed as Autumn Winter Womenswear collection Strategy, performance, responsibility Executive Director of General is enclosed with this report.
We have and accountability are at the heart Merchandise and after 26 years with compiled this exclusive edit for our of your Boards discussions.
We M&S, has a proven track record in a shareholders, which I hope illustrates interrogate each area to ensure variety of roles, most recently as how we have listened and responded to high-quality decision-making, that in Executive Director of Food.
turn drives a culture of continuous Director of Retail Steve Rowe is a proven improvement across the business.
The Notice of Meeting that accompanies retailer with 23 years experience at M&S this report highlights a change of venue Read more on page 42 and he has succeeded John as for our AGM.
As part of our plan to make Executive Director of our Food business.
Effectiveness M&S a more efficient business, this years Our performance is independently How we do business meeting will be held at Wembley, which reviewed on a regular basis to The founders of M&S understood clearly has the facilities to host all our large-scale ensure that the Board remains the importance of doing the right thing events, both internal and external.
It is focused, is provided with actions to create long-term value.
We continue also easily reached by public transport for improvement and meets targets their tradition of responsible behaviour and we encourage all our shareholders, for future improvement.
through our comprehensive large and small, to attend.
environmental and ethical programme, Read more on page 44 Looking ahead Plan A.
To succeed over the long term As we move into the third year of our Accountability businesses need to make connections plan we are fully committed to its Strategic decision-making is discussed with society and Plan A is our execution.
Though the retail landscape within the context of risk, ensuring that manifestation of that.
It also makes remains challenging, we are in no doubt we understand and, where possible, sound economic, as well as moral sense.
that this is the right course.
mitigate those risks to which M&S Values matter in business and we work is exposed.
The fundamental and revolutionary hard to maintain high levels of trust and changes taking place to the Read more on page 45 transparency with all our stakeholders infrastructure of M&S are essential.
Our particularly across the supply chain.
Engagement progress will become increasingly visible Operating our business in the right way Building relationships with private and to our stakeholders, as customers has benefited us at a time when institutional investors is fundamental to experience the tangible benefits of the transparency of supply has never been achieving our goals.
We do so through improvements we have made.
We are more important to customers.
face-to-face meetings and a range of confident that these changes will deliver communications channels.
Plan A forces us to think differently and a more valuable company.
accept new ways of doing things.
Its Read more on page 49 Delivering and executing this level of also influenced how we do business, change requires hard work, enabling us to be open both inside perseverance and most of all and outside the Boardroom about our commitment.
I am always impressed by achievements and equally frank when the efforts of our employees wherever we fall short of expectations or targets.
they work in M&S and I thank them Over five years since launch, the sincerely for their contribution this year.
programmes values remain central to our long-term future and our connection with employees and customers.
Shareholder engagement Taking shareholders with us on our journey allows them to see clearly the progress we are making.
We held a number of investor and analyst events Robert Swannell during the year, including a visit to Istanbul Chairman to see our international operations at first hand.
We also held a briefing on our multi-channel re-platforming, hosted visits to our new flagship store at Cheshire Oaks and our new e-commerce distribution centre at Castle Donington.
More recently, we held a briefing on our plans for our General Merchandise business.
All of the information shared at these events is available to our shareholders at marksandspencer.
