chairMans sTaTeMenT Roger Devlin Chairman In this my first statement as Chairman, I report on a year of solid freehold, with around 2 billion of assets at the year end.
Cash progress for Marstons, with a strong operating performance in the generation has been strong, with free cash flow before investment second half year contributing to a 6.6% increase in underlying capital of 86 million.
We have secure long-term financing, with net operating profit to 168.3 million 2012: 157.9 million.
Profit before debt excluding lease financing of 1,082 million 2012: 1,121 million, taxation and exceptional items also increased, by 1% to 88.4 million and an additional 109 million of funding raised through our innovative 2012: 87.8 million, despite significantly higher interest costs due long-term lease financing in 2013.
I am pleased to report that we principally to contractual rate increases in the securitisation.
continue to make progress in improving our returns with Cash Return Underlying earnings of 12.3 pence per share were unchanged.
On Cash Capital Employed of 10.8%, representing a 1.2% improvement since 2010.
I chair the Board at an exciting stage of Marstons development.
I am fortunate to have joined a well-managed, long-established business The outlook for Marstons is good, and the Board is pleased to with good knowledge of its markets.
We have a clear, consistent recommend a final dividend of 4.1 pence per share, providing a strategy and it is producing promising results.
I aim to continue to total dividend for the year of 6.4 pence per share, up 5% on 2012 and develop our current plans with a focus on ensuring that resources covered 1.9 times 2012: 2.0 times.
Our dividend policy is unchanged: and capital are employed in the most favourable markets and we aim for dividend cover of around two times over the consistent with consumer trends.
Since joining Marstons, I have been very impressed by the I look forward to meeting shareholders and welcome your feedback enthusiasm, dedication and professionalism of our people, from on Marstons and its strategy.
In particular, I hope to see many of you head office staff to those working in our pubs and in brewing.
at this years AGM when there will be an opportunity for us to discuss Their commitment is reflected in very good employee feedback our progress and plans.
survey results, and will be vital to our further development in a fast This is my opportunity to thank my predecessor, David Thompson, changing market.
for his unfailing effort and strong leadership of the Board during his In reviewing our operating results, I am especially encouraged by the long and happy association with the Company.
David was a tireless good performance of our food-led Destination and Premium pubs, ambassador for the business and an eloquent and enthusiastic which are the focus of our investment plans and which underpin our advocate of brewing and pubs.
An independent Board review growth, and by our outperformance in Brewing.
We have wellprepared for my arrival reflects a strong, well-rounded Board which developed expertise in site selection and property development is testament to his chairmanship since 2001. contributing to high returns from our new-build pub-restaurants, and Robin Hodgson retires from the Board at the close of this years a good understanding of our customers and markets.
Our plans are AGM having served as a Non-executive Director since April 2002. well thought through and, with a visible new site pipeline, achievable.
I thank Robin, who has also been a very effective Senior Independent I am pleased to report that we are now able to increase our growth Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, for his wise targets to 25-30 new pub-restaurants per year, with around 60 counsel and contribution to the work of the Board over the last 11 targeted over the next two years creating around 1,200 new jobs years and wish him the best for the future.
Neil Goulden succeeds each year, mainly for young people and often in areas where Robin as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the employment opportunities are limited.
Remuneration Committee and Nick Backhouse succeeds Neil as The community pub market however continues to face substantial Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Marstons has been on the front foot in addressing these In conclusion, I was privileged to be invited to serve as your through the introduction of the franchise model and intensive Chairman.
As you will read in this Annual Report and Accounts, management of smaller wet-led managed pubs, but the tenanted Marstons is in decent shape and continues to make good progress model remains difficult despite increased support.
We therefore aim in delivering value to its shareholders and other stakeholders, despite to accelerate our disposal plans: having realised nearly 50 million in the burden of both tax and regulation that we confront everyday.
2013 we have increased that target to at least 60 million in 2014.
Similarly, I am well aware that disposable income for many of our These plans reflect changes in the way people use pubs and their customers remains limited and we will continue to strive at all times higher expectations of them.
Looking forward, we will continue to to provide fair value.
We expect the pace of economic recovery to be work hard to differentiate, to innovate, and to adapt new technology modest across much of the country.
Despite this I am confident that such as social media to ensure that our pubs remain relevant to we have the right plans in place, and the resources necessary to todays and tomorrows customers.
Our goal to be the best place achieve our objectives.
around here for celebrations, day to day treats and socialising, recognises that there are many competitors for the leisure pound, from restaurants to coffee shops but none better than a well-run pub.
In reviewing the balance sheet we have made some progress in 2013 towards our objectives to reduce leverage and improve returns, and these will remain key priorities.
Our property estate is substantially Roger Devlin Chairman 28 November 2013 4 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
