Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information World leading suppliers of wire, Lifting wire rope products, lifting fittings and blocks.
review Revenue Year ended 31 December 2010 422.7m 2009: 419.0m Headline operating profit Year ended 31 December 2010 66.7m 2009: 62.5m Revenue by geographical destination % 1 4 Year ended 31 December 2010 3 2 1 Europe 26% 2 North America 49% 3 Asia 14% 4 Rest of World 11% Sectors served: Onshore and offshore oil and gas, deep shaft and surface mining, petrochemical, alternative energy, general industrial and construction markets, fishing and marine, infrastructure e. g. bridges and sports stadia and material handling industries.
Bridon cables and end fittings were used to support the Infinity Bridge in Stockton-on-Tees.
See page 12 for further details.
Lifting businesses Bridon Bridon designs and manufactures a comprehensive range Bridon of lifting and stabilising solutions for applications in wire rope, www.
com fibre rope, steel wire and strand.
The company services global customers in the oil and gas, mining, industrial, marine and infrastructure sectors.
com As foreshadowed in the Interim Statement in August, Bridons profit in 2010 fell short of the record profit recorded in 2009, which benefited particularly from strong orders in the later Acco cycle offshore oil and gas business.
com in the second half of 2010 were weaker, due to lower sales in this business and low margin contracts in Bridons structures business.
Whilst a number of Bridons markets experienced some recovery in 2010, market conditions in the offshore oil and gas industry remained subdued throughout the year.
By contrast the onshore oil and gas sector did see some recovery.
Annual Report 2010 Melrose PLC 11 Lifting review continued Bridon The Infinity Bridge is a public pedestrian and cycle footbridge across the River Tees in the borough of Stockton-on-Tees.
Bridon manufactured the locked coil cable assemblies and end fittings for this award-winning bridge.
The design utilises two tied arches and is supported using Bridon Galfan locked coil cables fitted with Stylite architectural sockets.
The largest of the arches is tied using 90mm diameter cable assemblies and the deck is hung from the arches using 44 x 30mm diameter cables.
The total length of the bridge is 237 metres.
More information about Bridon is available online at www.
com General demand in the offshore market was weak in the aftermath of the global recession and this was exacerbated Bridons focus on leading technology by the moratorium on deep water drilling following the Horizon product development accelerated in oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
Indeed, the impact of the spill was felt in markets beyond North America, as the regulatory 2010 with the introduction of eleven authorities continued to scrutinise safety issues connected with deep water drilling.
new products designed to meet the By contrast, the mining market continued to improve for both increasingly demanding applications deep shaft and surface mining as a result of the renewed required by its customers.
demand for commodities, which has led to increased orders in most markets.
The commercial construction markets in North America, the Bridon continues to invest in the upgrading of its manufacturing Middle East and Europe remained subdued in 2010.
As a result, and research and development facilities.
The programme to many industrial crane companies have been cautious in placing improve the wire mill in Doncaster, designed to increase orders, although activity has continued at reasonable levels in manufacturing efficiencies and significantly reduce carbon China and other parts of Asia.
However, industrial production emissions and other environmental waste, is due for completion has increased in some countries, which has driven demand for in the second half of 2011.
The 3 million investment in industrial ropes.
the companys German factory, necessary to increase manufacturing capability for large multi-strand ropes, is on Bridons focus on leading technology product development schedule to complete shortly.
Further substantial capital accelerated in 2010 with the introduction of eleven new products investment is also planned over the next two years.
designed to meet the increasingly demanding applications required by its customers.
New product introductions in 2010 Outlook included the 2G Big Hydra, an enhanced multi-layer winch rope Although Bridon expects demand in the offshore oil and gas for the oil and gas industry, which provides greater strength and market to remain subdued in the first half of 2011, it is expected rotational stability to meet the growing challenges of deep-sea that this market will start to see some recovery in the second deployment and the Tiger BiG Bristar rope, used in the surface half of the year, particularly in light of the continuing strength mining industry for dragline applications.
Improvements have in the price of oil.
The higher oil price will also benefit Bridons also been made to Bridons industrial and crane range with the mining business, positively affecting activity levels in the introduction of a new high strength Dyform 8 Bristar rope, which Canadian Tar Sands.
offers improved design and plastic sheathing, resulting in significantly increased fatigue resistance.
12 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Whilst the outlook for Bridons construction market remains Crosby uncertain, global manufacturing, particularly in the Far East, In October 2010, Crosby supplied is likely to continue to increase during 2011, bringing modest an integral piece of the system growth to Bridons industrial business.
used in rescuing thirty three Chilean Bridons strategy to lead technology development through high coal miners from their sixty nine quality manufacturing and innovative technical solutions in the day underground imprisonment.
wire and fibre rope industry leaves it well placed to benefit from Through a local distributor, Crosby market recovery.
provided the key link between the wire rope used to hoist the miners Crosby out of the mine and the capsule in Crosby is a world leader in the design, manufacture and sale which they made the trip to safety.
of lifting fittings and blocks to the oil and gas, construction and A Crosby S421 Wedge Socket mining sectors, serviced primarily through a global network was used to connect the 24mm wire of specialist distributors.
rope to the 600kg rescue capsule.
The recovery in Crosbys trading performance from a difficult 2009, reported in the Interim Statement, has continued on the back of an ongoing improvement in order bookings throughout the year.
Crosbys sales in the second half of 2010 were over More information about Crosby is available online at www.
com 20 per cent higher than in the second half of 2009 the low point in Crosbys sales cycle and this has resulted in a very encouraging recovery in Crosbys profit and operating margins.
During the year Crosby continued to focus and build upon its broad product mix of lifting fittings sold through its traditional distributor base.
Market share gains have been achieved as a result of working closely with its distributors and focusing on technical training and end-customer service and support.
This model has proved very successful in North America and is beginning to gain traction in other parts of the world.
An integral part of this model is a continuing focus on new product development.
During the year Crosby introduced a number of new product lines and also made refinements to existing products.
The Split Nut design, used in crane blocks to enable quick removal and easy inspection, has become widely accepted in its market.
In addition, Crosby is in the process of introducing a new e-applications system, soon to be available on services such as the Apple iPad, designed to provide customers with real-time information regarding the installation and usage of Crosby products.
The expansion of the Crosby franchise beyond North America and Europe, where it has a powerful presence, remains a high priority.
In addition to the rationalisation of the manufacturing base in Europe, further investment was made in strengthening the sales and marketing team with a view to increasing penetration, including territories such as India and the Middle East.
Crosby continues to expand its capabilities in China by extending its network of distributors sales volume has increased by an average of 35 per cent per annum over the past few years.
This effort has been greatly assisted by the new crane block and sheave centre, based in Hangzhou, Outlook China, which has resulted in shorter delivery lead times to On the back of a growing order book in its established North customers.
Although at an early stage, Crosby has started American and European markets, and significant advances stocking inventory in Brazil in order to take advantage of the being made in penetrating newer regions, we look forward to fast growing offshore oil exploration opportunities.
a further year of good progress.
