Global designer and manufacturer Dynacast of precision engineered die-cast metal components and assemblies.
review Revenue Year ended 31 December 2010 275.7m 2009: 208.7m Headline operating profit Year ended 31 December 2010 43.0m 2009: 21.3m 4 Revenue by geographical destination % 1 Year ended 31 December 2010 3 1 Europe 41% 2 North America 33% 3 Asia 25% 2 4 Rest of World 1% Sectors served: Automotive, telecommunications, consumer electronics, computing, healthcare and construction.
The Dynacast TV lamp bracket functions as a grip for the colour wheel inside Samsungs Digital Light Protection DLP high-definition, flat screen television.
The lamp bracket is made of aluminium alloy to deliver high strength and low product weight.
Dynacast is a global manufacturer of precision engineered Dynacast businesses products, including die-cast metal components that can be machined, plated and assembled to customer specifications.
Dynacast The products are manufactured using proprietary die-casting www.
com technology and are supplied to a wide range of end markets, including automotive, healthcare, telecommunications, Techmire consumer electronics, hardware, computers and peripherals.
com After a very challenging 2009, Dynacast staged an outstanding recovery in 2010.
Revenue was 32 per cent higher than in the Fishercast previous year and headline operating profit more than doubled.
co. uk Particularly pleasing was the improvement in the return on sales in the year to over 15 per cent.
A large proportion of the costs that were taken out of the business to deal with the downturn have since returned as volumes have grown: however, it is expected that there will be some permanent saving, resulting in increased profitability.
14 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Zinc is the major raw material used in the manufacture of After a very challenging 2009, Dynacasts products and the LME price increased from an average of US $1,658 per tonne in 2009 to US $2,156 per Dynacast staged an outstanding tonne in 2010, accounting for approximately 12 million of recovery in 2010.
Revenue was the increase in revenue in 2010.
Dynacast benefits from an established metal cost pass-through mechanism, such that 32 per cent higher than in the this price increase had little impact on profit during the period.
previous year and headline The underlying adjusted for metal and foreign currency sales increase in Europe in 2010 over the previous year was over operating profit more than doubled.
30 per cent, with particularly strong performances in Germany, Austria and Spain.
Sales to Gillette were up significantly as a result of the introduction of the new Fusion Pro-Glide razor.
North America, having been the hardest hit of Dynacasts regions in 2009 as a result of the severe downturns in the automotive and construction sectors, saw a gradual recovery in 2010 with sales picking up.
During the year management Dynacast closed the Montreal die-casting facility and transferred the production to other Dynacast plants in North America and The telecommunications connector acts as a housing for Europe.
After adjusting for this effect and foreign currency a midsize video jack, a video patching system product from and metal prices, underlying sales in the region rose by a company called ADC a company that provides connections 13 per cent over 2009. for wireless, cable, broadcast and enterprise networks around the world.
The connector replaces six separate components, In Asia, where the downturn in Dynacasts sales was not as significantly improving quality as well as reducing production pronounced as in Europe and North America, the underlying costs for Dynacast customers.
sales growth in 2010 was a most encouraging 23 per cent.
China continues to be the growth engine in Asia with Dynacast More information about Dynacast is available online at Shanghai leading the way with underlying revenue and headline www.
com operating profit growth in the year of 48 per cent and 153 per cent respectively over 2009.
The new 4,500 square metre factory, which opened in Dongguan, South China, in 2009, has continued to develop rapidly.
In view of the exciting growth potential in this region, Dynacast invested in a greenfield facility in Batam, Indonesia, which operates as a satellite unit of Dynacast Singapore and commenced production in the second half of 2010.
In 2010 there has been pleasing development of Dynacasts international business development team which operates centrally to target sales to large multi-national companies which can then source product from any of Dynacasts factories worldwide.
New tool sales, which are a key indicator of future growth, recovered in 2010 and, although more modest in the more developed economies, were at a record high in Asia in the year, which bodes well for 2011 and beyond.
Outlook Having recovered dramatically from the downturn in 2009 through positive management actions on costs and improving markets, Dynacast remains well positioned to continue to produce good returns.
