Market leading manufacturers Energy of electricity generating equipment, switchgear and transformers.
review One of the four stator frames supplied by Brush to the Bohunice nuclear power plant in the Slovak Republic.
Brush also supplied five rewound generator rotors as part of the modernisation of the plant, which was completed in September 2010.
1 Revenue Revenue by geographical destination % 4 3 Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2010 427.5m 1 Europe 66% 2 2 North America 21% 2009: 418.3m 3 Asia 8% 4 Rest of World 5% Headline operating profit Sectors served: Power generation plants, oil and gas, utilities, Year ended 31 December 2010 industrial, marine, rail, telecommunications, construction, commercial, military, hydropower, cogeneration, uninterrupted power supply and aftermarket.
73.7m 2009: 61.0m Energy businesses Generators Brush Turbogenerators is the worlds largest independent manufacturer of electricity generating equipment for the power Brush Turbogenerators generation, industrial, oil and gas and offshore sectors.
eu four plants in the UK, Holland, the Czech Republic and the USA, it designs, manufactures and services generators principally in Brush GMS the 10 MW to 250 MW range for both gas and steam turbine www.
com applications and supplies a globally diverse customer base.
In addition, Brush Turbogenerators designs and manufactures Hawker Siddeley Switchgear Systems and Power transformers under the Brush name for UK electrical utilities and for the oil and gas sector primarily www.
hss-ltd. com in the Middle East.
Marelli Motori Brush Turbogenerators performed very well in 2010 with a www.
com particularly strong second half of the year.
Revenue was nearly 10 per cent higher than in 2009 and headline operating profit was approximately one third higher, resulting in a most healthy Harrington Generators and satisfying outcome in return on sales, one of Melroses www.
08 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Brush Turbogenerators Sales were delivered on a far leaner Brush is in the process of supplying four water-hydrogen and more efficient cost base, cooled generators as part of an extension to the nuclear power plant situated at Mochovce, Slovak Republic.
producing a significant improvement The picture shows one of the generators on test at the in operating margins and backed Brush factory in the Czech Republic.
All four Brush generators will be installed by 2013, together with new hydrogen and up by excellent cash generation.
water systems for cooling the generators, oil systems for lubrication and static excitation systems for power supply.
Aftermarket sales performed well and produced a 25 per cent increase in the year, aided by the contribution from the acquisition in February 2010 of GMS, a US company based More information about Brush Turbogenerators is available online at www.
GMS has exceeded its first year targets for both orders and sales.
The global power generation market began a slow recovery in 2010 resulting in Brush Turbogenerators new-build sales increasing by 3 per cent in 2010 over 2009.
These sales were delivered on a far leaner and more efficient cost base, producing a significant improvement in operating margins and backed up by excellent cash generation.
Sectors served: Power generation plants, oil and gas, utilities, Significant progress was also made in the year in implementing industrial, marine, rail, telecommunications, construction, the new Brush manufacturing strategy.
A combination of commercial, military, hydropower, cogeneration, uninterrupted targeted capital investment in core facilities, outsourcing of power supply and aftermarket.
non-core operations and a factory management philosophy based on value stream principles has reduced average generator manufacturing lead times by 15 per cent.
Furthermore, this improved performance is being carried out off an inventory base which is half what it was when FKI was acquired in 2008.
As reported in the Interim Statement last August, the operations of Brush Transformers were absorbed into Brush Turbogenerators in July 2010.
Marelli Motori Marelli The integration of the transformers business proceeded Marelli, based in Italy, is one of the worlds leading according to plan and was largely completed during 2010, manufacturers of industrial generators and electric motors resulting in significant operational gains, which will be reflected with a product portfolio ranging from 0.2 kW to 7.2 MW.
in Brush Turbogenerators performance in 2011.
The softness With five overseas offices in Germany, UK, Malaysia, USA in the UK demand for transformers experienced in the first half and South Africa it serves worldwide markets for power of 2010 has continued into the second half of the year.
generation, marine, oil and gas and industrial manufacturing.
Harrington, the specialist generator manufacturer based in the Sales in 2010 were marginally below 2009 and headline UK, saw a small fall in sales in 2010 following the 30 per cent operating profit in the year was affected by adverse sales mix decline in 2009.
There is evidence to suggest that the UK and increasing raw material costs.
During 2010 sales shifted small generator market bottomed out in 2010 as orders away from higher margin larger specialist machines towards increased by 14 per cent, primarily in the last quarter of the more standard machines, reflecting the impact of the economic year.
The transition of the business to more specialised downturn which hit the marine sector particularly hard.
Marelli applications is on track and Harrington enters 2011 with once again confirmed its cash generating abilities by converting a healthy order book.
135% of its headline operating profit into cash.
Outlook The building of the Malaysian plant is well underway and should Brush Turbogenerators entered 2011 with a new-build order be fully operational by the middle of this year.
This plant will book of 132 million representing well over half of its budgeted make the smaller, more standard generators, thereby enabling new-build sales for 2011.
These sales, allied to the improved Marellis Italian operation to focus on manufacturing larger, more operational efficiency of the plants, together with the increased sophisticated machines.
proportion of higher margin aftermarket business and the benefits from the integration of Brush Transformers, give us confidence that Brush Turbogenerators will have another good year in 2011.
Annual Report 2010 Melrose PLC 09 Energy review continued Outlook Hawker Siddeley Switchgear HSS The positive momentum in orders experienced in 2010 has HSS produces a wide range of indoor and outdoor medium continued into the new year and gives us confidence that 2011 voltage switchgear, selling into the global power distribution will be a year of progress at Marelli.
Based in the UK, where it has both a manufacturing and a R&D facility, HSS also has manufacturing plants in Australia and China.
HSS produced another good trading result in 2010 with further encouraging progress in operating margins, assisted by continuing focus on operational efficiency improvements during the year.
In addition, tight control of working capital resulted in a creditable cash generation performance.
Both UK and Australian operations recorded healthy sales and an encouraging order intake during the year on the back of a focused product development programme designed to expand the reach and the range of HSSs core products.
The indoor and outdoor power distribution markets remained strong, supported by the further development of the UK and overseas mass transit markets, where HSS secured significant business on a number of high profile infrastructure projects.
The facility in Shanghai is now fully operational, supplying circuit breakers into HSSs UK operation.
This will now be further developed to support the companys growth strategy in South East Asia, with particular regard to the growth of metropolitan systems throughout the region.
This presents a significant opportunity for HSS.
Outlook On the back of positive trading momentum at the end of 2010 and with a strong opening order book in 2011, HSS looks forward to a good year.
Marelli In 2010, Marelli supplied and installed a medium-voltage high-speed Vertical Hydropower Synchronous Generator to a hydropower plant in Brglen, Switzerland.
The generator is fitted with water cooled sleeve bearings able to withstand static and hydraulic loads and has a rated power of 3,700 kVA and a rated speed of 1,000 rpm.
The generator weighs 19 tonnes and is able to satisfy the electric power requirements of over 900 family houses.
More information about Marelli is available online at www.
com HSS Part of the HSS Fit and Forget family of products, the Horizon fills the market need for outdoor, ground-mounted circuit breakers.
Designed for a 38kV application, the Horizon can be used with other HSS products to provide cost effective and compact substations, or breathe new life into existing substations by replacing old and obsolete equipment.
More information about HSS is available online at www.
hss-ltd. com 10 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010
