Market leading manufacturers Other across the housing, construction, automotive, scrap processing Industrial and other industrial sectors.
review The equipment pictured shows a Harris BSH-30-1223 B-4 guillotine shear, based in Alabama, USA.
This was sold to a customer involved in the processing of miscellaneous steel scrap, pipe, plate and selected sections of freight rail cars and ship scrap.
With 1,118 metric tonnes of cutting force and a capacity to produce up to 46.3 metric tonnes of scrap material per hour, this shear epitomises Harris lead in the manufacture of recycling equipment in the industry and remains at the leading edge of technology and innovation.
4 Revenue Revenue by geographical destination % 1 3 Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2010 253.6m 1 Europe 43% 2 North America 53% 2009: 252.5m 3 Asia 3% 2 4 Rest of World 1% Headline operating profit Sectors served: Businesses serve a diverse range of sectors, Year ended 31 December 2010 including housing, construction, retail, scrap processing, fibre recycling, automotive, consumer packaging, brewing, food distribution, power tools, industrial, medical, office furniture and general engineering.
28.7m 2009: 20.6m Other Industrial businesses Truth Truth designs and manufactures a wide range of quality components for North American producers of fenestration Truth products including windows and patio doors utilised in both www.
com the new construction and the repair and remodel residential markets.
Most of Truths products are manufactured in plants in Minnesota, USA, and Ontario, Canada, with some lower Harris margin products outsourced to China.
com Truth reported a creditable trading result for 2010.
As previously reported, the dramatic recovery in Truths trading performance MPC from the low point in the first half of 2009 started levelling off in www.
co. uk the first half of 2010 as distribution pipelines were replenished.
Although since that time US housing indicators have improved, Weber Knapp they nevertheless remain significantly below average.
com done well to continue to raise its operating margins despite increasing pressure from substantial increases in the cost Prelok of materials, a testament to its leading market position in www.
16 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Truth continued to increase its market share during the Truth continued to increase its year, both through organic sales growth and new product development.
Managements focus during the year has centred market share during the year, both on the control of labour costs, productivity, quality, service levels through organic sales growth and and customer satisfaction, together with constant attention to working capital management.
The major strategic initiative to outsource the manufacturing of lower margin products to China continues to make good progress and this has resulted in more capacity being made Harris available for the efficient production of higher margin casement Harris is a market leader in the scrap and waste recycling units in Truths Minnesota plant.
industries, operating from two plants in Georgia, USA.
The company designs, manufactures and services a full Outlook range of equipment solutions and serves the scrap metal Notwithstanding the appalling weather conditions in a large and fibre recycling industries.
part of the US at the beginning of 2011, which has made comparisons to last year very difficult to assess, there is a Harris performed well in 2010.
Although revenue declined feeling that, although US housing remains sluggish, Truth will slightly in the year, headline operating profit was over show moderate sales growth in the year.
In view of the efficiency 15 per cent higher than in 2009, as a result of improved gains continuing to be made in the business and its growth in efficiency and lower costs, resulting in a healthy improvement market share, Truth should continue to improve its performance in operating margin.
Demand for scrap recycling machines in 2011 and is very well placed to benefit when the US housing recovered in 2010 with order intake being 50 per cent market recovers.
Harris continued to invest in design and engineering in 2010 through its new product development group.
During the year, Harris introduced four new products that boast higher Truth throughput but with approximately half the energy consumption.
Truth Hardwares Marvel Power Operator system for These new products present a strong value proposition in windows and skylights is a sleek new design that is simple the market.
to install, easy to operate and above all reliable and affordable.
During the year Harris decided to build on its strong reputation Rated to lift skylight sashes weighing up to 90 lbs, the Marvel in the scrap and waste recycling industries by expanding its System has an optional hand held remote control and roof presence in Latin America in order to take advantage of the mounted rain sensor to add convenience and peace of mind.
rapidly growing markets in that region.
In addition, during the year Harris continued to add resources to its growing aftermarket business.
This has grown from More information about Truth is available online at www.
com approximately 20 per cent of Harris sales in 2008 to 34 per cent in 2010.
Outlook Harris should have another year of progress in 2011 but, based on the current order book, this is expected to be weighted to the second half of the year.
Annual Report 2010 Melrose PLC 17 Other Industrial review continued MPC The advanced multi-material injection moulded cell has been designed and developed in support of various Jaguar and Land Rover vehicle platforms.
The robotic equipment shown below is used in the production of door cladding and exterior body trims.
Quick change robotics technology allows for flexible use across a number of similar components, which means that MPC can supply these parts for both three and five door vehicles.
More information about MPC is available online at www.
co. uk Outlook MPCs new business order book remains very strong with MPCs new business order book a number of key projects due to go live in 2011.
This together remains very strong with a number with the solid recovery being seen in UK manufacturing, allied to healthy exports, provides confidence for a successful of key projects due to go live outcome for the year.
MPC MPC designs and manufactures engineered plastic injection moulded and extruded components and metal pressings for sectors including food and beverage packaging, automotive, construction and industrial.
The recovery signalled in the Interim Statement has continued and for the year ended 31 December 2010 MPC reported an increase in sales of approximately 35 per cent over 2009 and a near doubling of headline operating profit.
The heavy focus on technically differentiated new product introductions has been rewarded with strong sales increases in the year to the automotive, building and consumer durable sectors.
For example, MPC worked closely with Wavin in the development of a universal inspection chamber to prevent access to drainage systems of external contaminants into surrounding land.
During 2010, in order to achieve its new product development objectives, MPC recruited a number of engineers specifically to focus on design and testing together with the customers to help bring onstream the new value-engineered products.
Exploitation of manufacturing niches that use new materials and technologies will remain a priority as the business moves forward.
