Directors Report and Business Review 3 The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the financial year ended 30 January 2010.
Principal activities Next is a UK based retailer offering exciting, beautifully designed, excellent quality clothing, footwear, accessories and home products.
Next distributes through three main channels: Next Retail, a chain of more than 500 stores in the UK and Eire, Next Directory, a home shopping catalogue and website with more than 2 million active customers, and Next International, with more than 180 stores and growing website capability outside the UK.
Other Group businesses include: n Next Sourcing, which designs, sources and buys Next branded products: n Lipsy, which designs and sells its own branded younger womens fashion products through wholesale, retail and website channels: and n Ventura, which provides customer services management to clients wishing to outsource their customer contact administration and fulfilment activities.
A review of the Groups businesses is set out in the Chief Executives Review and in the sections headed Business Strategies & Objectives, Key Performance Indicators, Risks & Uncertainties, Employees and Social & Environmental Matters.
Business strategies & objectives The primary financial objective of the Group remains the delivery of sustainable long term growth in earnings per share EPS.
In the current economic environment, it will be challenging to improve on this years record EPS although there is a reasonable expectation that this will be achieved.
The Board remains convinced that this objective is best achieved by continuation of the following strategies in its operating businesses: n Improving and developing Next product ranges, success in which is reflected in total sales and like for like sales performance.
n Profitably increasing Next selling space.
New store appraisals must meet demanding financial criteria before the investment is made and success is measured by monitoring achieved sales and profit contribution against appraised targets.
n Increasing the number of Next Directory customers and their average spend.
n Managing gross and net margins by better product sourcing, continuous cost control and efficient management of stock levels and working capital.
n Maintaining the Groups financial strength through a resilient balance sheet and financing structure.
n Purchasing and cancelling Next shares when it is earnings enhancing and in the interests of shareholders generally.
