Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Appendix to the directors report and business review Group financial KPIs NWL financial KPIs Gearing to RCV Regulatory gearing Definition and calculation: The ratio of Group net debt Definition and calculation: The ratio of NWL net debt to NWLs Regulatory Capital Value RCV plus a pro including loans to Group subsidiaries to NWLs RCV.
forma RCV for the Kielder securitisation and the PFI The RCV represents the total capital value of the contracts at the level of associated debt included in the appointed water and sewerage business on which Ofwat Groups net debt relating to those assets.
The NWL RCV allows a rate of return at price reviews based on its view represents the total capital value of the appointed water of the cost of capital.
and sewerage business on which The Water Services Purpose: The RCV generates most of the revenue Regulation Authority Ofwat allows a rate of return at stream of the Group and regulatory gearing is an price reviews based on its view of the cost of capital.
important factor in credit ratings.
Purpose: The RCV generates most of the revenue Source of underlying data: NWLs RCV is calculated by stream of the Group and regulatory gearing is an Ofwat and published each year.
Ofwat also publishes important factor in credit ratings.
anticipated values up to five years ahead, based on its Source of underlying data: NWLs RCV is calculated by last price determination.
NWLs net debt is published in Ofwat and published each year.
Ofwat also publishes the audited regulatory accounts and Ofwat annual anticipated values up to five years ahead, based on its reports on financial performance.
Group net debt is disclosed in the audited financial statements.
NWL non-financial KPIs Water Cash interest cover Drinking water quality Definition and calculation: Compliance with drinking Definition and calculation: Cash generated from water regulations as monitored by the Drinking Water operations less tax divided by net interest paid.
Purpose: Measures the ability of the Group to service its debt.
Purpose: To monitor drinking water quality.
Source of underlying data: Audited financial statements.
Source of underlying data: Samples recorded by NWL and audited by the DWI.
Cash flow to net debt Environment Definition and calculation: Cash generated from Sewage treatment works operations less tax paid divided by net debt.
Definition and calculation: Percentage of population Purpose: Indicates the Groups ability to reduce debt in equivalent served by non-compliant works failing Look the absence of need for additional investment, without Up Tables consents.
Purpose: To monitor the performance of NWLs sewage Source of underlying data: Audited financial treatment works and their impact on the environment.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded by NWL and the Environment Agency EA and reported on by the latter.
56 Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies Employee Bathing waters Mandatory Standard Lost time reportable accidents Definition and calculation: Percentage of bathing Definition and calculation: Injury accidents that are waters complying with Mandatory Standards.
reported to the Health & Safety Executive as required by the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Purpose: To monitor the impact of NWLs coastal Occurrences Regulations 1995.
Calculated as number of treatment works on the environment.
accidents reported in financial year per 1,000 employees.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded and Purpose: To monitor the safety performance of NWL reported by the EA.
Source of underlying data: Completed NWL accident Pollution incidents incident report forms.
Employee numbers provided by Definition and calculation: Number of category 1, 2 the human resources department.
and 3 pollution incidents in the calendar year as defined by the EA.
Sickness absence Purpose: To monitor the performance of NWLs Definition and calculation: Sickness absence days as sewerage system and its impact on the environment.
a percentage of total working days multiplied by the end Source of underlying data: Information recorded and of month headcount.
reported to Ofwat by the EA.
Purpose: To track and trend sickness absence levels across the organisation.
Customer Source of underlying data: Statement of Fitness for Customer levels of service Work fit note, return to work interviews and weekly Definition and calculation: Customer service standards returns by managers.
are established by Ofwat and calculated using source data in the company.
Employee turnover Purpose: To monitor customer service performance Definition and calculation: Number of leavers within of NWL.
the year as a percentage of average headcount.
Source of underlying data: Information collected Purpose: To track the employee turnover within the by the company and submitted to Ofwat.
It is business to ensure that it is within benchmark data.
Source of underlying data: Current employees details are held within the human resources management Customer satisfaction system reports show leavers against headcount.
Definition and calculation: Domestic customers satisfaction with overall service and overall value for money, expressed as satisfaction averaged over the surveys carried out during the year.
Average satisfaction is based on a scale of 1 to 10 using the score of 6 and above as satisfied.
Net scores are used to show true satisfaction by taking into consideration those who are dissatisfied who score between 1 and 3.
Purpose: To enable tracking of perception of reputation, service and value for money over time.
Source of underlying data: Independent surveys of 500 customers 300 north, 200 south chosen at random, but representative of the customer base, carried out each quarter a total of 2,000 customers.
