28 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review Business review Mark Whiteling, chief Financial officer The world in which we live is changing.
This change will IntroductIon continue to affect the demands of our customers.
Breadth The Premier Farnell Group consists of two divisions: and depth of product range and superior logistics remain the Marketing and Distribution Division MDD and the important, but increasingly customers are also looking for Industrial Products Division IPD.
the latest new-to-market technologies, accurate product MDD comprises five businesses which distribute a data and information, industry leading environmental wide range of electronic components, equipment and guidance as well as the services, software and technology Maintenance, Repair and Operations MRO products.
solutions that are an integral part of the design The businesses serve commercial, industrial and public engineering workplace.
sector markets in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
In 2010 they represented 90% of sales and 84% of underlying operating profit in the year before head office costs.
Premier Farnell is well positioned to Customers include Electronic Design Engineers EDE, leverage our unique value proposition small scale production units, purchasing professionals to drive further market share gains.
and maintenance and repair engineers.
In aggregate, the MDD businesses have over two million customer contacts, to which they provide in excess of 400,000 different products, sourced from an extensive global The importance that customers place on accessing all supply chain, as well as rapid and reliable delivery and of these resources via the web, at any time from any specialised value-adding services.
These customers location, continues to grow.
An estimated 20% of the place many small orders, with average order values of high service distribution market is served by large global approximately 240 in North America, 140 in Europe distributors with the capability to meet these evolving and 100 in Asia Pacific.
With the remaining 80% of the market The IPD comprises two businesses that supply high served by small and medium-sized local competitors, performance products to specialist industrial markets.
Premier Farnell is well positioned to leverage our unique In 2010, the Division accounted for 10% of sales and 16% value proposition to drive further market share gains.
of underlying operating profit, before head office costs.
The IPD has made good progress in identifying fast growing international markets and new industrial markets for its products.
This Business Review is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and is framed around the principles and guidelines for Operating and Financial Reviews published in the UK by the Accounting Standards Board.
Its purpose is to provide information which is significant to understanding the development, performance and position of the Group, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and to include the Key Performance Indicators KPIs used by the Group to monitor this development, performance and position.
Additionally, the Business Review is intended to highlight trends, where identifiable, in factors which affect the development, performance and position of the Group.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Business review Throughout the last three years we have continued During the first year of this transformation we will to measure the progress of our strategy, that focuses incur incremental costs of circa 5.0 million.
Of this, on the EDE customer segment, driving sales via the 3.0 million are one-off costs, half of which relate to the web, internationalising our business model and the development of our element14 brand and web positioning, more profitable segments of MRO, against clear Key with the balance relating to incremental system costs Performance Indicators KPIs, as outlined on pages The remaining 2.0 million of incremental costs relate to 14 and 15 of this report.
We have consistently the launch of our element14 store in North America, which communicated our performance against these KPIs to will become earnings enhancing in its second year.
both our external and internal stakeholders, irrespective of the economic climate.
These measures are embedded across our organisation and are at the core of our incentive plans, ensuring the focus and dedication of As we enter the next phase of our our people is aligned to our strategy.
transformation our people, systems and 2010 marked the third year of our current three-year infrastructure will be key to enabling our strategy and in the second half of the year we undertook a detailed strategic review, firstly reviewing our progress vision for the future.
over the past three years, then taking a look at the world in which we now live and how best to compete in that world.
The review concluded that our core strategy will remain unchanged.
However, over the next three years we will The following sections cover only the MDD businesses continue to transform our business though building on on the basis that this Division represented 90% of sales.
the strong foundations that the major pillars of our The IPD businesses are covered in the relevant section strategy provide.
of the Review of Operations.
Throughout the first phase of our transformation we invested to deliver our strategy and drive profitable growth.
These investments in people, product and the web have helped to prepare our business for the future as we transform into a web-based organisation.
As we enter the next phase of our transformation our people, systems and infrastructure will be key to enabling our vision for the future.
With the web becoming more encompassing for our customers, in the coming year we will start the work to plan and prepare for the implementation of a standard enabling system to align our back-end systems to support our single front-end web platform.
As well as driving efficiencies in workflows, this system will provide the capacity and the capabilities needed to ensure we are able to support the future needs of our customers and suppliers.
30 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review: Markets Markets The overall global electronics distribution market is The global electronics distribution market in which estimated to be 200 billion, of which the high service the Group operates is serviced by high service element is approximately 20 billion.
The chart below distributors and high volume distributors.
shows the life cycle of an electronic design from prototyping through to the end of its useful life, Premier High service distributors handle the requirements Farnell principally operates in the two circles identified.
of EDEs, who are engaged in the conceptualising, Customer demand for a wide breadth of stocked product, designing, prototyping and low volume production information, software and technology solutions that can of new products, and MRO engineers, who be accessed immediately through an online environment, maintain, operate and repair the installed product has increased in importance in recent times.
Over the last year the barriers to entry for our small and medium-sized base of electronic equipment.
High volume competitors, which serve the remaining 80% of the high distributors handle the supply of large quantities service distribution market, have continued to be raised of components for scheduled manufacturing of as the strength of content rich web environments and global supply chains becomes even more important.
Premier Farnell is a high We have continued to invest in these critical areas of our service distributor operating within a market and proposition during the downturn.
However, the small competitive landscape that have continued to local distributors have not been able to invest and as a consequence are finding it increasingly challenging when evolve over the past year, although they remain trying to meet customer needs and expectations.
Around 20% of the total available of only four global distributors able to meet these exacting market is served by Premier Farnell and three other requirements in key areas, the opportunity for Premier Farnell to leverage its high service proposition to win new global players operating in this space, with the customers and gain market share is significant.
remaining 80% of the market being served by Farnell has a strong position in many European markets small and medium-sized local competitors.
and Newark is one of the leaders in North America.
Product life cycle Manufacturer direct Volume distribution Volume distribution EDE MRO Premier Farnell Manufacturer Premier Farnell Student Prototype Small OEM Service Maintenance Repair Large OEM R&D Pilot Broad customer base Engineers Purchasing professionals Engineers Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Business review: Markets Across the globe however, there remain significant Our EDE strategy is even more relevant in todays world.
opportunities for the Company to grow market share, Over the course of the past year the behaviours seen underpinned by a competitive advantage from its in EDE market sector have continued to support our innovative web environments, widespread customer strategic focus.
Our EDE sales declined slower and to reach and global supply chain expertise.
a lesser extent than MRO sales and have been quicker to recover.
We remain confident in our EDE strategy The other businesses within MDD, namely CPC and continuing to deliver a growth rate above the overall MCM, operate primarily on a national basis in their home electronics market.
The level of maintenance and repair markets UK and Ireland, and North America, respectively activity varies by geography, reflecting the indigenous and are focused on a particular subset of the overall manufacturing environment, and tends to be tightly tied electronics distribution market.
to the general level of economic activity a fact which has been exacerbated this year by the global economic EconoMIc cyclEs environment.
MDD supplies a variety of industries across a number CPC and MCM supply electrical and electronic ranges, of geographic markets.
Not only does no customer such as audio-visual and security products, to very account for more than 2% of sales, no supplier accounts broad customer bases, from specialist retailers and for more than 5% of product.
We support a huge range small businesses to large organisations.
The level of of customers in over 156 different industries.
general economic activity also exerts some influence on the sales performance of these businesses.
This diversification of geography, customer segments and suppliers has historically limited the Companys exposure to regionalised economic cycles.
In the current global economic climate this leaves us well placed to pick up on available market growth whether that is in a specific Premier Farnell is always looking to improve geography or a vertical market segment.
The global its working environment and conditions electronics design market is forecast to rebound into growth over the course of the coming year, albeit for employees, making it a place where cautiously as the outlook for the improving global people want to work.
It is a company that economy remains uncertain.
actively promotes and encourages you to There are many market segments that are driving this growth, with some set to experience heightened growth develop and progress your skills.
Premier levels over the coming year.
For example, it is estimated Farnell takes its responsibility for good that globally the biometric surveillance market segment will grow at a Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR environmental management very seriously of 61.0% through until 2017.
Solar, medical electronics, sensoring, and optoelectronics markets are further and is always striving to lessen its impact examples of technology segments that are set to on the world.
Employee experience significant growth in the next 12 months.
Brian Scott, Warehouse Operative Both Newark and Farnell offer customers a very broad CPC United Kingdom range of products for use in electronic equipment, with a strategic focus on the design part of the life cycle.
Since the 1950s, the pervasion of electronics into everyday life has increased steadily and the aesthetics as well as the functionality of these products has become increasingly important, creating more design work.
As the awareness of individual and corporate carbon footprint increases, re-design around power management and energy efficiency has also grown.
32 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review: Markets Markets continued oPPortunItIEs For organIc groWth The strength of our strategy provides much opportunity for us to grow our business organically and with 80% of Premier Farnells vision and managements the high service distribution market being served by small ability to see beyond the here and now and medium-sized distributors there is further opportunity for us to drive organic profitable growth through market within the electronics industry is a key share gains.
driver in our continued investment and Our strategy has identified the EDE market as a faster support.
The Group as a whole has done growing segment and, although it is not exempt from a slowing global economy, there continue to be a great job of raising the barriers to entry in segments that are demonstrating strength.
Our rich web environment continues to attract new customers as its industry these are barriers that we feel well as existing customers from our more manual sales will continue to rise as the fundamentals channels.
There are also burgeoning electronic design industries in China, India and Eastern Europe which of high service electronic component serve both export and domestic markets.
The number distribution increase in importance, both of indigenous design engineers is growing rapidly in these regions and the growth inherent in these developing from a supplier and customer point of view.
international markets has continued to be demonstrated When making investment decisions we over the past year.
This is a trend we expect to continue throughout 2011. look carefully at how well an organisation We are using technology and the web as a way to can capitalise on the opportunities that differentiate our proposition, increase our competitiveness the web can present.
We feel that Premier and demonstrate industry leadership.
Design engineers are early adopters of new technology and they seek to Farnell is well placed to take advantage of do business with companies that can meet their needs as they evolve.
With element14 we have embraced the the web becoming an integral part of the social media and Web 2.0 revolution and by doing so we business to business world.
The Groups have begun to create a workplace where our customers, suppliers and industry experts can share information, focus on electronic design engineers collaborate and converse on their designs.
element14 has great synergies with the web and by is just one example of our innovative advances having a pronounced affect on both our market share gains and laying over that a strategy to expand into competitive advantage by increasing the barriers to entry emerging international markets, whether in the high service distribution space and the pressures faced by our small and medium-sized competitors.
it be virtually or with a physical presence, Although we continue to observe a degree of uncertainty the possible future returns of the business among global economies, we believe that the opportunity are an exciting investment case.
Premier to drive organic growth from within our markets remains significant.
Farnells strategy is a powerful one and, together with a business that is well positioned to deliver strong structural growth, the investment story carries great credence and is a story which we fully support as shareholders.
Institutional Investor A long term leading shareholder in Premier Farnell Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Business review: Markets Industry EFFIcIEncIEs These substances are restricted to complement the ease of recycling, re-use and recovery at the end of a products With mounting pressures on industry in the US and life under the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Western Europe to become more efficient and cut fixed WEEE Directive.
Beyond Europe, countries such as cost bases, purchasing professionals are turning to their China, United States, Korea and Australia are all looking distributors for more assistance than ever before.
to implement their own versions of RoHS, with others Many organisations are streamlining or outsourcing their to follow.
procurement to reduce the total cost of purchasing and The Energy using Products EuP Directive looks at the drive efficiencies in their own supply chains.
In order to energy consumption of a product from mining the raw achieve this customers are combining the reduction of material right through to its recycling at end-of-life.
inventory and ordering closer to their point of need with The Batteries Directive restricts the use of mercury the purchasing of product in lower cost geographies.
and cadmium in batteries, while also putting measures Premier Farnells MDD businesses are well positioned to in place to encourage the collection and recycling of serve these customers.
We offer a reliable supply chain batteries.
Finally, the REACH regulations impose tighter that provides late ordering capabilities and a next day controls over the use of thousands of chemicals in Europe delivery service, we have continued to invest in the worlds to establish the flow of specific safety data through the developing markets and our ability to create operating supply chain.
efficiencies for customers, by reducing the number of suppliers that customers deal with and offering a range All of these pieces of legislation have become important of other services, is best-in-class.
considerations for new design work and impact our customers immediately.
Premier Farnell provides industry leading guidance, support and information on this critical area for EDEs and continues to be a strong area of The leadership team at Premier Farnell has differentiation for our MDD businesses and one which customers clearly value.
articulated a clear and consistent strategy for generating attractive shareholder custoMEr ProPosItIon returns.
The Company is well-placed to Our proposition for the EDE customer is based on an extensive esoteric product offering with availability for benefit both from technological change shipment that day or the next day, the integrity of the global supply chain, accurate technical information to and its growing share of business in support their work and the provision of services, software the more rapidly growing economies of and technology solutions essential to EDEs and the design environment.
All of which make Premier Farnell the world.
Institutional Investor a distributor of choice for high service needs.
A long term leading shareholder in Premier Farnell EDE customers heavily utilise the web in their work, far beyond simple product searches, and the development of In 2010 we significantly enhanced our portfolio of eTools, a solution-based approach to our website is central to our a range of services aimed at providing our customers with EDE proposition.
The web, and element14 in particular, is increased transaction efficiency.
Enhancements included where our customers research and communicate on new the addition of eQuotes, our complete online quoting technologies, discuss and review products and interact solution, as well as the global release of iBuy, our free with each other on design complexities and decisions.
The rapid adoption By recognising, valuing and supporting that usage we levels that these tools have received are indicative of firmly believe we have begun to differentiate our business how strongly this type of innovation resonates with our and proposition.
Our EDE customer experience is built on: EnvIronMEntal InFluEncEs Ease of identification, selection and ordering from a choice of channels including call centres, web, field Environmental legislation in the electronics industry is a sales teams and printed catalogues.
 field which presents a number of challenges for our customers and our suppliers.
Web fundamentals of speed, simplicity of use and search capability.
The RoHS legislation restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in Electrical and Electronic An online community combining industry collaboration Equipment EEE and in November of this year and design resources into a web 2.0 environment.
amendments to the legislation were proposed to extend the scope of RoHS to all EEE, include other hazardous Broad in-stock product portfolio that includes the substances and offer clarity on certain definitions that will majority of the worlds leading suppliers and latest in turn pull more products into scope.
34 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review: Markets Markets continued Fast and highly reliable logistics model.
Suppliers benefit from: Full suite of technical information and data sheets.
Seeding of the latest technologies to design engineers globally.
Value-adding services such as technical support, legislation guidance and design software and solutions.
Accelerating the time-to-market for new technologies through web-based real-time New Product Introduction Reduced transaction costs through efficient processes NPI programmes.
such as eProcurement and iBuy.
Insightful data on emerging technologies and evolving The customer experience demanded by our MRO customer trends from a suite of sophisticated web customer base is also service led, meaning much of our analytics.
EDE work can be leveraged to significantly enhance our MRO customer proposition.
Maintenance and repair Customer acquisition and life cycle management engineers require accurate technical information to programmes in new and emerging markets managed provide confidence in product selection, superior logistics by local knowledgeable teams.
and multi-channel capabilities that allow them to transact Collaboration within element14 eCommunity where at anytime, from any location.
EDEs access all the technical information, products, software and technology solutions they need to complete their designs.
Global product marketing activities, with multi-channel The expectations of high performance solutions-based marketing across 44 transactional employees starts at the top, and is websites.
The Company holds all to Innovative global eSupplier strategy that is aligned to engineers needs for rich web-centric content.
that standard, and that standard of Premier Fast and reliable distribution from local stock, close Farnell is known throughout the electronics to the customer for high service small quantity service industry one of credibility and operating excellence.
at a high and ethical level.
Employee We are committed to ensuring that our product offering is tailored to our customer base.
It is our intention to Mark Bindas, General Sales Manager continue to add further suppliers and products into our Newark North America stocked inventory to enhance our product portfolio for the suPPlIErs EDE customer and develop our MRO product offering for the profitable MRO market segments.
Our MDD constitutes a powerful marketing and support capability for our franchised supplier partners to reach As an innovative distribution partner, our suppliers end users and, specifically, to reach EDEs around the understand that they can expect a strong high service world.
The Division has the ability to seed the proposition on their behalf, wherever their product or design side of the market with suppliers innovative information can meet a customers needs.
new components and supporting design information.
This seeding of new technologies and design information to the design engineering community is particularly valuable to suppliers since components specified in the The role of distribution is going to change.
early phase of a design will be required in large volumes when that design goes into production.
I think in the past, for information on new Our multi-channel approach to the market is an effective products, people were only coming to means of ensuring that our large, dispersed and global the manufacturers websites.
That, as customer base can reach us however, wherever and whenever they want to.
The nature of element14 presents a result of what I have seen here, is not exciting opportunities for suppliers to further understand going to continue, so in distribution the emerging trends within their end markets and the choices customers are making in the earliest phases I can see a clearly defined path for of design.
Premier Farnell to grow their business Through our online community we offer suppliers the and our business.
Supplier ability to communicate and engage with their target customer base.
The community can also provide them Director of Global Internet Marketing Vishay with insightful data to help them better understand the desires of EDE and MRO users of their products.
