16 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Europe Performance in the UK has been Strong performance in our Personal strong as a result of excellent brand innovation across the portfolio of Imperial Care category during the year despite Leather, Carex, Original Source, Charles Worthington and The Sanctuary.
This is the continued competitive pressure despite the trading environment remaining difficult with high levels of promotional and difficult trading conditions.
This activity in the retailers and an uncertain consumer outlook.
success can be attributed to the Imperial Leather, the largest brand in continued focus and innovation in the the UK portfolio, continues to deliver innovative products in bar soap, handwash core brands.
The newest range recently launched, Imperial Leather Skin Kind, is a range of shower gels Regional highlights: developed for sensitive skin but with a unique formula that allows fragrance to Strong growth in UK profitability delivered through be added unlike other products in the an effective brand renovation programme and sensitive skin category.
A media campaign has just started including national TV despite an uncertain consumer outlook.
Continued progress in Poland through a particular Original Source continues to perform well focus on Personal Wash. with a loyal consumer base supported in particular by sponsorship of high A good start to the year in Greece although trading performance sports events such as in the second half became more difficult due to Mountain Mayhem.
Carex continues to be the UKs leading antibacterial the deteriorating economic environment.
handwash and is currently being relaunched in an exciting new design and with a new unique formula for faster germ kill.
The Charles Worthington haircare brand has maintained its number two position in the competitive professional haircare category through innovative product launches such as the Front Row high performance styling range.
The core Results range is also being relaunched in attractive new packaging.
The Sanctuary continues to perform well with product range extensions including new premium products and an exciting new skincare range.
The spa at Covent Garden has also continued to perform well despite the economic conditions, with visitor numbers close to capacity.
During Sanctuary Skincare the year a high street spa in Richmond The Sanctuary skincare range is used was acquired as part of the City Spa in the spa within The Sanctuarys own concept to extend the reach of the brand treatments.
The extensive range provides to consumers.
Two further units were spa quality products so women can enjoy secured in Cambridge and in Bristol, and the experience and results of a spa facial will open as Sanctuary Spas during the at home.
PZ Cussons Plc 17 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Revenue m Operating profit m 46.2 288.1 280.8 40.9 235.8 217.8 214.2 32.6 30.3 22.6 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Carex The Carex range is the UKs leading antibacterial handwash and has been rigorously tested to ensure that they not only kill 99.9% of bacteria but are also kind to hands.
The range has recently been launched in other markets in the Group including Poland, Indonesia and Thailand.
Also in the UK, a partnership with Ecolab In Greece, profitability was lower than is being developed which has initially seen the previous year due to the deteriorating Imperial Leather and Carex supplied into economic conditions in the second half.
branded dispensers in Premier Inn and Whilst olive oil sales were lower than Holiday Inn hotel rooms.
the previous year, good progress has been made in the newer categories of The Personal Wash Centre of Excellence margarine, butter and cheese.
at Agecroft has operated well during the year with Original Source production now brought in-house following the installation of a fifth manufacturing line.
Finally in the UK, the Group moved into its new Head Office at Manchester Business Park, adjacent to Manchester Minerva Horio Airport, providing a modern and innovative The brand that brings us close to the environment for the future.
values of the Greek village and traditional Greek diet.
The product range has Profitability in Poland is ahead of last year recently been extended to include new primarily as a result of strong sales of E butter varieties in addition to the olive oil, laundry powders and fabric conditioners.
Luksja bar soap and shower gel also continues to perform well via utilisation of the Imperial Leather innovation developed in the UK, with Luksja Skin Kind currently being launched into the market.
18 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Building our success Selected markets The Personal Wash market is the main focus of our UK operation.
The market is developed, competitive and has high levels of consumer promotion and this means that we have to keep constant focus on the market and its changing dynamics so that we can react speedily to these changes and keep at the forefront of the market.
This real local market focus and the ability of the business to proactively change and react quickly has ensured that we retain our number one position in this market.
Leading brands World class supply chain We aim to make our brands The Groups personal wash network extraordinary by ensuring that is led by the UK and serves to each has a clear consumer benefit create excellence in all aspects of and point of difference versus the the Groups personal wash offering competition.
ensuring that innovation and technology can be rapidly transferred Imperial Leather is our brand leader and across the Group.
innovative changes and renovation of the brand and its sub categories ensures With the Groups new R&D and fragrance that the brand remains in a leading facility co-located on the same site as the position.
The recent launch of Imperial UK liquids factory, the UK personal wash Leather SkinKind has been in response supply chain has the agility to respond to an unsatisfied consumer group, the quickly to consumer-led changes and Neutraliser market.
This consumer to drive innovation and technological segment is growing fast and we have advances from concept through to utilised our expertise in personal wash commercial production.
and fragrance to launch the first mass market allergen free fragranced range of shower gels.
PZ Cussons Plc 19 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Great team of people The personal wash network ensures that the best talent from throughout the Group both UK and overseas has been brought together to work on personal wash from innovation right through to end user supply.
This team focus is proving extremely successful not only in the UK where the network is led, but also in driving the innovation pipeline throughout the Group.
SkinKind The new SkinKind range by Imperial Leather is a set of bath products and shower gels specifically designed for those with sensitive skin.
They are available in three varieties Hydrate, Refresh and Restore each with its own distinctive fragrance.
