PZ Cussons Plc 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Asia In Australia, revenue and profitability were Continued focus on core brands and ahead of the prior year as a result of good execution of brand strategy in market.
the utilisation of expertise from across New launches have taken place both in Dish Care Morning Fresh and Fabric Care the Group has resulted in strong Radiant and Duo.
Development of the Personal Wash category has continued revenue and profitability growth through new launches under the Cussons Pure brand, whilst Original Source will be throughout the region.
launched into the market for the first time in November.
Regional highlights: In Indonesia, further extension of the number one position in the Baby Care Increase in profitability across Australia, Indonesia category has resulted in revenue and profitability ahead of last year.
This has and the Middle East.
been driven by new product launches Growth achieved through the roll out of both local across both the core Cussons Baby range and the more premium Cussons and group-wide innovation pipeline.
A major relaunch of the Cussons Baby range is taking place shortly to maintain the positive momentum behind the brand.
During the year, Carex was launched into the market to capitalise on heightened awareness of hand hygiene and initial sales have been encouraging.
Overall sales and profitability of the other Asian units, Thailand and the Middle East, were ahead of the prior year.
Constant innovation and improvement of products ensures that this market position is retained and the brand also has a successful range of dishwasher detergents.
14 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Building our success Selected markets Indonesia has the fourth largest population in the world with over 4.2 million babies being born annually.
There is therefore a huge opportunity for the Group to further develop the existing leading position in this large and growing market.
We are currently exploring other opportunities to extend our offerings in this market.
PZ Cussons Plc 15 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Great team of people World class supply chain Each of the 1,600 members of our Indonesia has a network of 24 depots Indonesian team epitomise the spirit spread across the geographically of our CANDO values.
There is a strong work ethic and the This network of depots is a key strength team are consistently striving to improve, of the business and allows the businesss in all aspects of their work.
The team wide product portfolio to be effectively have strong commercial expertise and and efficiently distributed across as a result lead the Groups Baby Care Indonesia in order that it can reach the network.
Through this, their skills and traditional and modern markets that experience can be leveraged to help lead are supplied.
other baby markets in the PZC world.
Leading brands Cussons Baby is currently the market leader in Indonesia.
The Cussons Baby brand is currently being re-launched in order to ensure that the brand retains and builds upon its aspirational, innovative and iconic qualities.
Cussons First Years, targeting children aged 1 to 4 years, is also continuing to establish itself in the market with a premium offering, which also includes a range for mothers.
The launch will involve a new bottle shape which is more modern and unique than the original design, with contemporary, bright and attractive packaging to maximise shelf impact.
This relaunch will be supported by an integrated advertising campaign.
Cussons Baby Cussons Baby is the market leader in the Indonesia baby market and offers a wide range of products ranging from soaps, lotions, shampoos, talcum powder and rubs.
