PZ Cussons Plc 09 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Africa In Nigeria, the political environment is Focus on the core categories within now stable following the death of the former President and the appointment the Personal and Home Care markets of the Vice-President as President a few months ago.
Elections are currently has ensured that the region has scheduled for Spring 2011 and whilst the medium to long-term political outlook is delivered another year of profitable healthy, some short-term risk of disruption from the election process exists towards growth.
Effective renovation of key the end of the 2011 financial year.
brands and continued focus on these Economically, a strengthening of banking controls in the second quarter core categories has ensured that they led to a short-term liquidity squeeze with distributors, mainly of higher value have retained their leading positions electrical goods, unable to access previous levels of credit for working during the year.
At a macro level, the Naira US$ exchange rate has been stable throughout the year and foreign exchange reserves Regional highlights: should remain sustainable with the oil price at current levels.
The outlook for the Nigeria politically stable ahead of elections economy remains healthy with positive scheduled for Spring 2011.
Operating profit increased despite negative During the year, the Groups holding in its currency impact and a short-term liquidity squeeze listed Nigerian subsidiary was increased from 64.0% to 66.1% at a cost of 6.8m.
which affected revenue and profitability in the second quarter.
Nutrition joint venture continues to trade profitably with new UHT factory performing well.
39 million investment programme in Nigeria completed on schedule.
Revenue m Operating profit m 42.2 Robb 39.5 358.7 Robb is Nigerias leading brand of 325.2 33.6 medicated ointment with products for 268.4 the entire family.
Recently it has been 26.1 25.1 220.7 re-launched and three new variants 194.7 were added to the Robb family: Robb Junior, specifically developed for children, Robb Super Intense Heat and Robb 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Tarzan Herbal.
10 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Building our success Africa Selected markets We have a long standing presence in the Nigerian Fabric Care market.
Traditionally this market had consisted of laundry bar products.
The market has developed over the past decade and powdered formats are becoming more widely accepted and used.
The market for bulk powders that are split into smaller volumes by distributors in the market place has grown over the past few years and now more premium packaged formats are increasing in popularity as disposable income increases in line with growth in the Nigerian economy.
The new powder formats will also allow the Group to enter into other African markets.
Leading brands In Africa, we have several leading Fabric Care brands with offerings in the economy, mid and premium segments.
Brands are continuously reviewed and renovated to ensure that the leading positions are maintained and include ZIP, Jet, Canoe, Rex and Ushindi.
ZIP is a key strategic brand for our Nigerian Fabric Care category, offering the consumer outstanding brightness and whiteness at an everyday affordable price.
The Canoe laundry bar has been re-launched in Nigeria as a more premium laundry bar offering.
In Kenya we have recently extended Ushindi from a laundry bar into the laundry powder market, highlighting its mild and gentle properties.
PZ Cussons Plc 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Great team of people A great team of people is vital to ensure the continued development of the business.
The Fabric Care network ensures that local teams can both contribute to and draw from the Groups knowledge and expertise in Fabric Care and will enable Nigeria to draw upon technological and innovative advances from other markets and adapt these for local use.
World class supply chain The 39 million investment in Nigeria Project Unity is now complete and the benefits of this investment are now being seen.
The network of 26 depots is now serviced by a new world class national distribution centre the first of its kind in Nigeria and the new detergent tower is in the process of being commissioned.
The new detergent tower will give increased capacity as well as manufacturing efficiencies and an increase in the quality and range of products manufactured with less impact on the environment.
ZIP ZIP is a white specialist detergent powder, the first and presently only detergent with this distinctive proposition in the Nigerian market and is marketed as ZIP for perfect whites.
It has a unique Opti-bleach system that makes white clothes whiter and brighter and all this is offered to consumers at an everyday affordable price.
12 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Africa continued In Personal Care and Home Care, focus continues to be successfully developed.
on the core categories of Skin Care, In Harefield, the subsidiary incorporated Hair Care, Baby Care, Medicaments and last year to sell products in adjacent Fabric Care has ensured another year of categories, sales of fuel powered profitable growth.
In particular, effective generators have been strong and ahead renovation of our Personal Care brands of the prior year.
Premier, Joy, Venus, Robb and Cussons Baby and our Home Care brands Rex, ZIP, In Nutrition, the joint venture with Glanbia Canoe and Jet has reinforced their leading returned to profitability in the year positions in these growing categories.
following the losses incurred last year as a result of high milk prices.
The new In Electricals, the HPZ joint venture with UHT factory was commissioned at the Haier suffered poor sales in the second beginning of the year with encouraging quarter as a result of the liquidity squeeze first year sales of the new Tetra Pak format previously mentioned.
Since then, sales products sold under the Nunu, Bliss and Nunu levels have recovered to pre-squeeze Yo!
Further new product launches Nunu was first introduced to the market levels as liquidity has returned to the such as Bliss Ice Tea are planned.
in powder and evaporated milk formats market.
Haier Thermocool continues have recently been launched in ready to hold the number one market share Ghana and Kenya have continued to to drink UHT formats.
Nunu is being position in both refrigerators and freezers perform well with profitability ahead of the positioned towards the more premium with a premium price position being same period last year.
end of the milk market as the specialist maintained.
The wider product range of childrens nutritional product geared to air-conditioners and brown goods also providing optimum nutritional wellbeing to children, with offerings in the dairy and non-dairy categories.
Venus Venus offers a complete range of haircare products to suit every need and style for every occasion.
