for prickly heat and Krack medicated skin The Group has a number of local market Net revenue grew by 7% constant to treatment for cracked heels.
The Group expects positions in Laundry Detergents and Fabric 8,453m.
Adjusted operating profit up 15% to complete the acquisition of Paras during the Softeners for example, in Spain, Italy, certain constant to 2,231m.
Total dividends paid of first half of 2011.
East European markets and Korea.
Group also has a small private label business, THE GROUPS BRAND PORTFOLIO AND the majority of which provides Laundry MARKET POSITION Detergents to major multi-national retailers This review for the financial year ended The Group benefits from many very strong in Europe.
31 December 2010 conforms to the market positions for its brand portfolio.
Business Review required under the Excluding Laundry Detergents and Fabric Surface Care Companies Act 2006.
It should be read in Softeners, the Group is the world market leader No.
1 worldwide in the overall Surface Care conjunction with the rest of this annual in household cleaning products and has leading category due to leading positions across report, the Groups latest Sustainability positions in selected health & personal care disinfectant cleaners, non-disinfectant all Report and the Groups website categories.
These positions derive from the purpose cleaners, lavatory care, speciality www.
strength of the Groups leading brands, cleaners and polishes waxes.
described as Powerbrands, which are the NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES OF No.
1 worldwide in disinfectant cleaners flagship brands in the Groups five major THE BUSINESS products which both clean and disinfect categories and on which the Group focuses the Reckitt Benckiser is one of the worlds leading surfaces, killing 99.9% of germs with Lysol majority of its efforts and investment.
The manufacturers and marketers of branded in North America and the Surface Care Group also has other brands and market products in Household Cleaning and Health & products in the Dettol range outside North positions that are less of a strategic focus, but Personal Care, selling a comprehensive range America.
which play a role as scale builders in local through over 60 operating companies into markets.
1 worldwide in lavatory care with Lysol in around 180 countries.
In 2010, approximately North America and Harpic across Europe and three quarters of net revenue was generated by These leading positions include: Developing Markets.
brands that are either market leader or ranked Health & Personal Care second in their markets.
The Groups principal The Group has a number of local leading The Health & Personal Care category consists of product categories are listed below.
brands in non-disinfectant all purpose products that relieve or solve common personal cleaners, speciality cleaners and polishes Reckitt Benckisers vision is to deliver better and health problems.
The Groups strength in waxes.
consumer solutions in household cleaning and this category was further enhanced by the health & personal care for the ultimate purpose acquisition of SSL on 29 October 2010.
Home Care of creating shareholder value.
Home Care consists of Air Care, Pest Control No.
1 worldwide in Antiseptic Liquids with and Shoe Care.
The strategy of the business is described in Dettol.
detail in the Chief Executives statement.
2 worldwide in Air Care with Air Wick.
1 worldwide in Depilatory products with In summary: Veet.
1 worldwide in Pest Control with Have a disproportionate focus on our 19 Mortein, the Groups international brand, No.
1 worldwide in Medicated Sore Throat Powerbrands to realise our vision and drive supported by local brand franchises like products with Strepsils.
above industry average growth to strengthen d-Con in North America.
1 worldwide in condoms for both safe No.
2 worldwide in Shoe Care with such and more pleasurable sex, with Durex and Transform the above industry average net brands as Cherry Blossom and Nugget.
revenue growth into attractive profits and Dishwashing cash flow.
2 worldwide in Cold Flu including No.
1 worldwide in Automatic Dishwashing decongestants with Mucinex.
The Group also seeks to complement these products used in automatic dishwashers objectives with strategically and financially No.
3 worldwide in Acne treatment with with Finish.
The Group also has some small, local Group announced the acquisition of SSL Leading positions in Analgesics and Upper positions in the declining manual International plc SSL and proposed acquisition Gastro-Intestinal products in Europe and dishwashing market.
of Paras Pharmaceuticals Limited Paras.
These Australia with Nurofen and Gaviscon.
transactions provide a step change in the Other Groups global Health & Personal Care business, Leading positions in Footcare and comfort The Group also has two non-strategic a key driver of the Groups net revenue and footwear in many markets outside North businesses: Food and Pharmaceuticals.
America and Latin America, with Scholl.
The Company owns a largely North The acquisition of SSL adds two new The Group also has local leading positions in American Food business, the principal brands Powerbrands with good further growth Denture Care, Dry Skin Care and Cold Flu of which are Frenchs Mustard the No.
1 potential to the Groups portfolio, taking the products.
mustard and Franks Red Hot Sauce the total to 19.
Durex, in the Sexual Wellbeing No.
1 hot wing sauce in North America.
Fabric Care category, is the global number one condom No.
1 worldwide in Fabric Treatment Pharmaceuticals.
RB Pharmaceuticals RBP brand and Scholl is the market leader in the products to remove stains from clothes, is responsible for the development of the footcare category in many of the markets in carpets and upholstery with Vanish around Groups Subutex and Suboxone prescription which it is present.
The acquisition of SSL also the globe and Resolve Spray n Wash in drug business.
Both products are based on materially enhances the scale and critical mass North America.
buprenorphine for treatment of opiate of the Groups businesses in China and Japan, dependence.
Suboxone is a more advanced two key East Asian markets.
1 worldwide in Garment Care laundry product compared to Subutex, as it has cleaning products for delicate garments with The acquisition of Paras will create a material substantially better protection against abuse Woolite.
consumer healthcare business in India, with the by the opioid-dependent population.
In the addition of a number of strong and leading No.
1 worldwide in Water Softeners products US, Suboxone lost the exclusivity afforded by brands.
These are complementary to the to prevent destructive limescale build-up on its Orphan Drug Status on 8 October 2009.
Groups existing portfolio, and include such washing machines and laundry with Calgon.
Suboxone has received marketing approval products as Moov topical analgesic pain from the European Commission for ointment, DCold Cold Flu remedy, Dermicool treatment in the 27 countries of the 4 Reckitt Benckiser 2010 European Union, Norway and Iceland, with The Group competes, particularly in strongly developing markets offer higher economic data exclusivity until 2016. branded segments, through its focus on its growth potential.
leading position in higher growth categories.
It Further to an announcement on 19 March The Group structures its business through a is typically the market leader or a close follower, 2010, the majority of the sales, marketing matrix of a centralised Category Development this is a position obtained through its ability to and distribution rights to the , Global Sales organisation, Supply introduce new products whether improved or containing products Suboxone, Subutex and organisation and support functions Finance, newly developed supported by a rising and Temgesic were bought back by the Group, Human Resources and Information Services, substantial level of marketing, particularly starting 1 July 2010.
The rights apply to a combined with three Area organisations, media investment.
Much industry competition number of countries in Europe and the Rest Europe, North America & Australia, and focuses on competing claims for product of World.
The consideration for the rights Developing Markets, plus RBP.
The central performance rather than price or terms.
For this paid to Merck & Co. Inc. is approximately Category Development function, where reason, failure to introduce new products and 100m.
As a result, these countries are now appropriate supported by Global Sales, is gain acceptance thereof may significantly fully included by the Group.
responsible for Powerbrand strategies, brand impact the Groups operating results.
The equity programmes and best practices and new On 31 August 2010, the Group announced Group also encounters challenges to its product development including R&D and that it had received approval from the US leadership positions in markets, the defence consumer and market research, for Food and Drug Administration for its New against which requires significant marketing implementation by the Area organisation.
Drug Application to manufacture and market expenditure and promotional activity.
Suboxone The three geographical Areas are responsible The Groups products also compete with private sublingual film has been developed through for local execution of marketing and sales label products sold by major retail companies.
an exclusive agreement with MonoSol Rx, programmes: The Group competes with private label utilising its proprietary PharmFilm primarily through focusing on delivering Europe.
The Area covers the regions of technology, to deliver Suboxone in a innovative new products with real consumer Northern Europe UK, Ireland, Scandinavia, fast-dissolving sublingual film.
benefits, on which private label typically does Germany, Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland, As with all prescription drugs, the protection not focus, and by consistent marketing Southern Europe France, Belgium, Italy, of the business has a finite term unless investment to communicate the benefits of its Greece, Spain, Portugal and export business replaced with new treatments or forms.
As a brands direct to consumers, where private label and Eastern Europe Poland, Hungary, Czech result of the loss of exclusivity in the US, up is not advertised.
Republic Slovakia, Romania, Adriatics, Russia to 80% of the revenue and profit of the CIS, Turkey.
Technological change and product Suboxone tablet business in the US might be improvement can therefore be a key North America & Australia NAA.
The lost in the year following the launch of determinant of the Groups success.
Reckitt Area covers the markets of North America generic competitors, with the possibility of Benckisers success in introducing new and USA, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
However, in the improved products stems from its heavy focus event of generic competition to the Developing Markets.
The Area covers the on developing a pipeline of product innovation.
Suboxone tablet, the Group expects that the regions of Latin America Brazil, Mexico, The Group maintains a large category Suboxone sublingual film will help to Argentina and smaller markets, Africa development organisation, including market mitigate the impact thereof.
Middle East South Africa, Middle East, and consumer research, R&D and marketing Pakistan, East Africa, West Africa, South THE INDUSTRY, MARKET AND COMPETITIVE sales best practice, to fuel this pipeline and Asia India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Indonesia ENVIRONMENT share category success factors and learning.
and East Asia Korea, Hong Kong, China, The household cleaning and health & personal The Group invested 125m in R&D in 2010.
Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, care industry is generally characterised by While the Group believes R&D to be a key Japan.
steady growth in demand, with little variation contributor to innovative new products, it does due to macro-economic factors, particularly in not believe it to be the dominant performance The Supply function is responsible for all developed markets.
Some developing markets indicator for innovation success.
The Groups procurement raw and packaging materials and exhibit more volatile demand in reaction to success is demonstrated by the fact that around services, production and logistics globally, and macro-economic factors.
The principal drivers one third of its net revenue comes from is directly responsible for the operation of the of market growth in all markets are the rate of products launched over the last three years.
Groups 49 including SSL production facilities household formation and growth in the level of worldwide.
Approximately 91% of INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND disposable income, combined with demand for manufacturing and supply is through these 49 REGULATORY POSITION new products that offer improved performance sites around the world, with facilities located in The household cleaning and health & personal or greater convenience.
Europe 17 facilities, North America 5 care industry is heavily regulated by, inter alia, facilities, Australia and New Zealand 1 facility.
The industry is intensely competitive, with a the European Union, the United States The remaining facilities spread across Asia 18, comparatively small number of major multigovernment and individual country Latin America 4, and Africa Middle East 4 national competitors accounting for a large governments elsewhere.
Ingredients, include a small number of facilities in higher proportion of total global demand.
The Group manufacturing standards, labour standards, risk labour and social environments.
competes with numerous, well-established, product safety, marketing and advertising local, regional, national and international claims are all subject to detailed and developing Information Services is responsible for the companies, some of which are very large and regulation.
Groups global systems infrastructure and aggressively establish and defend their global systems, including the Groups chosen Reckitt Benckiser has operating companies in products, market shares and brands.
Principal Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system and over 60 countries and has sales in around 180 competitors include FMCG companies like its associated programmes.
At present, 68% of the Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive, Clorox, Groups net revenue derives from Europe, North The Group has a comprehensive set of policies S. C. Johnson, Henkel and Unilever, and such America and Australia New Zealand excluding and procedures designed to enforce and pharmaceutical companies as GlaxoSmithKline, Pharmaceuticals and SSL with the remainder protect its reputation and govern its business Johnson & Johnson, Novartis and Bayer, plus a coming mostly from semi-established or methods and practices.
These cover, inter alia, a number of strong local industry players.
The Group is expanding comprehensive Code of Conduct, an its operations in these semi-established Environment Policy, a Global Manufacturing economies which may bring increased risks Standard, a Product Safety Policy including from greater economic volatility, additional compliance with all regulatory requirements, governmental burden and regulation, political and product quality.
Internal controls on instability and local labour conditions.
Many environmental, social, governance ESG Reckitt Benckiser 2010 5 Business review 2010 continued matters and reputational risk are further The Group closely monitors and tracks its Top The Group has many suppliers.
The suppliers outlined in pages 7 and 14 of this report.
400 international managers T400, the core are predominantly international chemical and management team of the business.
The Group sources most RESOURCES diverse group, consisting of almost 40 of its supplies through its global purchasing The major resources required by the business nationalities.
Over 60% of the T400 is working function, which acts as its primary interface are an adequate supply of the raw and in a country that is not their original domicile, with its suppliers.
packaging materials consumed by the Groups consistent with the Groups policy to develop a products and the necessary funds for The principal risk factors that may be multi-national management team.
Turnover developing new products and reinvestment in considered in relation to the Group are, in the within this T400 group in 2010 was 11.6%, advertising and promoting those brands.
The opinion of the Directors: which the Group considers satisfactory given other principal resource is management.
the need to retain high-quality management Market risks The Group considers that its primary raw offset by the benefits of refreshing the team Demand for the Groups products may be materials, such as bulk chemicals including a with new talent.
2010 saw 59 promotions, 56 adversely affected by changes in consumer number of petrochemicals, plastics, pulp, metal moves and ten external recruits.
cans etc, are generally in adequate supply ended the year with a low level of vacancies Customers, mainly large retailers, may decide globally.
The cost of these items fluctuates from within the T400 of 15, or around 3.4% of the to fide-list the Groups brands, or not time to time but not at levels that seriously measured group.
participate in the active promotion of the impinge on the ability of the Group to supply There is a comprehensive set of policies brands through in-store programmes.
its products or generate profit.
The Group is governing employment and employees to profitable and cash generative, even after Competition may reduce the Groups market ensure that the Group remains an attractive reinvesting in marketing, specifically media, at shares and margins.
The Group is committed to the levels well above the industry average.
The principle of equal opportunity in employment: Competition from private label and Group therefore believes that its ability to no applicant or employee receives less unbranded products may intensify.
reinvest in supporting and building its brands is favourable treatment on the grounds of a significant competitive advantage.
The Group aims to mitigate market risks nationality, age, gender, religion or disability.
It through active category, brand and customer Supply constraints do exist in the Groups is essential to the continued improvement in relationship management programmes supply chain from time to time.
These normally efficiency and productivity that each employee supported by ongoing investment into new arise due to unexpected demand for new understands the Groups strategies, policies and product development.
products or the time delay involved in stepping procedures.
Open and regular communication up production of new items to the levels with employees at all levels is an essential part The expiry of the Groups exclusive licence for required to supply many millions of units of the management process.
A continuing Suboxone in the United States in 2009 and internationally.
The Groups supply chain is programme of training and development in the rest of the world in 2016 could expose deliberately relatively well spread in terms of reinforces the Groups commitment to employee the business to competition from generic geography and technology, such that the involvement.
The Board encourages employees variants.
reliance on any one facility is minimised.
to become shareholders and participate in the The Group has developed a new patented However, there are a number of facilities that employee share ownership schemes.
delivery method for this product which will remain critical to the Groups supply chain The Group relies on its brand names and partially mitigate the risk of the expected entry where major interruption to normal working intellectual property.
All of the Groups major of generic variants to the market.
could involve disruption to supply.
The Groups brand names are protected by nationally or suppliers are similarly deliberately well spread in Operational risks internationally registered trademarks.
The terms of geography and supplied items, but The Groups new product pipeline may not Group also maintains patents or other there are nonetheless some risks to continuity generate consumer-relevant innovation and protection for its significant product of supply arising from some specialised improvement to fuel growth and build formulations, designs and processing methods.
suppliers both of raw materials and of third market shares.
The Group aggressively monitors these party manufactured items.
protections and pursues any apparent The Group has a well established new product The supply of strong management for the infringements.
development process in place which includes Group remains more than adequate.
This is the close monitoring of market trends and RELATIONSHIPS AND PRINCIPAL RISKS attributable to the Groups culture and its identification of relevant consumer insights.
The Groups critical external relationships are highly performance-oriented remuneration Prior to the wider roll out of new products, with its major customers, typically the large policy which is based on paying for excellent each undergoes a strict process of testing grocery, mass market, multiple retailers, and its performance.
The Group believes that its ability together with commercial trials in selected suppliers of raw and packaging materials and to attract and retain the excellent management test markets.
it needs to continue its success depends Key management may leave, or management critically on this system.
The Group trains and The Groups customer base is diverse, with no turnover may significantly increase.
develops its management pipeline through single customer accounting for more than 10% formal training programmes focusing on three of net revenue, and the top ten customers only The Group structures its employee reward areas leadership skills, functional skills and accounting for between one quarter and one programme to attract and retain the best general skills and through a deliberate policy third of total net revenue.
The Group also has a formal succession of training on the job.
The Group has 22 formal becoming more concentrated and more planning process in place with plans being training modules for middle management and multi-national, increasing demands on the reviewed and updated regularly for key Top 400 managers.
During 2010, the Group ran Groups service levels.
In addition, many management positions.
over 80 courses on these modules, training over retailers compete with the Groups products Information technology systems may be 1,000 people.
Management is international, with their own private label offerings.
The disrupted or may fail, interfering with the and is trained through rotation in international Group maintains its relationship with its Groups ability to conduct its business.
postings both in countries and in the Groups principal retail customers through the efforts of central functions.
Succession planning is a its dedicated sales force, including key account The Group has disaster recovery plans in critical management discipline and is reviewed directors, and its Global Sales organisation place which are tested periodically and at least annually at the full Board and the specifically set up to manage its interface with invests in appropriate anti virus software and Executive Committee.
the growth of international retailers.
other security measures to safeguard against this threat.
6 Reckitt Benckiser 2010 Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal In summary the principal ESG risks identified by number of potentially reputation-affecting and regulatory environment could increase the Group are: issues such as employee health & safety at work liabilities or limit business activities.
and how the Group is addressing those issues, Industry sector and product safety regulatory and which is independently assured.
The Groups Code of Conduct which covers risks.
The household products and health & commercial and ethical practices has been personal cares sectors have a number of In summary, environmental, employee and rolled-out across its subsidiaries and is updated product and ingredient risks relating to social & community issues identified by the where changes to the legal and regulatory ongoing developments in ingredient Group are: product ingredient regulation and environment require it.
Online training on the regulation and concerns voiced over the specifically REACh the European framework for Code of Conduct is undertaken by employees potential long-term effects of household the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and annually.
The Group also has regulatory and chemicals and OTC over-the-counter drug restriction of Chemicals, which is discussed in legal specialists at a Group, regional and local ingredients on human health and the the Report of the Directors on page 14: product level who are responsible for setting policies environment.
quality safety and specifically the Groups and ensuring that employees are aware of, and arrangements for managing product quality Supply chain risks.
Most product and raw comply with, laws and regulations relevant to such as to prevent large scale sub-standard material supply chains present a number of their roles.
quality events and its arrangements to ensure potential reputational risks relating to: labour that its products are both suitable and safe for Operating results may be affected by standards: raw material sourcing: and the their intended use, which are discussed in the increased costs resulting from shortages of social, ethical and environmental Report of the Directors on page 14: in terms of raw materials.
performance of third party manufacturers the environment, the carbon footprint of its and other suppliers.
Significant movement in the exchange rates products, which is described below: and, in in which the Group purchases its raw Product quality risks.
Failures in product terms of the impact of the Groups business on material and packaging may limit the Groups quality controls could potentially lead to the environment, the greenhouse gas GHG ability to expand margins.
damage to the reputation of, and trust, in emissions originating from its direct operations the Groups brands.
and specifically energy use at its global The Group has well established cost savings manufacturing operations.
Due to the Groups initiatives in place and continues to look for The Group has a full set of policies, industry sectors and product categories the cost effective sources of raw materials and the programmes and control arrangements, GHG emissions originating from energy use at most efficient production processes.
Forward building on its central Code of Conduct, that its direct operations are of medium-to-low contracts are also entered into, where address the full range of ESG matters and impact in comparison to those of other appropriate, to hedge against movements in reputational risks.
The Code itself is the subject similarly-sized companies, as assessed for commodity prices and exchange rates.
of an annual training and awareness example in recent reports of the independent programme, and is covered by an annual review Unfavourable economic or business Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, www.
and certification process carried out by Internal conditions may adversely affect or disrupt net : specifically, the GHG emissions from the Audit and the Legal Department.
The Board operations in countries in which the Groups global manufacturing operations circa.
holds a formal review of ESG matters at least Group operates.
Additionally, the Group has been proactive in A major supplier or customer could Financial risks managing the energy use of its direct experience financial difficulties, impinging on The Group has a number of risk exposures in operations so as to continually reduce its the Groups normal course of business.
relation to tax, treasury, financial controls and associated GHG emissions since 2000: Business continuity plans are in place reporting that are principally managed through specifically, the Group reduced the GHG throughout the Group which aim to minimise the implementation of explicit policies, emissions from its global manufacturing the effects of operational disruption.
procedures and controls detailed in the Groups facilities energy use between 2000 and 2009 finance manual.
These are subject to regular by 40% per unit of production and by 23% in The Group may not be able to integrate review by senior management, internal and absolute terms.
acquisitions and achieve the expected external audit.
See page 10 for more detail of synergies and projected growth.
The Group has taken a leadership position with how financial risks are mitigated.
regard to its products carbon footprint, by The Group establishes cross functional teams at Environmental matters, employees and seeking to understand, measure and reduce the a Group, regional and local level to manage the social and community issues GHG emissions generated by all stages in the integration of new acquisitions and monitor the In line with the requirements of the Companies product lifecycle for its global product portfolio, delivery of synergies.
Regular progress updates Act 2006, a rationale has been developed and and including amongst other things: the raw are provided to the Executive Committee.
The a review undertaken to determine what and packaging materials provided by its Group has a history of effectively integrating information to include in this Report as suppliers: the Groups own direct acquisitions.
necessary for an understanding of the manufacturing and other operations: Environmental, social and governance development, performance and position of the transportation of both raw materials and ESG matters and reputational risks business of the Group relating to environmental finished products: the retail sale of its products: Another group of risks concern the reputation matters including the impact of the Groups consumers use of its products: and the of the Group and its brands, but are reduced by business on the environment, its employees, disposal recycling of those products and their the fact that the Group and its brands are not and social & community issues.
The Group publicly launched this necessarily connected in the mind of this information is provided here with further initiative in November 2007, comprising its consumers.
information provided in other sections of the Carbon20 programme and the target to reduce Business Review and in the Report of the its global products carbon footprint across Risks from the perspective of ESG matters and Directors on page 14. their complete lifecycle by 20% per dose by reputation are discussed in the Report of the 2020 versus a 2007 baseline Directors on page 14.
These should be read in Overall, environmental, social and governance www.
conjunction with the Groups annual matters and reputational risk are addressed in Sustainability Reports available on the Groups the Report of the Directors on page 14, with By 2009, the second year of the Groups website at www.
com which address a regard to employees on page 13 and internal Carbon20 programme, 3 million tonnes of CO 2 number of potentially reputation-affecting ESG control in the Corporate Governance report on were avoided as a result of a 11% reduction matters such as employee health & safety at pages 19 and 20.
These should be read in per dose in the carbon impact of the Groups work and how the Group is addressing such conjunction with the Groups latest global products lifecycle: this is similar to matters, and which are independently assured.
Sustainability Report available on the Groups taking around one million cars off the road.
com which addresses a This 11% reduction in carbon emissions per Reckitt Benckiser 2010 7 Business review 2010 continued dose means the Group has achieved more than was up 17% 15% constant.
Diluted Suboxone prescription drug business grew half of its Carbon20 target for 2020 in the earnings per share of 213.8 pence was 10% 24% to 737m.
These buprenorphine-based second year of the programme.
higher on a reported basis: on an adjusted products are used to treat opiate dependence.
diluted basis, the growth was 16% to Growth was driven by an increase in the In January 2009, the Group launched Our 226.5 pence.
number of patients treated with Suboxone in Home Our Planet, an international consumer the US and price increases.
The net revenue communication programme across many of its OPERATING SEGMENT ANALYSIS AT performance was further helped by the full major brands.
Our Home Our Planet aims to CONSTANT EXCHANGE inclusion of a number of countries in Europe change consumer behaviour by informing Europe 41% of net revenue and Rest of World from 1 July 2010, as a result consumers how they can reduce their impact 2010 total net revenue decreased -1% 0% of the majority of sales, marketing and on the environment when using the Groups like-for-like to 3,429m, with growth coming distribution rights to the , for example by reducing domestic mainly in Health & Personal Care, Home Care containing products Suboxone, Subutex and energy and water use, whilst also saving money and Dishwashing.
In Health & Personal Care, Temgesic being bought back by the Group.
on their household bills the launch of the No-Touch Hand Soap System www.
For the full year, the operating margin improved contributed to growth in Dettol, with a further by 890bp to 72.0%.
Operating profit was As noted above regarding ESG matters and contribution from Nurofen, Gaviscon and 531m, an increase of 37%.
reputational risks: the Group has a full set of Strepsils.
The increase in Home Care was policies, programmes and control helped by the launch of Air Wick Aqua Mist Suboxone has data exclusivity in Europe until arrangements, building on its central Code of and Air Wick Ribbons, with the growth in 2016: in the US, Suboxone lost the exclusivity Conduct, that addresses the full range of ESG Dishwashing coming from the continued afforded by its Orphan Drug Status on 8 matters and reputational risks.
The Code is the success of Quantum.
The result in Fabric Care October 2009.
As a result of the loss of subject of an annual training and awareness was impacted by increased competitive activity exclusivity in the US, up to 80% of the programme, and is covered by an annual review for Vanish, and weakness in Water Softeners revenues and profits of the Suboxone tablet and certification process carried out by Internal and Laundry Detergents.
business might be lost in the year following the Audit and the Legal Department.
The Board launch of generic competitors, with the For the full year, the operating margin was holds a formal review of ESG matters at possibility of further erosion thereafter.
To 110bp above last year at 24.0%, with least annually.
mitigate this potential impact, RBP introduced operating profit of 823m.
Suboxone sublingual film in September 2010, a PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS IN 2010 North America & Australia 27% of net patent-protected and patient-preferred delivery 2010 net revenue increased 9% 7% revenue system.
At the end of 2010, the market volume constant to 8,453m, with like-for-like growth 2010 total net revenue increased 2% 3% share for the sublingual film was 25%, and at of 6% for the Group excluding SSL and 5% like-for-like to 2,313m, with growth coming this level it would represent c. 23% of the total like-for-like for the base business.
SSL mainly in Health & Personal Care, Surface Care, RBP US net revenue approximately 138m on contributed 90m to the full year.
The launch of the an annualised basis.
Where appropriate the term base business Lysol No-Touch Hand Soap System drove Further to an announcement on 19 March represents the Europe, North America & growth in Health & Personal Care, while the 2010, the majority of the sales, marketing and Australia and Developing Markets geographical result in Surface Care was supported by the distribution rights to the buprenorphineareas and excludes RBP and SSL.
The launch of Air Wick containing products Suboxone, Subutex and Aqua Mist and Air Wick Ribbons contributed to The gross margin improved by 40bp to Temgesic were bought back by the Group, the performance in Home Care, with Quantum 60.6%, largely as a result of input cost savings, starting 1 July 2010.
The rights apply to a supporting the increase in Dishwashing.
benefits from cost optimisation programmes number of countries in Europe and the Rest of and a positive transaction impact from foreign Food increased as a result of a very good World.
The consideration for the rights paid to exchange, partially offset by higher promotional performance across the consumer portfolio, in Merck is approximately 100m.
Total marketing was higher, and pure particular further growth for Frenchs Yellow these countries are now fully included by media spend rose 5% 3% constant to a Mustard, Frenchs Fried Onions and Franks Red the Group.
On an adjusted Hot Sauce, and boosted by new variants for On 31 August 2010, the Group announced basis, operating profit was ahead 18% 15% these franchises.
that it had received approval from the US Food constant, with the adjusted operating margin For the full year, operating profit increased and Drug Administration for its New Drug up 200bp to 26.4% due to gross margin 13% to 599m: the operating margin was Application to manufacture and market expansion and operating cost efficiencies.
Suboxone sublingual Operating profit as reported was 2,130m, film has been developed through an exclusive 13% higher than last year 10% constant Developing Markets 22% of net revenue agreement with MonoSol Rx, utilising its owing to an exceptional pre-tax charge of 2010 net revenue was ahead 18% to proprietary PharmFilm technology, to deliver 101m taken in Q4 in respect of the acquisition 1,884m, with growth evident in all regions.
In Suboxone in a fast-dissolving sublingual film.
For the base business, adjusted Health & Personal Care, the Dettol personal As the Group is rapidly converting Suboxone operating profit rose 12% 10% constant to care range, comprising bar and liquid soaps and tablets to the sublingual film, there is a 1,697m, equating to a 110bp improvement shower gels, continued to deliver excellent short-term dilutive impact on net revenue and in the margin.
Veet, Strepsils and Gaviscon also operating profit: however, this conversion much contributed strongly.
In Fabric Care, Vanish Net finance income was 6m 2009: net better protects the medium and long-term delivered a strong result, while Dettol, Harpic finance income of 1m, with strong free cash earnings stream from the Suboxone franchise in and Veja all contributed to growth in Surface flow generation during the year partly offset by the US.
Hence, in the event of generic Care.
The increase in Home Care was driven by the payment in respect of the acquisition of SSL competition to the tablet, the Group expects Air Care, and supported by the launch of in November.
The 2010 net finance income that the Suboxone sublingual film will help to Aqua Mist.
includes a 3m exceptional charge in respect of mitigate the impact thereof.
financing costs associated with the acquisition For the full year, operating profit increased by SSL 1% of net revenue of SSL.
The tax rate was 26%, this higher rate 21% to 275m.
This resulted in a 10bp Following consolidation from 1 November being reflective of the less benign tax improvement in the operating margin to 2010, SSL delivered 90m net revenue in the environment in which the Group now operates.
Operating profit was 3m, Net income attributable to shareholders was Pharmaceuticals 9% of net revenue after reflecting the cost of aligning SSLs trading 1,568m, an increase of 11% 8% constant 2010 net revenue for the Groups Subutex and practices with those of RB.
versus 2009: on an adjusted basis, net income 8 Reckitt Benckiser 2010 For reference only treated with Suboxone in the US and the net cash flow from operations was 1,386m The following information is pro forma to launch of the Suboxone sublingual film which, 2009: 1,803m.
Net interest received was Reckitt Benckisers December year-end and with a market volume share of 25% in the 8m 2009: net interest paid of 4m and tax aligned with the Groups accounting policies, most recent reading, is well ahead of our payments increased by 308m to 679m and is provided for reference purposes only.
The performance was 2009: 371m following the settlement of a further helped by the full inclusion of a number number of outstanding matters.
Capital SSL delivered FY 2010 net revenue of 797m of countries in Europe and the Rest of World expenditure was higher than the prior year at 0% like-for-like.
The new range of Feeling from 1 July 2010, as a result of the majority of 367m 2009: 158m, due to the buy back of condoms, including RealFeel and Fetherlite sales, marketing and distribution rights to the the remaining sales, marketing and distribution Ultra, boosted the performance of Durex, while  products Suboxone, rights to Suboxone, Subutex and Temgesic in the Hard Skin range of Footcare products Subutex and Temgesic being bought back by Europe and the Rest of World and the supported the result for Scholl.
This growth was the Group.
Operating profit was ahead 37% investment in certain Health & Personal Care offset by weaker performance for the local to 531m, equating to a 890bp improvement brands from Combe Incorporated.
Operating profit was 119m, in the operating margin to 72.0%.
equating to an operating margin of 14.9%.
At the end of the year net debt was Food.
2010 net revenue grew 9% to 304m 2,011m December 2009: net cash of 220m, CATEGORY REVIEW AT CONSTANT with a very good performance across the an increase of 2,231m.
This reflected net cash EXCHANGE RATES consumer portfolio, in particular further growth flow from operations of 1,386m, offset by the Health & Personal Care excluding SSL.
for Frenchs Yellow Mustard, Frenchs Fried acquisition of SSL for 2,466m net of cash Net revenue increased 6% to 2,265m.
In Onions and Franks Red Hot Sauce, and boosted acquired in November, the payment of two Personal Care, the Dettol personal wash range by new variants for these franchises.
Operating dividends totalling 773m, the buy back of the continued to deliver excellent growth in profit increased 19% to 87m.
remaining sales, marketing and distribution Developing Markets and Europe, while the rights to Suboxone, Subutex and Temgesic in launch of the Lysol Dettol No-Touch Hand Soap SSL.
Following consolidation from 1 November Europe and the Rest of World and the System also contributed strongly.
Veet 2010, SSL delivered 90m net revenue in the investment in certain Health & Personal Care increased, helped by the new SupremEssence two month period.
The Group range with essential oils.
FINANCIAL REVIEW regularly reviews its banking arrangements and In Health Care, a strong result for Gaviscon and Basis of preparation.
The financial currently has adequate facilities available to it.
Strepsils was mitigated by the impact of a information is prepared in accordance with Balance sheet.
At the end of 2010, the Group challenging comparative for Mucinex due to IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and had shareholders funds of 5,130m 2009: H1N1-related demand in Q4 2009.
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting 4,014m, an increase of 28%.
Net debt was Standards Board, and with the accounting Fabric Care.
Net revenue declined 1% to 2,011m 2009: net cash of 220m and total policies set out in note 1 on pages 34 to 37.
1,576m, impacted by increased competitive capital employed in the business was 7,141m activity for Vanish, and weakness in Water Constant exchange.
rates relative to sterling affect actual results as This finances non-current assets of 10,700m reported.
The constant exchange rate basis Surface Care.
Net revenue grew 4% to 2009: 6,891m, of which 740m 2009: adjusts the comparative to exclude such 1,391m.
The Lysol Dettol germ protection 639m is tangible fixed assets, the remainder movements, to show the underlying growth of ranges increased, boosted by a strong result for being goodwill, other intangible assets, the Group.
Harpic behind new initiatives and continued deferred tax, available for sale financial assets excellent performance from Veja in Brazil.
Net finance income was and other receivables.
The Group has net 6m, a 5m improvement compared to 2009 working capital of minus 900m 2009: minus Home Care.
Net revenue increased 8% to 1m, reflecting strong free cash flow 1,257m, current provisions of 164m 2009: 1,152m.
In Air Care, growth was driven by the generation during the year.
The 2010 net 88m and long-term liabilities other than launch of Air Wick Aqua Mist and Air Wick finance income includes a 3m exceptional borrowings of 2,493m 2009: 1,752m.
Ribbons, while the performance in Pest Control charge in respect of financing costs associated was supported by the Mortein range of The Groups financial ratios remain strong.
with the acquisition of SSL.
automatic sprays and a good pest season.
Return on shareholders funds net income Tax.
The underlying tax rate was 26% divided by total shareholders funds was Dishwashing.
The performance was led by the adjusted basis 2009: 35.3% on both a continued success of Finish Quantum, with Net working capital.
inventories, short-term reported and an adjusted basis.
growth in dishwashing additives and the launch receivables and short-term liabilities excluding of QuantuMatic also contributing.
borrowings and provisions of minus 900m Dividends.
The Board of Directors was 357m adverse compared to the 31 recommends a final dividend of 65 pence per Total Household and Health & Personal December 2009 level, mostly due to the impact share 2009: 57 pence, an increase of 14%, Care excluding SSL.
Net revenue was ahead of consolidating SSL and an increase in RBP to give a full year dividend of 115 pence per by 4% to 7,322m.
receivables following the buy back of the rights share 2009: 100 pence, an overall increase of RBP.
2010 net revenue for the Groups Subutex in Europe and Rest of World from Merck.
The dividend, if approved by and Suboxone prescription drug business grew shareholders at the AGM on 5 May 2011, will Cash flow.
Cash generated from operating 24% to 737m, predominantly driven by a be paid on 26 May to shareholders on the activities was 2,215m 2009: 2,323m and continued increase in the number of patients register at the record date of 25 February.
The ex-dividend date is 23 February and the last date for election for the share alternative to the dividend is 5 May.
The final dividend will be 2010 results excluding RBP and SSL accrued once approved by shareholders.
In light of the increasing significance of the RBP business, the Group provides the following information relating to the performance of the business in 2010 excluding RBP and the acquisition Contingent liabilities.
The Group is involved of SSL on an adjusted basis.
in a number of investigations by competition authorities in Europe and has made provisions RB ex RBP & SSL RBP Total RB ex SSL m % like-for-like m % like-for-like m % like-for-like for such investigations, where appropriate.
Where it is too early to determine the likely Net revenue 7,626 5% 737 24% 8,363 6% outcome of these matters, the Directors have Adjusted operating profit 1,697 10% 531 37% 2,228 15% made no provision for such potential liabilities.
Adjusted operating margin 22.3% 72.0% 26.6% Reckitt Benckiser 2010 9 Business review 2010 continued During 2010, one case has been settled with exposures arise mainly from foreign currency the Company has provided returns to the Office of Fair Trading in relation to Gaviscon receipts and payments for goods and services, shareholders in the form of dividends, current for an amount of 10.2m.
and from the remittance of foreign currency details of which are included in the Financial dividends and loans.
The local business units Review for the year, above.
The Group from time to time is involved in enter into forward foreign exchange contracts disputes in relation to ongoing tax matters in a The Group monitors net debt total borrowings with the GTC to manage these exposures number of jurisdictions around the world.
less cash and cash equivalents and financing where practical and allowed by local Where appropriate, the Directors make derivative financial instruments and at the year regulations.
The GTC manages the Group provisions based on their assessment of end the Group had net debt of 2,011m 2009: exposures, and hedges the net position where each case.
The Group does not possible, using spot and forward foreign actively monitor a gearing ratio, but seeks to On 23 February 2011 the Group received a civil currency exchange contracts.
pay down net debt using cash generated by the claim for damages from the Department of Market price risk business to maintain an appropriate level of Health and others in the United Kingdom The Group is not exposed to equity securities financial flexibility.
regarding alleged anti-competitive activity price risk.
Due to the nature of its business the involving the Gaviscon brand.
The claim is Details of numerical disclosures relating to the Group is exposed to commodity price risk under review and although it is at an early Groups financial risk management are included related to the production or packaging of stage, the Directors do not believe that any in note 24 to the Accounts on pages 58 to 62. finished goods such as oil-related and a diverse potential impact would be material to the range of other raw materials.
This risk is, PROSPECTS Group financial statements.
however, managed primarily through mediumThe Group believes it is well positioned to Financial risk management term contracts with certain key suppliers and is continue to deliver on its strategic objective of The Groups multi-national operations expose it not therefore viewed as being a material risk.
to a variety of financial risks that include the Interest rate risk For the medium-term outlook, the Group effects of changes in foreign currency exchange The Group has both interest-bearing and non targets to deliver above industry average rates foreign exchange risk, market prices, interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group growth in net revenue, converted into attractive interest rates, credit risks and liquidity.
The manages its interest expense rate exposure growth in earnings, with increasing capital Group has in place a risk management using a mixture of fixed rate and floating rate efficiency.
The Group has confidence in its programme that uses foreign currency financial debt.
The Group manages its interest rate ability to continue to generate strong cash flow instruments, including debt, and other exposure on its gross financial assets by using and to return substantial cash to shareholders instruments, to limit the impact of these risks fixed rate term deposits.
on the financial performance of the Group.
Credit risk The unknown factor is the ability of the Group The Groups financing and financial risk The Group has no significant concentrations of to enhance its prospects through mergers and management activities are centralised into the credit risk.
The industries in which it Group Treasury Centre GTC to achieve are subject to approval under the Groups competes are already characterised by high benefits of scale and control.
The GTC manages counterparty risk policy and such approval is levels of concentration, resulting in very financial exposures of the Group centrally in a limited to financial institutions with a BBB infrequent opportunities to buy worthwhile manner consistent with underlying business rating or above.
The amount of exposure to any assets or businesses.
The Group is of the belief risks.
The GTC manages only those risks and individual counterparty is subject to a limit that add-on acquisitions, geographically and by flows generated by the underlying commercial defined within the counterparty risk policy, product category, could enhance the business, operations and speculative transactions are which is reassessed annually by the Board.
but is not in a position to forecast as and when not undertaken.
The Group Liquidity risk The Board of Directors reviews and agrees retains substantial resources to fund such The Group has bilateral credit facilities with policies, guidelines and authority levels for all acquisitions and believes it has the high-quality international banks.
All of these areas of treasury activity and individually management capability to absorb, integrate facilities have similar or equivalent terms and approves significant activities.
The GTC and manage such acquisitions within its conditions, and have a financial covenant, operates under the close control of the Chief existing structure.
which is not expected to restrict the Groups Financial Officer and is subject to periodic future operations.
The committed borrowing For 2011, the Group is aiming for another year independent reviews and audits, both internal facilities, together with available uncommitted of above industry average growth: and external.
facilities and central cash and investment, are For the Group excluding SSL, the target is for Foreign exchange risk considered sufficient to meet the Groups 4% like-for-like net revenue growth, with a Translation risk projected cash requirements.
profit growth ahead of that.
This net revenue The Group publishes its financial statements in Funds over and above those required for target compares to a global market which is sterling but conducts business in many foreign short-term working capital purposes by the currently showing no growth.
As a result, it is subject to foreign overseas businesses are generally remitted to currency exchange risk due to the effects that For the recently-acquired SSL business, the the GTC.
The Group uses the remittances to exchange rate movements have on the Group is also targeting around 4% net settle obligations, repay borrowings, or, in the translation of the results and the underlying net revenue growth on a like-for-like basis base: event of a surplus, invest in short-term assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
762m : in addition, the Group is aiming to instruments issued by institutions with a BBB add 50% of the 100m cost synergies to the The Groups policy is to align interest costs and rating or above.
An exceptional pre-tax operating profit of its major currencies in order Capital management charge in the region of 150m is expected to to provide some protection against the The Groups objectives for managing capital are be incurred in 2011, of which around 4m will translation exposure on foreign currency to safeguard the Groups and Companys ability be exceptional financing costs.
This brings the profits after tax.
The Group may undertake to continue as a going concern, in order to total pre-tax exceptional charge in respect of borrowings and other hedging methods in the provide returns for shareholders and benefits the acquisition of SSL and further currencies of the countries where most of its for other stakeholders and to maintain an reconfiguration of the enlarged Group to assets are located.
efficient capital structure to optimise the cost around 250m, of which approximately 216m b Transaction risk of capital.
relates to restructuring and c. 34m is It is the Groups policy to monitor and only transaction costs.
In maintaining an appropriate capital structure where appropriate, hedge its foreign currency and providing returns for shareholders, in 2010 transaction exposure.
These transaction 10 Reckitt Benckiser 2010 the completion of strategic transactions are forward For RBP, the Group continues to target further Cautionary note concerning forward looking statements.
These forward looking statements market share growth for the Suboxone film looking statements are not guarantees of future performance: by their This document contains forward looking statements, variant.
At this time, the Group has no new nature, forward looking statements involve known including statements with respect to the financial intelligence as to the timing of potential generic and unknown risk and uncertainty and other factors condition, results of operations and business of Reckitt competition to the Suboxone tablets in the US.
because they relate to events and depend on Benckiser and certain of the plans and objectives of circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a Taking all of the above into consideration, the the Company with respect to these items.
These number of factors, discussed in this report, that could forward looking statements are made pursuant to the targets for the total Group are for 12% net cause actual results and developments to differ Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private revenue growth base: 8,453m and 10% materially from those expressed or implied by these Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, adjusted net income growth excluding forward looking statements, including many factors all statements that express forecasts, expectations and exceptional charges on a base of 1,661m, outside Reckitt Benckisers control.
Past performance projections with respect to future matters, including both at constant exchange.
These targets cannot be relied upon as a guide to future trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, exclude the potential impact of generic performance.
Each forward looking statement speaks overall market trends, the impact of interest or competition to the Suboxone tablets in the US, as of the date of the particular statement.
exchange rates, the availability of financing to the and will be adjusted downwards in the event Company, anticipated cost savings or synergies and that generic competition emerges.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Board and the Executive Committee have identified a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs that are most relevant to the Group and are used to measure performance.
KPI 2010 2009 Comments Net revenue growth 6% 8% Measures the increase in sales of the Group % like-for-like growth of net revenue at constant exchange Powerbrands 69% 70% Measures the growth and importance of the % of net revenue from top brands Groups flagship brands Gross margin % 60.6% 60.2% Measures the resources available for reinvestment Gross profit as % of net revenue or profit growth Media investment 10.7% 11.1% Measures the rate of reinvestment in the Media investment as % of net revenue Groups brands Operating margin % 26.4% 24.4% Measures the profitability of the Group Operating profit as % of net revenue EPS fully diluted 226.5p 194.7p Measures the increase in profit per share of the Group % change in EPS fully diluted 16% 23% Net cash flow 1,386m 1,803m Measures how the Group converts its profits into cash See page 33 -23% 53% Net working capital ratio -900m -1,257m Measures the ability of the Group to finance defined as inventories, short-term receivables and -10.6% -16.2% its expansion and release cash from working capital short-term liabilities excluding borrowings and provisions as % of net revenue Management turnover 12% 16% % of T400 management that has left the Group % of net revenue in No.
1 73% 73% Measures the health of the Groups or No.
2 brand positions brand market positions Excludes the acquisition of SSL Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items Reckitt Benckiser 2010 11
