About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Chairmans statement result, the Group's year end gearing stood at 11% current year when around 40% of legal completions will A healthy housing market is necessary for the UK compared to 73% in June 2009. be the new product.
economy as it generates substantial economic activity, helps mobility of labour and increases Government No dividend is being declared for the year in line with the Sales and Market Conditions revenues through taxes and stamp duty.
Market Board's stated policy of only paying a dividend once the The housing market continued its recovery during the first improvement cannot be achieved without the first time Group has an appropriate level of earnings cover.
half of the financial year and remained steady during the buyer stimulating the chain and I strongly urge the second half.
As a result of both the improved market Government to intervene, possibly by way of an insurance Structure conditions and the change in strategy, we increased our indemnity scheme to enable lenders to provide up to There have been a number of management changes during legal completions by 22% year-on-year to 2,587 homes 90-95% mortgages once again to first time buyers, or at the period which led to much simpler and more direct 2009: 2,113. the very least, provide a first time buyer tax break.
communications between the regional businesses and the Group.
The Regional Chairmen posts, together with their Weekly sales rates have also grown, averaging 0.58 per Young people need help to get onto the housing ladder infrastructure, have been scrapped and John Tutte, who has outlet in the year, compared to 0.4 in 2009.
We do one way or another and it is a sad reflection of our society been with Redrow since 2002, was appointed Group however continue to be constrained by a low number of that the average age of an unassisted first time buyer is Managing Director, responsible for day-to-day operations.
sales outlets, primarily caused by persistent planning now 37 years old, with the latest report from the National delays.
It is a key objective of the current financial year to Housing Federation suggesting that this will increase to 43 I am also pleased to welcome Barbara Richmond, who increase the number of outlets, which stood at 74 at the for todays 21 year olds.
joined the Board in January 2010 as Group Finance end of June.
Under Barbaras direction the costing and Land and Planning reporting procedures are being substantially simplified and Like for like selling prices increased by 3% during the first A total of 3,281 plots were acquired during the year, which This is the first full year since my return to Redrow and I modernised.
half of the financial year.
Sales prices in the second half was heavily weighted towards second half purchases am pleased to report that the business has made and indeed the calendar year to date, have been stable.
following the re-engagement of land teams in our regional The new, more streamlined, management team is working Sales per outlet in the second half were comfortably businesses.
As a result of legal completions, replans and significant progress and is in the best shape it has been for well and I believe contains the right balance of skill and ahead of the previous year.
We entered the current period the sale of a site which no longer met our corporate some time.
There have been major changes in the overall experience to steer the successful progression of the with like for like private sales 18% ahead at 106m.
objectives, the current land bank stands at 13,170 plots, direction of the business, including both the management team and structure, product and Group finances, all of Group.
little change from last year, with the forward land bank which I will comment on below.
At the beginning of the financial year we still had standing at circa 22,000 plots.
During the year, three regional offices in the North West, significant capital tied up in completed properties from Yorkshire and South Midlands were re-opened following the old Debut and In the City ranges, mainly large The length of time taken to obtain planning permission Financial Results their closure in 2008.
In total Redrow now has nine apartment schemes.
It was important to increase sales has become the principal obstacle to the adequate supply In the financial year ended 30 June 2010 Group Revenue increased 31.5% to 396.9m 2009: 301.8m.
This was operational businesses which will provide the momentum on these developments, at appropriate prices, of new homes in the UK.
I have long been critical of the due to both a 22% increase in legal completions to 2,587 infrastructure for substantial further growth.
in order to re-employ the capital on new sites.
We legally unwieldy and grossly over-bureaucratic planning system, homes 2009: 2,113 and an 8.7% increase in our average completed 441 of these homes in the 2010 financial year which has become surrounded by so much red tape that The New Heritage Collection and as I write around 160 remain for sale.
the sheer volume of paper accompanying planning selling price to 149,300 2009: 137,400.
One of the principle highlights of the year was the applications often requires submission by delivery van.
successful launch of the New Heritage Collection in The cancellation rate remained fairly consistent through Gross margin rose to 10.5% from 1.8% in 2009 as a result of mix changes, increased average selling prices and February 2010.
The New Heritage Collection of the year at 17%.
Once again the overwhelming cause of It has now become the norm that more people are increased volumes.
"Operating expenses rose slightly during predominantly family homes draws its inspiration from cancellations was the chronic shortage of suitable involved in the preparation of the countless reports the year as we selectively invested resources in the the Arts & Crafts movement and re-introduces real mortgage product, combined with the persistent and required to accompany planning applications than are character and ""kerb appeal"" back into our product."
ongoing issue of down valuations by valuers acting for the employed on site building the houses.
Indeed Redrow, as expansion of the business.
Although there has been a marginal the fifth largest house builder in the UK by volume, last The New Heritage Collection now features in over 30% of improvement in recent months, the issues remain.
year spent more money on planning and planning related The operating profit for the year was 12.7m, compared to an operating loss before exceptionals of 22.4m and our outlets and it will be incorporated in the vast majority fees than it did on bricks.
119.0m after exceptionals in the prior year.
We delivered of newly acquired sites.
The average selling price for the I am particularly concerned with the plight of first time a pre-tax profit of 0.7m in 2010, compared to the 2009 new range during the year was 180,000, 15% higher than buyers, who, unless assisted by their parents, are forced One of the first acts of the new Coalition Government was the previous product range.
into saving upwards of 20% of the value of their first to abolish Regional Housing Targets in preparation for its loss of 140.8m.
home by way of deposit, which compares to an historic Localism agenda and what is trailed to be a period of The New Heritage Collection is proving to be extremely first time buyer deposit of around 6%.
Until this issue is radical change to the planning system.
If the proposed Putting the Group's finances back on a sound footing was a fundamental requirement on my return to the business popular, both increasing market share in the localities resolved it will remain the major constraint to the full changes bring a speedier process and reduced bureaucracy and the successful 150m Rights Issue in October 2009 where it has been introduced and margins on the sites recovery of the UK housing market with overall they will be welcomed by all.
However it had little financial transactions set to continue at the current historically low achieved this.
Net debt at the end of June 2010 stood at impact during the year as there were only 67 legal levels.
Unfortunately at a time when the industry is crying out 47.1m, compared to 214.6m in the prior year, due to completions.
This is set to change significantly during the for certainty and is desperate for more outlets, the both the Rights Issue and tighter control of cash.
As a Page 6 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 7
