About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting to the members their The Directors have reviewed the Groups financial forecasts for Formal appraisals of Executive Directors were undertaken during registered charity of which Steve Morgan is a trustee.
This is report and the financial statements for the 12 months ended the financial year.
All the Non-Executive Directors underwent an the period to 30 June 2012 and associated financial covenants included within the charitable donations in respect of National 30 June 2010. and have considered various downside sensitivities reflecting the annual appraisal conducted by the Non-Executive Deputy charities noted above.
potential impact of a further reasonably foreseeable deterioration Chairman.
This review confirmed headroom within Principal Activities and Business Review both financial covenants and facilities, subject to the business The Board confirms that Steve Morgan, John Tutte and Barbara Employees undertaking identified mitigating actions which lie within the Richmond, who stand for re-appointment as Executive Directors, The principal activity of the Group is residential development Groups control.
The principal sensitivity relates to the impact of and Alan Jackson, Debbie Hewitt and Paul Hampden Smith who Redrow places considerable importance on the provision of which includes mixed use development.
Redrow plc is a public market conditions on profitability and in turn on the Groups net stand for re-appointment as a Non-Executive Directors, continue training and development: training@redrow, a purpose built listed company, listed on the London Stock Exchange and asset position relative to the covenanted level.
to be effective and demonstrate the appropriate commitment to in-house training facility at Tamworth, completed over 1,300 domiciled in the UK.
training days during the year ended 30 June 2010 including those Revenue and profit on ordinary activities before taxation from After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider they which support the Group induction process.
continuing operations are stated at 396.9m and 0.7m have a reasonable expectation for stating that the Group and the The Executive Directors have formal service agreements.
Company have adequate resources to continue trading for the Termination of their employment may be effected by 12 months The Group supports the employment of disabled persons foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going notice given by the Company except for Steve Morgan where the wherever possible through recruitment and by the retention and In the current environment, the Board considers that shareholders concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
notice period is six months.
retraining of those who become disabled during their are best served by retaining cash within the business and employment.
therefore does not propose making a final dividend payment.
The Non-Executive Directors have fixed term service agreements Significant Interests outlining their duties and responsibilities.
The Directors recognise the importance of good communications The information that fulfils the requirements of the business with employees.
Companies within the Group are encouraged to review can be found in the Chairmans statement and the As at 8 September 2010, the Company has been advised of Details of Directors service agreements are given in the make their employees aware of the financial and economic Operating review and Financial review on pages 6 to 20.
This the following notifiable interests of 3% or more in its ordinary Directors Remuneration report on page 38. factors affecting their respective companies and the Group.
This is includes a review of the key risks facing the business and a review shares: assisted through the medium of regular management meetings, of the key performance indicators of the business and future So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit staff publications and the Redrow intranet.
Details of the financial risk management No.
of % of issued information of which the Groups external Auditors are unaware.
objectives and policies and associated risk exposure is given in Name shares held share capital Each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings related note 14: Financial Risk Management.
as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit schemes.
In the year ended 30 June 2010, the Save As You Earn Bridgemere information and to establish that the Groups external Auditors scheme was administered via a Qualifying Employee Share incl.
Steve Morgan 92,436,874 29.95% are aware of that information.
Going Concern Toscafund 15,532,969 5.03% The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on going concern Aegon Asset Management 11,623,422 3.77% and financial reporting published by the Financial Reporting Legal & General Directors Interests Creditor Payment Policy Council in October 2009.
Investment Management 12,146,138 3.93% Related party transactions are disclosed in note 23 to the The Group values its relationships with suppliers and The current economic conditions and uncertainty in the housing financial statements.
A summary of remuneration provided to key subcontractors.
It is the policy to agree credit terms prior to market create uncertainties for the business, and a description of The persons set out in the table above have notified the management personnel is provided in note 7c.
Subject to any items of genuine the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and dispute, it is policy to pay creditors within the terms agreed.
At arrangements to manage these risks are set out on page 20.
The Transparency Rules of their interests in the ordinary share The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company June 2010 the Group had 51 days purchases outstanding in Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to capital of the Company.
are given in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 42 to respect of payments to suppliers and subcontractors 2009: 48 affect its future performance, are set out in the Operating review 43.
There has been no change in the Directors interests between days.
The Company had nil days purchases outstanding in and Financial review on pages 9 to 20.
The Groups management At 8 September 2010, no change in these holdings had been 30 June 2010 and 8 September 2010 apart from the increase in respect of payments to suppliers 2009: nil.
of exposure to financial risk, including liquidity, interest rate risk notified nor, according to the registrar of members, did any holdings by John Tutte arising from his participation in a monthly and credit risk, is disclosed in note 14 to the financial statements other shareholder at that date have a notifiable holding of share purchase plan.
together with details of the Groups banking facilities and capital issued share capital.
Research and Development management policies and processes.
Charitable and Political Donations The Group has a centralised Product Development Team charged As explained in the Financial review on page 17 and 18, the Directors with identifying and evaluating new construction techniques and Group maintains adequate committed banking facilities which The Group made no political donations but paid 594,000 in products.
Environmental and sustainability issues play a comprise an unsecured 250m revolving credit facility due to The Directors of the Company during the year are listed on page charitable donations during the year being 588,000 in respect of prominent role in its activities.
The charge to the income mature on 30 September 2011.
As stated in note 14 to the 40 of the Directors Remuneration report.
National charities and 6,000 in support of local charities.
statement in respect of research and development in the year financial statements, at 30 June 2010, the Group had 200m of The Group and its employees are actively involved in fundraising was 0.2m 2009: 0.3m.
undrawn committed borrowing facilities available.
Positive The current Directors are listed together with their biographical activities for specific charities.
The Group made a 576,000 preliminary discussions in respect of facility requirements post details on pages 26 and 27. donation during the year to the Morgan Foundation, a UK 30 September 2011 have commenced.
Page 44 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 45
