business and financial review our 2010 results 1 2010 was a record year for Rightmove with profits after tax 1 2 of 38.5m 2009: 29.1m.
Underlying operating profit was up 39% to 56.6m 2009: 40.6m.
Organic revenue 1 growth drove the growth in profits with overall revenue of 1 2 81.6m 2009: 64.5m, up 26%.
Underlying costs only rose 5%, further demonstrating the scalability of the Rightmove business.
The above numbers exclude the contribution from Holiday Ed Williams Nick McKittrick Managing Director Chief Operating Officer Lettings HLL.
We sold our 66.7% share of the business to and Finance Director TripAdvisor Limited a subsidiary of Expedia Inc in June 2010 for a net consideration of 20.9m, representing a seven-fold Rightmoves revenues and profits for 2010 were significantly increase on our original investment in 2007.
The proceeds of higher than in any previous year in Rightmoves history.
this sale have already been returned to shareholders through Our value to property advertisers flows from the fact that our share buy back programme.
Rightmove is where the majority of people in Britain look for their next home.
In 2010 activity on our website increased What we do and the keys to success significantly reaching record levels.
Our share of the total Rightmoves success comes from the value we add to our online property search market grew to an all-time high and our advertisers, which is itself created primarily by giving them lead over our nearest competitor widened to its greatest ever.
the ability to reach the largest audience of UK home movers Our advertising base of estate agents, lettings agents in one place.
and new home developers grew by 2% despite 2010 being Our demonstrated ability to out-perform print-based another challenging year in the UK property market.
We property advertising, as well as clear leadership among believe that in terms of transaction volumes 2010 will be little internet property sites, is based on: different from 2008 and 2009 at around half the historic levels.
1 the scale of and continued growth in our home Hence, to have increased revenue by 26% and 1 2 hunting audience: underlying operating profit by 39% year on year, reflects the strength of the Rightmove brand: a further increase in the importance of Rightmove to the growing recognition amongst estate agents that they advertisers.
This can be seen by the fact that the very should promote the value of their brands to win vendor considerable majority of the increase in our revenue came instructions to sell their homes: from existing customers choosing to spend more with us.
the particular need for buyer enquiries in a tough market: Sales of our new display advertising products launched at the wider services we provide as an integral part the start of 2010 contributed more than a quarter of the of membership: increase in revenue.
our consultative sales and service relationship with our customers: and measurability of our performance.
5 rightmove plc annual report 2010 business key key per perfforor and manc manc financial ee indica indica review ttors ors The key performance indicators that we monitor include: NUMBER oF ADvERTISERS MARKET SHARE PAGE IMPRESSIoNS 18,042 total membership at end of % 2010 was 18,042 2009: 17,664, up 2% year on year 82 7.6 billion of the market share of the top 4 page impressions up from UK property websites by pages 6.5 billion in 2009 viewed, same as 2009 Source: Rightmove Source: Experian Hitwise and Rightmove: January 2011 and January 2010 UKS LARGEST PRoPERTY PoRTAL CoRPoRATE ESTATE AGENTS PRoPERTIES DISPLAYED % 100 1.1million of all of the top 25 corporate properties displayed no.
1 estate agents list their on Rightmove.
co. uk at properties with us 31 December 2010, up property website 10% year on year enquiRieS NEW HoME DEvELoPERS % MoBILE 18.6million 92 enquiries up from 18.4 million 23 out of 25 of the top new enquiries in 2009 home developers advertised 222 million on Rightmove.
co. uk in 2010 mobile page impressions up 900% on 2009 6 rightmove plc annual report 2010 Sustained investment in serving home hunters Page impressions were up 17% to 7.6bn 2009: 6.5bn.
Home movers use Rightmove above all because it constitutes According to Experian Hitwise Rightmove served more the easiest and most familiar way in which to view reliable pages of property information than all the other 1,400 information about most properties currently available on property websites combined and around ten times that of the market.
The quality of the experience we provide to home hunters In recent months we have seen a big increase in the results not just from the scale of our investment in the amount of home hunting activity carried out on mobile Rightmove.
co. uk website but also the experience we have devices.
This is in addition to the increase in activity reported built up over more than a decade of designing and providing above in relation to our website.
We believe that the number quality information about properties, accessible through the of property searches being done on Rightmoves mobile best search in the property sector.
platforms are as great as the entire number of searches on our During 2010 we have continued with that investment with nearest competitors websites.
As we start 2011, the iPhone key innovations including: Application has been downloaded to over 1m phones and the a new property details page: this includes larger and more iPad Application downloaded 100,000 times.
The emergence photographs and better floor plans, integrated maps, as of tablet computers, of which the iPad is the highest profile, well as improved integration with social networking sites: provide a particularly attractive interface through which to draw a search: the ability to plot out an area on a map or present property details and we see their future success as aerial photograph of the specific area in which the home of benefit to Rightmove.
hunter is interested and to search in their chosen area and thereafter to receive updates of properties coming to Sustained investment in brand market in that area: Rightmove benefits from more than ten years of investment a generic mobile platform: following the success of our in brand recognition.
The results of this sustained investment iPhone Application launched in 2009 Rightmove has were highlighted by an independent survey which was introduced a generic mobile platform to allow a wide range published in the Sunday Times in January 2011.
The survey of other mobile devices to access a mobile friendly version of 1,600 people across Britain who, either had their homes of the Rightmove site.
In addition we launched an iPad on the market or had recently sold, showed that 92% used Application coinciding with the European launch of the Rightmove and 69% used Rightmove repeatedly.
We iPad: and launched our new TV advert, safari, around the turn of the the launch of our property-related social networking site year 2009 10 and have run further campaigns in the spring, Rightmoveplaces which provides the public with a place early autumn and from Christmas 2010 well into 2011. to talk about their local neighbourhoods and what it is like The campaigns appear to have helped further boost to live there.
awareness amongst home movers as well as delivering on our commitment to our advertisers to ensure that their Continuing to innovate and invest in the Rightmove website is properties get the best exposure.
important to maintaining and strengthening our position as the Rightmoves historical investment in brand is a key method of choice for home hunters to look at properties.
defence against new entrants or disintermediation by large internet companies.
We continue to receive around four out of five visits to our website from people either typing in the Rightmove name, using our mobile platforms or responding 7 rightmove plc annual report 2010 Where landlords get started Rightmove plays a key role as a property comparables research tool.
this is a valuable starting point for agents as well as potential investors.
business and financial review continued to our email alerts or unpaid links from other sites.
Most of the innovation in advertising products remainder comes from organic search, for which we do not Over a quarter of the increase in our revenues in 2010 pay.
In those rare instances where we do pay for site traffic, came from products we did not have in 2009.
Our two it is small scale, short-term and focused on acquiring a very key new products provide display advertising services by specific audience e. g. students in specific cities.
which our advertisers can communicate messages about Rightmove is an active user of social media sites such as themselves and any offers they may have.
As the products Facebook and Twitter, as one would expect from a major are search-term based, they allow advertisers to target internet brand.
Both the redesign of our property details page geographically local audiences in a similar but more granular and the creation of Rightmoveplaces should help us benefit and flexible way than traditional newspapers.
In some cases from the social media trend.
To date there is no evidence that we have actually attracted advertising spend that the home hunting activity itself is migrating to social media advertiser had considered spending in other media such as environments so we see these new media as principally radio something that was unthinkable in a world where representing opportunities rather than threats.
Rightmove only offered a property listing service.
During 2010 we also made substantial improvements to Support to our advertisers some existing products.
For instance, we replaced the Our programme of free breakfast seminars for agents took Showcase product with Featured Property.
The replacement us to 27 venues across the UK in 2010.
Since we started in product gives advertisers a large image of the property, 2009, we have now had around 5,000 agents taking up the increased prominence of their own logo and automates the invitation to attend these events.
The seminars are designed process of changing which property is displayed during the to help our members be more successful and demonstrate month.
These changes have made the product significantly how they can get the most from their Rightmove membership.
more effective in generating interest in the properties featured.
Rightmoves investment in field and telephone account Taking the year as a whole, 21% of revenue came from managers allows us to spend time with every customer to spending by our customers above and beyond that spend on help them understand the wider range of benefits to be listing properties, as compared to 14% in 2009.
In absolute derived from their Rightmove membership.
These include terms spending on these products was up 90% on the management information and reporting tools, competitor previous year.
We would expect to see the proportion of total comparisons and reports and marketing material which they spend accounted for by these and similar future products to can use directly with home sellers and landlords.
In November 2010 we launched a dedicated section of our Many of our customers have taken advantage of a scheme website specifically to focus on student lettings.
Many of we offer, where for a commitment to spend an additional Rightmoves lettings agent customers offer properties that amount every month all year typically 200 per month in would be suitable for students and a few exclusively focus on 2010 they can select whatever combination of our additional the student market.
By creating a separate part of the site we advertising products they wish in return for a discount against are making it easier for students to find what they are looking the individual list price of the products.
Adoption of this for and for agents to target a student audience.
As we roll out scheme has resulted in both a significant increase in the the service beyond the initial cities we have focused on, we average spend on Rightmove per advertiser and a continued should also be able to attract some advertisers who would not high predictability of our income streams.
have previously considered Rightmove as a place to advertise to students.
9 rightmove plc annual report 2010 Draw a search Draw a Search is a new alternative to more traditional searches.
It allows home-movers to draw their own search areas maybe the local school catchment area or the streets overlooking the park?.
business and financial review continued our focus advertise.
2010 was little different from previous years and Our focus has been and remains on the UK online property we have no basis to believe 2011 will be any different.
We see this focus as a strength of the We believe that risks relating to operational failures, to business and an important contributor to our success.
financial and legal exposures, to fraud or embezzlement or from While we believe that Rightmove would be a major onerous commercial obligations or liabilities are limited.
The beneficiary of any increase in the number of agents in the business has few tangible assets and the major intellectual market or number of developments being marketed by new assets are tied up in the design and performance of our website homes developers, that is more a function of improvements in and in our brand identity, recognition and reputation.
Where we apply our greatest focus is on increasing the absolute amount and the proportion of financial position overall marketing budgets which our customers choose to spend with us.
In 2010 the average spend per branch or Revenue 1 development increased by 23%, accounting for the Revenue increased in 2010 by 17.0m up 26%.
Almost all considerable majority of the overall revenue growth.
the growth came from our Agency business with a year on year increase of 16.7m up 35%.
Agency has always been by far Uncertainties, threats and risks our largest business but in 2010 showed a growth in terms of The Rightmove business model has proven to be remarkably the proportion of our total revenue, being 78% 2009: 73%.
resilient in the unprecedented downturn in the property Revenue from New Homes developers increased by market experienced in 2008 and has delivered significant 0.5m to 15.1m up 4% with development numbers stable growth even in a tough market subsequent to that.
in the second half of the year suggesting an end to the decline Nonetheless the business is inevitably exposed to the general that started in the second half of 2008. state of the housing market and particularly to transaction Other revenue fell by 0.2m with the entire decline being volumes.
We do not believe, given the wider state of the accounted for by the ending of a three year government economy and the specific challenges of the mortgage market, contract at the start of 2010. that 2011 will see any substantial increase in transaction volumes as compared to 2009 and 2010.
While further big Margin growth 1 2 reductions in the number of agents and developers cannot The underlying operating margin for the year increased 1 2 be ruled out, the current very low levels of transactions and from 62.9% to 69.4%.
Underlying operating costs only success of our customers in trading this far through the increased by 1.1m from 23.9m to 25.0m, which coupled downturn give us some grounds for thinking that membership with the significant organic revenue growth, delivered the year numbers are unlikely to fall significantly.
on year step change in margin.
Some of the future organic revenue growth we hope to 1 2 achieve is likely to come from the creation of new advertising underlying operating margin % products and therefore depends on our ability to develop attractive and effective new products.
However, there remains YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED substantial opportunity to increase revenue from increased 31 DECEMBER 2010 31 DECEMBER 2009 31 DECEMBER 2008 adoption of the existing products.
From our inception, Rightmove has experienced a regular % % % 69.4 62.9 57.8 flow of new entrants into the property advertising market whether explicitly seeking to compete with us or not.
They have exhibited a range of business models including free to 11 rightmove plc annual report 2010 Where sellers get started Rightmove users can type in a specific postcode or area to see property records with Land Registry sold prices all presented on a map or in a list.
business and financial review continued Bad debt earnings per share 1 During the year the net bad debt charge was 0.6m Basic earnings per share EPS increased 34% to 35.7p 2009: 0.2m.
The increase in the charge is due to a one-off 2009: 26.7p and is based on profit after taxation and a write off of 0.2m in relation to a media agency that went into weighted average of 108.0m ordinary shares in issue 1 2 liquidation and a modest increase in the bad debt provision.
taxation The consolidated tax rate from continuing operations for Profit on disposal of HLL the year ended 31 December 2010 was 26% 2009: 21%.
A profit of 19.5m has been recorded in relation to the trading The difference between this and the standard rate of tax at over the year and disposal of the Groups 66.7% stake in HLL.
28% is mainly attributable to the increase in the deferred tax This comprises HLLs profit after tax for the six months to asset on share-based incentives due to the increase in the June 2010 of 0.8m plus a profit of 18.7m in relation to Company share price over the year, together with tax relief the sale.
on share options exercised during the year.
Statement of financial position Share-based payments and national insurance Due to the strong financial performance and cash In accordance with IFRS 2, a non-cash charge of 1.8m generation during the year, the Group has further 2009: 1.9m is included in the profit or loss representing strengthened its balance sheet with total equity of 27.9m the amortisation of the fair value of share-based incentives at 31 December 2010 2009: 3.2m.
granted, including Sharesave options, since 2006.
The increase in current trade and other receivables of 27% Employers NationaI Insurance NI is being accrued, where from 9.4m to 11.9m is in line with revenue growth applicable, at a rate of 13.8% on the potential employee gain experienced in the year.
Trade and other payables increased on share-based incentives granted.
Based on a closing share from 13.9m to 16.0m principally due to an increase in price at 31 December 2010 of 7.79 this resulted in a charge the potential liability for employers NI on share-based for the year of 2.7m 2009: 1.3m.
Net financial expenses Cash flow and net debt A net financial credit of 0.2m 2009: 0.9m charge was Cash generated from operations was 58.8m 2009: 46.2m recorded.
This reduction reflects a combination of lower and cash flow conversion was in excess of 100%.
interest charges due to the early repayment of the loan with Lower interest paid of 0.1m 2009: 0.7m was offset by the Bank of Scotland in February 2010, the release of an increased taxes paid of 12.2m 2009: 10.8m resulting in accrual made in 2009 in relation to debt issue costs and net cash from operating activities of 46.5m 2009: 34.7m.
interest earned on positive cash balances held during the year.
13 rightmove plc annual report 2010 Mobile platforms Since its launch in August 2009, there have been over one million downloads of our iPhone app.
our iPad app was launched in May 2010, again proving to be the property market leader with 100,000 downloads to date.
business and financial review continued Capital expenditure was 1.2m 2009: 0.3m reflecting Current trading and outlook increased investment in database licences and a disk We started 2011 with record levels of activity on the storage solution.
Almost every day since the first Initial net proceeds of 13.3m were received in relation to working Monday of the year has seen stronger site traffic than the disposal of HLL, which were returned to shareholders via on any other day prior to 2011.
January 2011 has seen us share buy backs.
send a record number of enquiries to our advertisers.
The A total of 29.4m was invested during 2010 in the growth in mobile traffic continues to be strong and increases repurchase of our own shares 2009: 5.5m whilst a further at an even faster rate than for the main website.
13.0m was paid by way of dividends 2009: 10.9m to the Average spend per advertiser started the year very Companys shareholders.
Proceeds of 3.9m 2009: 5.4m healthily and is expected to rise further over the coming were received on the exercise of share options.
Overall advertiser numbers are stable, at similar During 2009, the Group converted its 25.0m revolving levels to late 2010. loan facility with the Bank of Scotland into a five year term We believe that trends favouring online advertising will loan.
In February 2010, a decision was made to repay the continue to buoy Rightmoves own growth prospects despite debt.
A total of 22.5m loan repayments were made in the difficult housing market conditions.
Subject to there being no year 2009: 17.2m.
further decline in the UK housing market, the Board remains Post repayment of the term loan, the Group entered into an confident of making significant progress in growing the agreement with Barclays Bank Plc for a 10.0m uncommitted business organically in 2011. money market loan.
To date no amount has been drawn under the facility and it has been extended for a further year until February 2012.
The Board is confident that with the existing Ed Williams Nick McKittrick cash resources and banking facilities in place, the Group and Managing Director Chief Operating Officer and the Company will remain cash positive and will have adequate Finance Director resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Boards priorities for the usage of cash are: investment in the business: payment of dividends: and the return of excess cash to shareholders via share buy backs.
The Board believes that future working capital and capital expenditure requirements of the business will continue to be low and that 1 From continuing operations.
Comparative figures have been restated the business will be in a position to return surplus capital to where necessary to reflect the treatment of Holiday Lettings as a shareholders during 2011 through a combination of dividends discontinued operation.
2 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
