Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC 8 Business Review: Business & Financial Review Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 This Business and Financial Review BFR has been prepared Business by the Board of Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC the Company solely for the members of & Financial Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC.
Review Robert Wiseman Dairies procures, processes and delivers more than 30% of the fresh liquid milk consumed in Britain every day.
Our mission is to meet our customers needs for quality fresh milk products every day.
Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC Business Review: Business & Financial Review 9 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 23.6% Cash generated from operations up 23.6% at 83.1 million.
Throughout this review the Board makes forward We want to be a sustainable business but what does that looking statements.
Such statements are by their nature really mean to us.
We have seven different objectives that inherently predictive, speculative and involve risk and we believe require to be balanced in order for us to have uncertainty as they relate to events and circumstances a sustainable business.
These seven objectives shape our that are expected to occur, based on the knowledge approach to achieving our mission.
In no particular order and information available to the Directors at the date these are: this BFR was prepared.
Meet and exceed customers needs for details see As one would expect, the predicted events and information contained within this review.
circumstances may differ significantly from actual events Profitable growth for details see information and circumstances over the next year.
The Board does not contained within this review.
intend to update any of the forward looking statements Consistently improving shareholder returns for contained in the BFR during the course of the financial details see information contained within this review.
year ending 2 April 2011 but it shall reconsider these Industry leading environmental performance statements in the preparation of the BFR for next year.
for details see information contained within the This is without prejudice to the Companys obligations Environmental section of this Annual Report.
to issue statements to the market.
Treat employees fairly and ensure that they have the This BFR has been prepared for the Group as a whole skills, ability and tools to do their job for details see and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters information contained within the Wiseman in the which are significant to Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC and Community section of this Annual Report.
its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
Create, maintain and enhance partnerships with our suppliers for details see information contained The BFR discusses the following areas: within the Wiseman in the Community section of Long term strategy and business objectives this Annual Report.
Business review Make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate for details see information Commercial contained within the Wiseman in the Community Supply Chain section of this Annual Report.
Milk Procurement Financial review We monitor our performance against the strategy by means of the following key performance indicators KPIs.
Principal risks and uncertainties Resources 2010 2009 2009 Long term strategy and business objectives 52 week v 52 week 53 week 52 week Robert Wiseman Dairies procures, processes and delivers Commercial more than 30% of the fresh liquid milk consumed in Sales volume growth 11.2% 6.9% 4.9% Britain every day.
In doing Operational so we will look to maximise the benefits generated Dairy efficiency 61.5% 67.8% 67.8% for our shareholders, employees and suppliers whilst Delivery accuracy 99.9% 99.9% 99.9% minimising our environmental impacts.
Financial Adjusted operating profit ppl 2.74 2.17 2.17 Adjusted EPS growth 51.10% 8.35% 10.08% Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC 10 Business Review: Business & Financial Review Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Volume is the volume of litres of milk sold in each million litres of additional business.
Further to being As a result of higher sales period.
This is calculated directly by the sales system.
named as the Co-operative Groups Supreme Supplier of the Year for 2009, it is pleasing to report that we volumes we continue to Dairy efficiency is an internal measurement of the have recently agreed an extension to our contract.
machine efficiency of the filling equipment in our Our contractual arrangements now run to August 2011 increase the number of four main dairies, which account for 93% of Group and our volumes are to increase by around 30 million production.
2010 is the first year that we have included litres per annum from August 2010.
Further to these suppliers in our Wiseman Bridgwater in this calculation despite the fact that this changes, we will supply circa 75% of The Co-operative site is still in the process of being expanded, excluding Milk Group and, during the Groups requirements.
Bridgwater would have resulted in a dairy efficiency figure of 67.3%.
In June 2009 we also successfully gained additional year, this grew to 950 with supplies to two large Spar distributors, Capper & Co Delivery accuracy is the order fulfilment % of deliveries a further number scheduled Ltd and Blakemore.
We have successfully serviced these to all of our customers and is calculated by dividing customers and I am pleased to report that we have to join us this year.
the number of units delivered to and accepted by recently agreed to extend our contracts with both the customer by the number of units ordered by the wholesalers.
Our volumes also benefited from the full customer.
This measurement excludes delivery failures year impact of securing 100% of Nettos business in which have occurred due to the failure of third parties to the previous year.
We have now agreed our supply supply the product to the Group for onward delivery to arrangements with Netto for this volume into 2012. the customer as we have no control over this situation.
Dairy Farmers of Britain, which was active in the middle Adjusted operating Profit ppl is the average underlying ground, exited processing last June.
The middle ground operating profit generated by each litre of milk sold and sector remains extremely competitive.
is calculated by dividing Operating Profit, as adjusted to As highlighted previously, due to a shortage of supplies remove the effect of one off non-recurring items such as across Europe, bulk cream prices spiked during the the release of the provision in respect of the OFT penalty, second half-year.
Cream returns peaked in October by the number of litres of milk sold in the period.
and trended down towards the end of the financial Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing year.
Prices edged up in April and we wait to see Profit for the period from continuing operations as what direction they move in the forthcoming months, adjusted to remove the effect of one off items which given the potential of further volatility impacting our have a significant distorting effect, being the reduction operating margins.
of the previously reported regulatory penalty from the Supply chain Office of Fair Trading, the impact of the fair value of Our supply chain performed admirably across the year.
interest rate swaps in both years and non-recurring The significant investment made at Bridgwater and items impacting the tax charge in the prior year, Amesbury provides us with the basis to fulfil our by the weighted average number of shares in issue ambitions for further growth.
The creation of our new integrated Supply Chain division Commercial has worked extremely well and was a particular benefit The record volumes in the year reflect the impact of to the business over the busy Christmas and New Year volume gains in the last two years and growth across period, with closer co-ordination between departments our existing customer base.
being evident and leading to improved service levels to We were gratified to receive three Value Awards from our customers.
This co-ordinated approach, together Tesco, our largest customer, during the year: in relation with the commitment of our staff, ensured that we to its Creamfields product, the development of its Pure maximised our milk collection, processing and deliveries range and excellent service through the difficult winter to customers throughout the adverse weather earlier conditions.
We were pleased to be able to supply in the year.
Tesco with its new Creamfields 0.75% milk product, We continue to review in detail the opportunity to which has proved highly successful.
In addition, we are implement a new Enterprise Resource Planning System delighted to partner Tesco in its plans to continue the to assist in the Supply Chain processes and are currently substantial growth in the sales of its Tesco Pure milk in discussions with potential suppliers.
which is filtered to be fresher for longer.
Sales of this product in our final quarter were up significantly Increased capacity at our Bridgwater dairy came on compared to the previous year and this resulted in us stream in November 2009 on time and within budget.
running close to our existing capacity for this product This resulted in us comfortably handling the seasonal type.
Following discussions with Tesco about its plans peaks at Christmas and New Year holiday periods.
for continued growth of this product type, we are Elsewhere, Manchester and Droitwich have processed delighted to announce that we are investing 8.0 record volumes in the last year.
These sites, along with million to double our processing and filling capacity our other dairies, are running well and are benefiting for filtered milk.
from our continued capital expenditure programme.
We were extremely pleased to be awarded a three-year We continue to improve energy and water efficiencies extension to our contract that maintains our existing and reduce the generation of waste to landfill.
share of the Sainsburys fresh milk business, which will From November 2010 we will have installed the final commence in October 2010.
375m phase of capacity at Bridgwater and will have in place Bridgwater dairy production The main contributing factor to our volume growth total Group processing capacity of over 2 billion litres capacity increased to 375 was the large gain with The Co-operative Group, based on six-day working.
The introduction of the new million litres per annum.
which commenced in June 2009 following the collapse filtered milk line, which will be located in Droitwich, of Dairy Farmers of Britain, and amounted to 116 will further increase capacity and we will continue to Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC Business Review: Business & Financial Review 11 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 This year has been characterised by strong volume growth, improved bulk cream returns and continued cost control, which has helped to offset some of the increasing oil related cost inflation we have seen in the second half of the year.
Billy Keane, Group Finance Director consider what further investment is required to In the last six months we have seen increases in oil As a result of higher sales volumes we continue to accommodate the growth we envisage beyond related costs, with the cost of High Density Polyethylene increase the number of suppliers in our Wiseman Milk these levels.
Costs per tonne are now Group and, during the year, this grew to 950 with a running at over 1,050, a 14% increase compared further number scheduled to join us this year.
Given the Our new distribution site at Amesbury in Wiltshire to the average cost in 2009 10.
Fuel costs continue strong growth in the Companys sales, the proportion opened in November 2009, on schedule and on to rise and, following the recent upward trend in oil provided by direct suppliers has been relatively stable budget, and we have been gradually building the costs and fuel duty, we are once more paying over 1 and this currently represents circa 60% of our total number of runs operating from this facility.
Following per litre excluding VAT for our diesel.
the completion of the planned transfer of existing this equates to a 14% increase compared to 2009 10. deliveries to this depot, it is now distributing the Our procurement policy has been, and continues to be, equivalent of 115 million litres per annum.
This allows The increased cost of fuel has made projects such as to strike a balance between supplies from our own Milk us to more efficiently serve the South East of England our ISOTRAK investment more beneficial and we now Group farms and the Milk Co-operatives.
We aim to and will help improve efficiencies in our distribution monitor the fuel consumption of every vehicle on a increase the percentage from our direct farms over the during the year ahead.
This has been highly successful in improving next eighteen months, in order to achieve an improved our overall miles per gallon by circa 5%, offsetting part long-term security of supply.
Given this objective, we are Elsewhere, our other depots have coped admirably with planning to expand our raw milk reload depot at Market of the increased fuel costs incurred in the year.
the increased business gains over the last twelve months Drayton at a cost of circa 1.5 million.
with record volumes being distributed across a number Milk procurement of sites.
We recently rationalised our distribution sites Milk supply generally across the United Kingdom Our milk prices have been unusually stable over the by relocating our Okehampton distribution operation continues to decline slowly.
It is interesting to contrast last twelve months, with the only movement being an to Bridgwater.
this with the growth that can be seen from dedicated additional 0.3 ppl to our direct milk suppliers in August supply groups such as the Tesco Sustainable Dairy 2009.
As reported previously, bulk cream and related Following successful long-term trials in Scotland, we Group and the Sainsbury Dairy Development Group, commodities such as butter, enjoyed an uplift in value are rolling out hand held computers for all our drivers where volumes have actually shown an increase.
Although prices weakened across the Group to improve the efficiency of deliveries reflects the improved confidence from a retailer supply early in 2010, they are once again on the increase and and minimise the associated administration.
contract and credit is due to our major customers who putting upward pressure on farm-gate milk prices.
To are embracing this concept.
Similar to our plans with processing, we now have date there have been no significant moves in the milk capacity to distribute over 2 billion litres of milk and prices paid by other processors and we have, for the can accommodate growth in the Companys sales last ten months, topped the milk price table for the volumes over the forthcoming years.
Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC 12 Business Review: Business & Financial Review Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 FINANCIAL REVIEW in the 52 weeks ended 3 April 2010 a 1.9 million Volumes have increased Overview non-recurring item in respect of reduction in OFT This year has been characterised by strong volume penalties has been removed.
year-on-year by 9.1% 147 growth, improved bulk cream returns and continued in the 52 and 53 weeks ended 4 April 2009 the cost control, which has helped to offset some of the million litres : excluding the impact arising from the loss of Industrial Buildings increasing oil related cost inflation we have seen in the Allowances, one off tax credits in respect of the additional week this is an second half of the year.
settlement of outstanding tax planning initiatives Below is the comparison of the results against the prior and the availability of previously unrecognised tax 11.2% like-for-like increase.
year for both the actual 2009 10 53 week period and losses along with the impact of the fair value of the the pro rata 52 week period: interest rate swaps has been removed which results in an improvement in profitability of 16.2 million.
The only other current year adjustment, in addition 52 wk to 53 wk to 52 wk to to the OFT penalty impact described above, is the 3 April 4 April 4 April Period 2010 2009 2009 removal of the impact of the fair value of the interest rate swaps resulting in a reduction in Turnover volume profitability of 0.2 million.
million litres 1,770 1,622 1,592 Turnover All of the narrative explanation that follows in respect millions 886.2 847.7 831.7 of the income statement relates to the actual income statement for the 52 week period ended 3 April 2010 Operating profit compared to the 53 week period ended 4 April 2009. millions 50.3 35.1 34.5 As much as possible we have explained the impact of Adjusted operating profit the extra week in the prior year on the results.
millions 48.4 35.1 34.5 Volumes have increased year-on-year by 9.1% 147 Adjusted operating million litres : excluding the additional week this is an profit margins 5.46% 4.15% 4.15% 11.2% like-for-like increase.
Turnover has increased by Operating profit ppl 2.84 2.17 2.17 38.5 million 4.5% to 886.2 million 2009: 847.7 Adjusted operating profit million : excluding the additional week this is a 6.6% ppl 2.74 2.17 2.17 increase.
Therefore, the movement in the current year EPS pence 50.13 9.19 9.02 reflects a combination of higher volumes and a lower average sales price.
Adjusted EPS pence 47.22 31.84 31.24 Cash generated from Whilst adjusted operating profit margins demonstrate operations millions 83.1 67.2 66.0 a significant improvement in the performance of the business in the current year, a large proportion of this Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC Business Review: Business & Financial Review 13 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 arises from the higher bulk cream revenues in the Balance sheet review Dairies and depots exactly second half of the year.
These helped offset increased In the current period the Company has invested 34.1 where they should be... fuel and plastic costs in the period.
The net impact million in additions to property, plant and equipment.
of these factors was a 5.0 million improvement in The main projects undertaken were 10.0 million on H Head office operating profit in the second half-year.
Excluding this motor vehicles, 9.7 million on the new distribution site factor, operating margins were 4.90% reflecting the at Amesbury, a further 8.1 million at Bridgwater on Milk fields by density additional efficiencies generated in the period.
completion of Phase II and commencement of Phase III and further investment in our Manchester dairy of P Dairies The previously reported penalty arising from our 1.6 million.
settlement of an OFT investigation has now been D Distribution depots Inventories have increased year-on-year by 1.9 million.
reduced by an agreed 1.9 million and this has been M Milk procurement centre recognised within non-recurring administrative This reflects a 2.1 million increase in raw materials expenses in the current year.
offset by a 0.2 million decrease in finished product.
Included in raw materials was a 1.6 million increase One of the Key Performance Indicators for the Company in packaging stock reflecting an increased number is the pence per litre ppl operating profit generated.
of trolleys and the higher cost of packaging at the The current year has seen us continue the progress year-end.
made in improving this measure via a combination of strong volume growth, higher cream revenues and There has been a significant movement in trade and increased efficiencies to achieve an adjusted operating other receivables, which has increased year-on-year by profit of 2.74ppl for the year to 3 April 2010.
If the net 15.5 million from 61.1 million to 76.6 million.
This is 5.0 million benefit of higher cream revenues offset due to an increase of 15.0 million in trade receivables by increased fuel and plastic costs is excluded, the and a rise of 1.1 million in VAT due, offset by a 0.6 operating profit per litre was 2.45 ppl, which remains million decline in prepayments and other receivables.
a substantial improvement on the previous year.
The increase in trade receivables does not reflect any deterioration in our underlying cash collection, which Interest remains strong.
Payments were impacted by the The further reduction in net debt from 25.8 million, year-end falling at Easter and the associated bank as at 4 April 2009, to 21.1 million, as at 3 April 2010, holidays.
In addition there has been a reduction in highlights the strong cash management controls of the the accelerated collection of receipts from customers Group.
The cash flow has benefited from the increased at our year-end.
As a result, the year-end position more volume of business in the current year and reduction in closely represents our normal period end debt with capital expenditure.
Net interest costs reduced by 3.2 debtors days measured against the last two months million, of which 2.1 million reflects the impact of fair of the year being 28.6 days 2009: 23.6 days.
While valuing of interest rates swaps and the remainder the this is an increase, the actual period to recover money lower level of borrowings.
Tax Trade and other payables has increased by 25.0 The tax charge for the year was 13.4 million 2009: million to 118.8 million from 93.8 million in April 24.2 million.
The previous year was increased by 2009.
Included in this movement is a 7.9 million 17.1 million due to a change in legislation to phase increase in trade creditors, reflecting the increased out Industrial Buildings Allowance.
It decreased by costs of the Group associated with the higher volumes 2.1 million in respect of the agreement with HMRC and capital expenditure payments.
In addition, there is of certain planning initiatives and the recognition of a 15.4 million increase in accruals due to the timing of the benefit of previously unrecognised tax losses in an payments.
The benefit of these factors contributes to acquired subsidiary undertaking.
The effective tax rate the strong cash flow in the period.
in the current year of 27.3% benefits from the reduction in the regulatory penalty not being taxable.
Excluding The provisions balance has reduced from 6.1 million these various items, the tax charge for the year increased to 4.2 million, reflecting the adjustment made to the to 13.4 million from 9.2 million, but the effective tax anticipated costs of the OFT settlement that will be rate has reduced from 30.1% to 28.4%.
payable when the OFT issues its decision, which is expected in Summer 2010.
Earnings Per Share EPS Basic EPS is showing a significant improvement from Derivatives represent the liability associated with two Net assets at 3 April 2010 9.19p last year to 50.13p in the current period.
In interest rate swaps for 10 million each, which were arriving at Adjusted basic EPS in the current year entered into when interest rates were higher than stood at 139.6 million, we have taken account of the reduction in the OFT current levels.
Due to the continued low interest rates penalty, which impacts this figure by 2.61p, and the during the year, the fair value of these instruments is a rise of 5.1 million since positive impact of fair valuing the interest rate swaps in a liability of 1.4 million 2009: 1.7 million.
place, which impacts this figure by 0.30p.
The increase The Company issued 527,295 shares in the period to Adjusted basic EPS figure took account of the negative satisfy share option arrangements and bought back impact of the withdrawal of IBAs that impacted this in net assets is due to 2,465,000 shares for cancellation at a cost of 11.9 figure by 23.82p, the positive impact arising from tax million, an average cost of 4.83 per share.
profitability of the business credits that impacted EPS by 2.97p and the negative impact of fair valuing the interest rate swaps in place Net assets at 3 April 2010 stood at 139.6 million, during the year offset by that impacted this figure by 1.80p.
Adjusted basic a rise of 5.1 million since 4 April 2009.
The increase earnings per share in the current year stands at 47.22p, in net assets is due to profitability of the business increased dividend and a rise of 15.38p year-on-year reflecting the improved during the year offset by increased dividend and trading performance achieved.
Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC 14 Business Review: Business & Financial Review Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 of the relationship with these customers could have a detrimental effect upon the financial performance of the Group.
In order to manage this risk, the Group focuses heavily on delivering a high quality product on time.
We maintain regular contact with all of our customers and members of the Operational Board and the Board meet with individual management from our key customers throughout the year.
Manufacturing capacity During the current period our dairies continued to operate at high volumes and levels of efficiency.
With the commissioning of our new dairy at Bridgwater, there was initially a reduction of this risk due to the ability of the Group to move increased volume around the Group internally.
However, the increased volume gains achieved during the year has meant that any significant excess capacity at any site was utilised.
Phase III at Bridgwater is currently being undertaken to provide increased volume, although we would hope to fill this extra capacity within a short time.
Therefore part of the risk associated with our success in delivering growth means that in the next couple of years we would expect the higher level of risk regarding available capacity to return and to be spread over our five main dairies.
The Group has recovery plans for the most likely situations and staff are trained to ensure that were any such event to arise we could react in the most appropriate manner.
Information technology The Group continues to invest heavily on improvements to production and communication facilities.
In the The Group has continued to current period the main focus has been on the new capacity at Bridgwater, our new depot in Amesbury generate strong operational cash and assessing the risk and opportunities offered by flows.
Earnings before interest, a new Enterprise Resource Planning System.
We have also continued to make significant upgrades to our tax, depreciation and amortisation production facilities to ensure that they remain the most efficient and technologically advanced in increased to 75.3 million.
However, this increases the Groups risk of reliance on IT systems and processes.
In order to mitigate this risk to an acceptable level, the Group has continued to invest in additional IT personnel and Cash flow and net debt Summary IT security to ensure that we are as well protected as The Group has continued to generate strong operational This has been a record year in terms of volume, turnover we practically can be from IT viruses and downtime.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and profits and has benefited from unexpected gains in Raw materials and amortisation increased to 75.3 million 2009: cream revenues and the OFT penalty reduction.
These With 96.5% of our sales of milk by volume being in 59.9 million.
Benefiting from the increased operating factors have helped offset the impact of rising costs polybottles year ended April 2009: 95.7% the Group profits, cash generated from operations has increased experienced during the year.
Whilst cost pressures is exposed to fluctuations in HDPE resin price.
In addition by 15.9 million year-on-year to a record 83.1 million continued to rise throughout the second half of the to the impact of an increase in global demand for this 2009: 67.2 million.
year and into the current year, the Group has a strong resin, it has been clearly demonstrated in the current customer base and excellent facilities to help counter The Group entered into 6.7 million of finance leases period that it can also be subject to significant these pressures.
These arrangements are for five years fluctuations on account of it being an oil related at fixed borrowing rates thereby hedging an element Principal risks and uncertainties commodity.
We have established strong working of the Groups future interest cost.
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties relations with our polybottle suppliers and believe that which we have identified within the business that could we are managing this risk as fully as is commercially Despite continuing to invest heavily in property, plant have a material impact on the Groups long-term practical given a suitable hedging arrangement has and equipment in the current year 26.4 million, performance.
These are not all of the risks which the not been identified in relation to these costs.
further share buybacks 11.9 million and an increase Directors have identified, but those that the Directors in the level of dividend due to the timing of payments Oil related costs currently consider are material.
increase of 9.2 million to 20.0 million, net debt at In addition to the fluctuations in the plastic resin costs the period end has reduced by 4.7 million to 21.1 Commercial relationships caused by fluctuations in oil prices, the Group is also million which represents gearing of only 15.1%.
We have developed close working relationships with exposed to fluctuations arising from movements in all of our customers.
However, a large percentage of the price of diesel.
The Group operates over 1,400 We were delighted to continue our long-term the Groups sales are made to Multiple Retailers and, commercial vehicles and diesel is a significant cost relationship with the Clydesdale Bank.
We renewed in the period to 3 April 2010, 73% of our total milk within the Groups operations.
In the past we have taken our 80 million Revolving Credit facility through to sales by volume was concentrated in five key customers out hedges in respect of a proportion of our diesel cost November 2012 and also have in place a 20 million year ended 4 April 2009: 76%.
Damage to, or loss in order to mitigate our exposure to these fluctuations.
overdraft facility renewable in November 2010.
Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC Business Review: Business & Financial Review 15 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 We continue to review the appropriateness of these capital equipment from, or in selling products to, overseas Employees with extensive knowledge of arrangements and further hedge arrangements may countries is to fix its liability in pounds Sterling when customers and markets in which we operate be entered into as considered appropriate.
orders are placed using foreign exchange contracts.
While the Group continues to invest in facilities and equipment we also continue to invest in our people.
Management of interest rate risk Commodity priced products We have an extensive training programme that we Historically the policy of the Group has been to hedge The Group produces bulk cream as a by-product of the offer throughout the Groups operations for all levels around 40% to 60% of the core borrowings.
We have liquid milk process in its dairies.
This product either goes of staff.
We believe that by investing in our staff, in place two interest rate hedges, one a three year into pot cream or bulk cream sales.
The bulk cream sales and retaining quality staff, we are well positioned 10 million floating to fixed rate hedge and the other are sold via a mix of long term arrangements or monthly to provide an excellent service and react effectively a five year 10 million floating to fixed rate hedge.
deals but in both circumstances the selling prices track to any issues which may arise.
The year-end debt was 21.1 million compared to the the current market prices.
During the year there were 20.0 million of hedged balances and, as a result, the Close relationship with our key suppliers significant fluctuations in the commodity prices achieved Group has hedged balances inconsistent with its policy The Group continues to develop strategic relations with for bulk cream and such fluctuations can result in in this area.
However, there are no intentions to either its key suppliers such as the Wiseman Milk Group, First significant adjustments to the profitability of the group.
increase the level of borrowing or buy-out the hedges Milk, Milk Link, OMSCO, Nampak, Alpla, Tetra Pak and In the current year the value of bulk cream has been at present.
We continue to review the appropriateness Closures.
The Group believes that by forging strong significantly higher than in the prior year resulting in of our interest rate policy and our hedging policy relations with its suppliers, it is well placed to provide improved profitability in the current year.
a high quality service to its customers.
Environmental risk Regulatory risk Strong corporate reputation for quality products Whilst we are focused on improving our environmental It remains the Group policy to ensure that employees and service impact at all sites, the nature of the product means are aware of their responsibilities under all applicable The Group prides itself in ensuring there is quality that we have significant environmental impacts from regulatory requirements, including Competition Law in everything we do, from product development to packaging types to method of delivery to the customer.
and their associated compliance is monitored through production techniques to distribution service.
The Group We continue to work with industry bodies, within our the year.
As part of our compliance procedure for continues to invest in projects that support the brand own business and with our suppliers, to constantly Competition Law, we organise formal training sessions and maintain quality throughout the Groups operations.
for all sales department employees on a regular basis.
By order of the Board Financial risk Adequacy of resources The treasury function is managed centrally to support The Group has the following key resources which assist the operating activities of the Group.
Its primary role it in the pursuit of its key objectives: is to ensure that adequate resources are available to meet the funding requirements for the Group on a Investment in facilities and equipment day-to-day basis and that financial risk arising from the Employees with extensive knowledge of customers Robert Wiseman Billy Keane Groups underlying operations is effectively identified and markets in which we operate Chief Executive Group Finance Director and managed.
Close relationships with our key suppliers 17 May 2010 17 May 2010 Management of credit risk Strong corporate reputation for quality products The Group has a large percentage of its business and service.
concentrated in a small number of Multiple Retailers Investment in facilities and equipment and this is also reflected in our trade receivable In the last ten years the Group has invested a total of balances.
The credit risk associated with our trade 308.7 million in new land and buildings, dairy receivables balance is limited because the customers equipment, depots, vehicles and IT infrastructure and are either large corporations with high credit ratings this has provided us with modern and efficient facilities or we have credit insurance in place to mitigate the in the right locations to enable us to continuously risk of exposure.
provide quality goods in a quality manner to all of our Management of foreign exchange risk customers.
The investment has also enabled the Group The Group has no significant exposure to foreign to maximise its scale, minimise wastage and operate at exchange risks.
The Groups policy when purchasing record levels of efficiency throughout its operations.
