6 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business Review Rotork actuators are used to control the flow of liquids and gases in many different applications across many different end-user markets.
Rotorks markets are often described as oil & gas, power and water as these are the sectors with the greatest requirement for actuators.
However, our products can also be found in many other industrial applications Peter France Chief Executive including food and beverage manufacturing, chemicals, mining and shipboard systems.
Our customers are located throughout understand the importance of actuators to the world and in order to provide the local the overall running of their operations, and support our customers require, so are recognise the need to use products that we.
Rotork has 105 offices across 30 perform reliably, and most of all safely.
countries, which are supplemented by a further 254 sales outlets, bringing the Overall, order intake was 381.9m, up total number of countries with a Rotork 17.0% compared with 2009.
From its foundation, strong improvements were reported by our Rotork has brought new technology to businesses in the Netherlands 123%, actuators and continues to set new Italy 32% and China 27%, with all standards in developing innovative, regions showing growth.
Removing the , high quality positive impacts of currency and the Hiller products within each of its divisions.
acquisition, order intake was 12.9% ahead of the prior year.
The final component of Rotorks business model is the method of manufacture.
The revenue split between half years We outsource component manufacture, returned to a more customary weighting so most of our manufacturing plants buy Top: GP pneumatic in favour of the second half as the actuators, LNG marine components in a relatively finished form.
improvement in orders took effect.
In total, import jetty, Chile.
These are then assembled to meet the revenue advanced 7.6% to 380.6m Bottom Left: CVArequirements of a particular customer which, excluding the effects of currency control valve actuator, tar order.
This provides the necessary flexibility distillation plant, Australia.
in the sourcing of components that The closing order book was 138.9m, Bottom Right: Profibussupports our 17 worldwide manufacturing enabled IQ actuators, UK up 9.9m from the start of the year, sewage treatment works.
operations and ensures we maintain a high including the 5.1m order book acquired return on capital employed.
Operating margins reduced by 0.2 percentage points to 25.7%, mainly as a result of higher amortisation costs.
Year under review Return on sales, as defined in our key In the same way that some parts of performance indicators, was maintained the world were more severely affected at 25.7% and profit before taxation rose than others by the economic disruption 7.6% to 97.9m.
of 2009, the start of the year saw a wide variation in the rate at which they The establishment of the Rotork Innovation rebounded.
In the first quarter, Rotork saw Design and Engineering Centre RIDEC, order intake return to near the previous based in India, supplements our alreadypeak.
However, the pattern of demand was growing divisional engineering teams uneven and customers kept their budgets and provides the opportunity to improve under tight control, this particularly the capacity and speed of our product affected Rotork Fluid Systems where our development.
India has also benefited competitors were pricing most aggressively from one new factory during 2010, in in order to rebuild their order books.
The Bangalore, and we are now in the process fact that we continued to make progress of building another in Chennai.
The is testament to the tremendous hard Bangalore plant has provided space for work of our employees, and customers the Gears division to start assembly in appreciating the benefits of Rotorks India.
The factory in Chennai will replace products and services.
Although the cost of an actuator can be insignificant in the an ageing facility which has been making electric actuators for over 30 years.
total cost of a project, our customers Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 Through these two world-class facilities, Rotork Fluid Systems Controls our Indian operations will be even better Since its formation as a stand-alone placed to tackle this large and still-growing division in 2001, revenue in Rotork Fluid market.
Elsewhere, in China, we have Systems RFS has risen to 106.8m, Strong results from enlarged our factory in Shanghai and, up 7.1% in the year.
Although this growth BRIC countries in the US, will shortly relocate to larger has been assisted by acquisitions, the premises in Houston.
Both businesses more significant benefits have been Production have outgrown their existing sites.
We have derived from the integration of each also expanded our operations in the Middle acquired business into the Group, and commenced in new East, moving to a new facility in Saudi their use of our existing sales channels.
Bangalore factory Arabia and increasing Rotorks presence RFS supplies pneumatic and hydraulic in the region.
We will look to develop this powered actuators and control systems Active downstream further in 2011. from its seven factories and through a further seven Centres of Excellence, oil & gas market Looking at our main markets, and the where added value services can be underlying factors supporting investment in provided to the local customer.
oil & gas, power and water infrastructure, there is reason to be confident in the RFS is the division most focused on Fluid Systems prospects of each both in the medium the oil & gas market, and having felt and long-term.
Through our broad the biggest decline in orders in 2009, geographic coverage and product portfolio it has now seen the biggest rebound, Revenue breaks we remain focused on meeting our with order intake up 35.1% in 2010 and 100million for the customers growing needs.
However, we the order book increasing to 45.9m.
first time still see opportunities to expand our direct We have continued to strengthen our presence in new territories whether engineering and R&D infrastructure and through acquisition, as we recently have in at the same time invest in improving Strong recovery in Mexico, or organically as in Brazil.
When the cost of these order intake we continue to seek suitable opportunities initiatives are combined with the pricing to expand our product offering, both pressure experienced earlier in the year, organically and through acquisition.
they outweighed the benefits gained Strengthened through operational gearing and material engineering and Rotork Controls cost control, resulting in a reduction R&D infrastructure Rotork Controls, which manufactures and in operating margins to 12.4%, down sells the electric actuators on which Rotork 1.9 percentage points.
RFS is now originally built its name, still accounts for better placed to capitalise on project Acquisition of 63.9% of the Groups sales and remains opportunities and operational gearing Ralph A. Hiller the highest margin division.
In the year, remains a key determinant of the order intake increased by 9.1% and divisions margins.
The closing order book was 85.8m, up 1.2%.
Rotork Gears Rotork Gears supplies manual and Controls has the widest end-market motorized gearboxes and ancillaries to the Gears exposure and improved activity levels were valve industry.
Unlike the Controls and RFS seen across all sectors.
Within oil & gas, divisions, where sales are project-focused, Positive material electric actuators are found in greater this division sells direct to valvemakers numbers on downstream and transmission through long-term supply agreements, cost management applications, and tank storage was and with deliveries at regular intervals.
particularly strong in the year.
We also saw These customers buy from Rotork due to Margin recovery on an improving trend in the water market, the guarantee of quality and reliability of higher revenue reversing the position at the half year.
supply, as the alternative is often their own small-scale gearbox production or local Operating profit increased by 8.5% to independent vendors.
We can also typically Growth of third party 78.8m with margins fractionally higher provide cost savings due to the scale of order intake at 32.4%.
This division was less affected our operations and worldwide delivery from by the pricing pressure felt earlier in the the six Gears factories.
year and has been able to use the benefit of operational gearing to offset the costs Revenue from third party sales rose 14.8% of investing in new facilities and people.
in the year to 30.4m as a result of an These investments position the division increased sales effort in a number of for further growth.
At the same time, our developing markets and the successful outsourced manufacturing model has launch of new products.
Total revenue for meant that modest cost increases from this division increased at a lesser rate, up commodity price rises have been mostly 6.5% to 39.2m, reflecting lower sales to offset by sourcing initiatives.
Operating margins had been under pressure in 2009 but 8 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business Review the combination of higher revenue and ethical and safety standards across the drive to reduce material costs, even the Group and acting as a responsible against a commodity cost headwind, saw international corporate entity.
To provide short-term focus, we agree Rotork Site Services a set of key objectives, the broad areas Our after sales and service business, Rotork of which are the same for 2011 as they Site Services RSS operates through were for 2010 although all parts relating each of the three divisions and is reported to corporate and social responsibility within their results.
Growing this business have now been grouped together under forms a key part of the Groups strategy one objective.
In addition, the initiatives and during the year we have opened service within each area have progressed.
The key centres in six new locations, from New objectives are: Zealand to Southern France, although many of the activities RSS performs are carried 1.
Sales growth The drive for organic out on customers sites.
Our continued growth requires subsidiaries to sell all the investment in RSS will ensure that we are products available to them and target all able to respond to customers requirements end-markets within their geographies.
promptly, and underlines our commitment 2010 New Middle East sales to supporting our products in the field from subsidiary, new Bangalore factory, a local base.
establishment of RFS China, growth of sales force worldwide.
RSS activities are divided into a number 2011 Move to larger premises in of revenue streams and, whilst we do not Houston, restructuring of US sales report the financial results of these, we are offices, new Chennai factory, expansion able to monitor other metrics to assess of China factory.
During the year we have increased 2.
Product development This the number of service engineers by 8% investment will continue in 2011 and will perhaps the best indication of overall result in enhancements to existing products activity levels.
These service engineers have and new products entering the market.
responded to 33% more service calls, fitted 18% more actuators to valves at customers 2010 Expansion of wireless plants and 17% more actuators to new capabilities, new gearbox ranges, start valves in our workshops.
We also have 4% up of Rotork Innovation Design and Top: IQT modulating actuator, water treatment more actuators on preventative maintenance Engineering Centre RIDEC, nuclear plant, UK.
contracts, where customers have outsourced qualification of products.
their maintenance requirements to Rotork.
Below: IQ with thrust 2011 Growth of RIDEC, expansion compensators, chemical of RPC ranges, investment in nuclear plant, Japan.
products and other projects that will Strategy Bottom: GP pneumatic benefit Rotork in 2012 and beyond.
actuators, offshore gas Rotorks vision is to be the recognised platform, South America.
global leader in electric, fluid power, 3.
Acquisitions These are a core manual valve actuation and associated part of our growth strategy and we products and services.
We focus on valve continue to seek suitable opportunities.
actuation and associated products and We require an acquisition to bring Rotork either a new product, a new services, principally wherever there is a need to control the movement of fluids geographical market or a new market or gases.
As world market leader, our sector.
Often the target will satisfy two aim is to provide high quality, technically or even three of these criteria.
The size advanced, innovative products and services of the acquisitions we are prepared to undertake is limited by opportunity, that support our customers activities around the world through our extensive rather than by our financial capacity and continually expanding network of but we retain a rigorous and disciplined offices and manufacturing plants.
We operate an asset-light business model 2011 Acquisition of Rotork Mexico.
which is highly cash generative.
Manufacturing and facilities Rotork to deliver quality margins, consistent year has invested in a number of factories on year growth in revenues, profit and and sales offices to develop world core dividends through organic growth class facilities from which to work.
investment programme will continue into 2011.
We develop and train our people to deliver our strategy and satisfy our customers 2010 New factory in Bangalore, requirements, while maintaining high investment in Bath factory.
Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 9 Mission Vision Objectives Financial Group Strategy Controls RSS Fluid Systems RSS Gears Sales Sales Sales Product development Product development Product development Manufacturing and Manufacturing and Manufacturing and Facilities Facilities Facilities Procurement Procurement Procurement Acquisitions Acquisitions Acquisitions Processes and Strategies common across all divisions Risk HR Systems CSR Management 2011 New factory in Chennai, 7.
IT Develop a global system for the People development Throughout the expansion of Shanghai factory, new sales and service offices.
Group we look to develop internal talent Houston sales and service facility, new and promote from within where possible.
2010 Commenced the design Encouraging people to build their career offices in Saudi Arabia.
within Rotork and helping them identify 5.
Material cost management Rotorks 2011 Finalise the design and their training needs allows each individual outsourced manufacturing model begin roll-out.
to reach their full potential.
Feedback on means that material costs are the most 8.
Nuclear Expand our nuclear-certified our success in this is obtained through significant component of direct costs.
product offering and ensure we are our Employee Satisfaction Survey.
We have always sought to control these positioned to take advantage of costs and wherever possible leverage increased activity in this market.
Processes and ethics We continue our global presence to source materials.
to embed a high-performance culture 2010 The acquisition of Hiller was 2010 Gross margin increased in the and the delivery of our Corporate Social central to achieving this objective.
year as rising commodity costs were Responsibility agenda.
Communication of Re-qualification of our nuclear electric mitigated through a combination of Rotorks Ethics and Values is now part of actuators was also achieved during sourcing initiatives and passing through the induction process for new employees the year.
and new agents and takes due account of 2011 We will continue to develop our the Bribery Act 2010 and the associated 2011 Continue to look for traditional products for use in nuclear draft guidelines.
These core ethical values opportunities to take costs out of applications as well as working with will ensure each individual employee acts our products through sourcing or Hiller to enhance their products.
at all times with integrity, honesty and product development.
Corporate and Social Responsibility fairness towards those whom they engage.
expanding our sourcing network through Our consideration of Corporate 2010 saw greater employee participation teams based in each of our factories.
and Social Responsibility CSR and in supporting local charities, as well as 6.
Development of Rotork Site objectives cover three distinct areas.
WaterAid, the nominated Group charity.
Services RSS RSS has grown over The Rotork approach to health and the last few years to become a revenue safety is to disseminate best practice generator as well as a key differentiator around the Group, training those for Rotork.
responsible and then verify adoption through auditing each subsidiary.
2010 Increased the number of service engineers by 8%, invested in 2010 The improvement in audit service workshops in six locations, three scores and reduction in the Accident of which are new facilities.
Frequency Rate KPI show we are making progress.
2011 Continue to expand the service team and establish new workshops 2011 Continue the initiatives which where there is customer demand.
10 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business Review combination: the 90NA ISN19 being the Research & Development largest combination that we produce.
We A major initiative during 2010 has been are also actively engaged in the design the setting up of the Rotork Innovation and qualification of electric and fluid and Design Engineering Centre RIDEC power actuators suitable for use within in Chennai, India.
This facility became  AP1000 and Areva operational in the last quarter and is EPR nuclear power stations.
intended to provide a multi-disciplinary technical resource to all business units Quality within the Group.
RIDEC will help with both the engineering integration of acquired Commitment to product excellence and businesses that may employ different exceeding customer expectations is a CAD systems and processes, and the fundamental part of Rotorks strategy.
A development of new and enhanced quality-driven focus is embedded in all our products across the Group.
It will continue business processes, from procurement and to recruit through the year, aiming to be at vendor approval, through to manufacture full strength by the end of 2011. and delivery, and extends into our site service activities.
All Rotork manufacturing sites The key differentiating features of an are required to be registered with a Quality electric actuator are motor control, Management Approval System to ISO 9000 robust communications links, and standards, and are required to adopt Rotork sensor technology, and our Bathsystems and working practices.
based engineers remain active in all of these areas.
At the end of the year we Our divisional structure and decentralised commenced production of a variant of procurement & manufacturing hubs allow our IQ series using a novel valve position us to disseminate best practice between sensor.
This represents the conclusion our businesses, and foster a culture of of several years research into position continuous improvement at all levels, measurement techniques and the search which is reviewed in quality audits.
KPIs for a cost-effective alternative to our allow us to target, monitor and improve our existing technology.
In addition, we have performance and instil an approach that continued the development of our wireless is focused on the customer.
Techniques network and are now ready to move from such as six sigma and lean manufacturing pilot installations to deployment within an principles are used extensively and allow Top: RC200 pneumatic operational environment.
There are still us to leverage world-class standards and actuators, biomass power challenges ahead but this represents an generation, Sweden.
place ourselves at the leading edge of exciting step forward.
Middle: IQT actuators at a UK power station.
As in previous years we have continued Our people Bottom: IQT actuator our efforts to gain leverage by applying on a sewage treatment As well as investing in our facilities and aeration control valve, our IQ technology to other products within UK.
product, we have continued to invest in the Group.
Products scheduled for release our employees.
We now have 2,100 staff by the RFS division during 2011 mark and their commitment makes possible the culmination of this activity.
Work has the delivery of our promises, obligations continued on the control valve actuator and ambitions.
We seek to develop their CVA to increase the range of options talent, through new and innovative ways of available and to extend the torque and thrust enhancing their capabilities and leadership capability of the family.
A larger size is now skills.
We also strive to ensure Rotork will planned for introduction in 2011.
Throughout continue to attract new talent and be seen 2010, the Process Controls division RPC as a good employer.
Good communication has been working on the development of with our employees is an essential part of a new family of linear, rotary and quarterthis and is particularly important in a global turn actuators that will complement the business.
This is one of the areas assessed CVA range and replace some of its older in our employee satisfaction survey, and products.
The first sizes of this new family are after initiatives to circulate a regular Chief due for release during 2011.
Executives newsletter, site briefings at many of our facilities and other magazines In tandem with the acquisition of Hiller, and communiqus the score has improved.
we have substantially increased our The total score on the employee satisfaction resources committed to the development survey has been maintained this year with of our nuclear product portfolio.
We have a record number of employees taking part.
completed re-qualification of the existing This is evidence that the survey is seen as nuclear electric actuator range to IEEE382 a valuable method for driving change within 1996, together with seismic qualification the Group.
of the 90NA ISN19 actuator gearbox Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11 An Equal Opportunities policy is applied apprenticeship programmes, our extended 2010 has been the first year Rotork has throughout the Group and in almost all graduate recruitment programme and other adopted a global charity, WaterAid, and cases, it is nationals from countries in which training initiatives across the Group.
it has been particularly pleasing to see the Company operates who manage those the great variety of ways in which our companies locally.
Financial support for employees around the world have found Corporate Social Responsibility training and learning programmes directly ways to raise money for this charity.
We At Rotork we take our responsibilities to related to employees working roles are also continue to monitor our impact on employees, customers, suppliers and all provided.
We have permanent full-time the environment, reviewing greenhouse our stakeholders seriously and our strategy training officers in many of our facilities who gas emissions, waste management and includes specific objectives in respect of co-ordinate product training for employees recycling and water use, working with this.
More information on the framework and customers.
Our commitment to employees and other interested parties and methodology for addressing our CSR staff development over the long-term to reduce this impact.
agenda is set out on pages 24 to 28. is evidenced by initiatives on four-year IQ actuators, strategic underground gas storage, Latvia.
