Year in Review Business Review.
Group The Group is a major player in the Netherlands, Belgium and the UK, with an expanding Organics business in Canada The Group is a major player in the Netherlands, Belgium Environmental and the UK, with an expanding Organics business in The Group closely monitors compliance with environmental Canada.
There are also some small operations in France permits at its locations.
All issues are reviewed at monthly close to the Belgian border which are managed from divisional meetings and, at least quarterly, at Group Board Belgium and included in the Belgian financial results.
Details of prosecutions during 2009 10 are given in The Netherlands remains the main source of the Groups the Corporate Responsibility section of this Report.
profits contributing before Group Central Services 67% with Belgium contributing 26% and the remaining 7% Operational split between the UK and Canada.
The number of waste activities undertaken by the Group is significant, with each site involved in differing ranges The Groups organisational structure reflects the of activities.
The performance indicators used to monitor national nature of the markets in which it operates, these activities are varied but in broad terms can be with divisions in the Netherlands, Belgium, the UK and categorised with examples as follows: Canada.
This reflects the essentially local nature of waste management and the need for close familiarity Collections volumes, prices, truck productivity with local regulation which varies substantially between Treatment volumes, disposal prices, recycling rates, countries.
Operations are managed through the Group Executive Committee comprising the Group Chief labour productivity Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Country Recyclates volumes and prices Managing Directors.
This allows for entrepreneurial Landfill volumes and prices management at a local level within a strong central Power megawatt hours and prices framework that ensures consistency, accountability and the sharing of ideas and technology where appropriate Plant utilisation productivity rates across the Group.
A major project is currently underway Energy from Waste green energy electricity and heat to drive standardisation into the way we measure certificates, plant productivity performance.
This will support further initiatives to Administration query volumes and time to resolve improve efficiency, for example utilisation of assets and lower unit costs, throughout the organisation.
Previously these operational KPis were only used at a local level: however as referred to above, a major project Key Performance Indicators KPIs is underway to collect and analyse these at a country and The Groups KPis can be divided into three categories: central level to enable more insights into the business to health and safety, environmental and operational.
drive improvements across the Group.
Part of the project is to enhance the management information systems to Health and Safety support the collection of the information.
Reporting of injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RiDDOR is UK law which requires companies in addition, there are financial KPis, common to all of to report specified serious accidents and incidents to the the businesses, namely revenue, trading profit, margins, Health and Safety Executive.
The Group requires all of its underlying free cash flow and return on investment.
operations, no matter which country they are based in, to report monthly in this common format.
Minor incidents are also reported.
RiDDOR KPis are referred to in the Corporate Responsibility section of this Report.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 22 YEAR iN REViEw
