smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 18 Business review continued Smiths Detection Smiths Detection is a world-leading designer and manufacturer of sensors that detect and identify explosives, weapons, chemical agents, biohazards, nuclear & radioactive material, narcotics and contraband.
Our technology helps customers in the global transportation, ports and borders, critical infrastructure, military and emergency responder markets.
We have the most comprehensive range of detection technologies in the world, including trace detection, millimetre-wave, infra-red, biological detection and diagnostics.
Employees Principal operating regions Our eight manufacturing centres are concentrated in North America, 2,400 Germany, France, Russia and the UK.
We sell to over 150 countries around the world either direct or through third-party distributors.
Contribution to 2010 Group sales 21 % Contribution to 2010 Group headline operating profit 17% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Stephen Phipson, CBE President Customers A significant majority of sales are influenced by more than 100 governments and their agencies, including homeland security authorities, customs authorities, emergency responders and the military.
These include the US Department of Defense, US Transportation Security Administration TSA, and the UK Ministry of Defence.
Sales performance 574 Competitors m Consolidated market data shows that, in the combined 509 501 transportation, critical infrastructure and ports & borders sectors, 438 Smiths Detection has a 32% market share, compared to its main 412 competitors of: L3 Security & Detection Systems 11%, Rapiscan Systems 14%, Morpho 15%, Nuctech 12% and AS&E 12%.
In the Military and Emergency responder markets, which are not included in this data, the main competitors are General Dynamics, Bruker, FLIR and SAIC.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sales by sector: 574m Suppliers 6 1 Transportation 39% We continue to redesign our supply chain model to maximise shared 2 Ports and borders 16% 5 3 Military 24% component parts and reduce costs across the division, while taking 4 Emergency responders 4% 4 into account the growing demand for local sourcing, particularly in 1 5 Critical infrastructure 10% North America.
Our supplier base is being adapted accordingly while 6 Non-security 7% ensuring that quality and delivery requirements are maintained.
3 2 18 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 19 mm-waves eqo improves privacy features Trials towards enhancing the privacy features of Smiths Detections revolutionary eqo body imager are at an advanced stage.
eqo uses millimetre-waves to detect metal and non-metallic threats concealed under clothing.
Fitting easily into a standard checkpoint layout, eqo works by bouncing harmless radio-style waves off passengers as they go through a portal and turn in front of a flat panel.
The waves echo back to sensors and reveal any anomalies via full-motion, real-time images.
These appear on a remote screen and are currently checked by operators who alert security over an audio link if a suspected threat is detected.
Software upgrades that enable eqo to alarm automatically will greatly reduce or eliminate the need for visual inspections.
The new software can be easily retro-fitted in the eqo systems already operating in international airports.
19 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 20 Business review continued Markets and trends Smiths Detection Smiths Detection products serve the transportation, ports and borders, continued military, emergency responder and critical infrastructure markets.
The business also adapts technology developed for these markets for carefully selected applications such as diagnostics.
Homeland security remains a priority in western countries, with up to 10% annual growth expected in the near term.
However, government spending and airport operator investment have been affected by the current global economic downturn, which has in turn caused some delays in projects and orders.
Recent growth rates have been lower in certain segments of the wider homeland security market.
The worldwide market for Smiths Detection products and services is worth an estimated 3.3bn.
The transportation sector, which includes airports, is the largest representing 38% of total sales.
Airport investment is recovering as passenger and air cargo traffic has started to grow again.
Over the long term the airport security market is expected to grow in response to: projected long-term growth in air traffic: new security threats: and customer pressure for faster throughput at checkpoints and an improved passenger experience.
The ports and borders market has been affected by the global slowdown in container traffic but provided strong growth recovery over the period.
In the longer term, this is expected to remain a growth sector, driven by government objectives of enhancing security screening and protecting tax revenues.
Customers require mobile and fixed units capable of detecting explosives, weapons, radioactive materials, narcotics and contraband.
Company-funded R&D 36 35 m 29 26 23 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 20 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 21 Organic sales growth target range 10- 12% Headline operating margin target range 17-20% The military market for UK and US technology is restricted by export controls.
These two governments comprise a major slice of the market which is characterised by tendering opportunities for large individual contracts that typically run for several years.
Smiths Detection continues to develop new business by increasing systems integration activity, offering improved functionality in protective shelters and introducing new technologies through government-funded partnerships.
Within the emergency responder sector, the US accounts for more than 50% of global demand.
This market is characterised by more localised purchasing decisions and stable market trends.
The critical infrastructure market is diversified, with varying growth rates in the different segments.
Smiths Detection focuses on three key areas: mass transit, sports and events, and government and military facilities.
Smiths Detection has a growing involvement in helping protect major events.
Smiths Detection is actively developing adjacent markets, with the main focus on clinical diagnostics.
Building on its expertise in the identification of biological agents, it has developed an instrument and sample preparation consumables and is developing a range of diagnostic tests.
A collaboration  grantedNovartis Diagnostics exclusive rights to market the instrument and associated technology, for infectious disease diagnostics.
The markets served by Smiths Detection are influenced by specific events and the perception of threat from terrorist activity or other Safe from chemical and biological attack security issues.
This perception itself has been and is likely to remain Smiths Detection is helping the US military meet its need for variable.
collective, integrated protection from chemical and bio-threats by developing advanced, mobile shelters that provide safe work space for combat, medical and support personnel.
The Chemical Biological Protective Shelter CBPS is a long-term government programme with a $333m contract ceiling.
To date, Smiths Detection has been awarded a $75m tranche of the programme and is now formally testing the 400-square-foot, vehicle-based shelters after a successful development phase.
Designed and built in the newly expanded Edgewood facility in Maryland, US, the CBPS should be in full production by the middle of 2011.
The militarys requirement for the CBPS, which eliminates the need for protective clothing in potentially contaminated areas, is estimated at around 1,200 systems.
21 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 22 Underlying sales in transportation grew 19% following a strong Business review performance in the second half.
The business secured several large contracts including one for advanced X-ray systems to upgrade continued Canadas existing airport checkpoints: an order from the US Transportation Security Administration TSA to supply portable liquid detection scanners for its Bottle Liquid Scanner programme: and a contract to supply advanced X-ray and trace detection systems in the newly opened Terminal 3 in New Delhis international airport.
Many airports have been reviewing their security arrangements following the attempted terror attack on an aircraft on 25 December.
This has led to increased orders for explosive trace equipment such as the Ionscan 500DT, including an $11m order from the TSA.
This portable technology is highly effective at detecting minute traces of explosives and can be easily deployed at airports.
Many governments and airports are also considering installing body imaging systems and we have deployed our millimetre-wave system, eqo, as part of a number of trials.
eqo uses electronic, real-time imaging in a standard checkpoint layout to detect metal and non-metallic threats concealed under clothing, without physical contact.
Wehave also benefitedfrom theinvestment in aircargo screening in the US to meet the target of 100% screening by 1 August 2010, a key requirement of the 9 11 Act.
We now offer 16 different X-ray machines on the TSAs approved technology list, which meet a wide variety of applications.
Underlying sales in the ports and borders market rose 66% following a weak performance last year.
The market experienced widespread contract delays during the previous financial year, as government Smiths Detection customers reviewed their expenditure plans against a backdrop of continued deteriorating economies and strained finances.
Several new contract wins supported strong sales growth during the period, including projects in Saudi Arabia, Russia and Japan.
For example, we won an order for 13 high-energy X-ray scanners in Saudi Arabia, to inspect inbound and outbound containers and trucks for contraband, weapons, explosives and narcotics.
The long-term outlook for ports and borders remains strong as governments improve their border security.
Our leading-edge technology positions us well to meet this demand.
Our military business grew underlying sales by 4%, largely through the success of the Lightweight Chemical Detector LCD in multiple Performance programmes including Canadian and German contracts and most  JCAD programmeforthe 2010 2009 Reported Underlying m m growth growth US Department of Defense.
The LCD, an advanced chemical point detector that helps safeguard troops by automatically detecting Sales 574 501 15% 13% chemical warfare agents and toxic industrial chemicals, has gained Headline operating profit 90 63 43% 40% worldwide acceptance as the leading detector in its class.
As expected, Headline operating margin 15.7% 12.6% the sales profile flattened in the second half due to the phasing of orders.
Statutory operating profit 89 63 Sales of sensor instruments to the emergency responder market also Return on capital employed 13.3% 9.5% continued to grow steadily, with new sales in Europe and Asia complementing the strong position in the US.
Reported sales grew 15%, or 73m, reflecting an underlying increase in sales of 63m 13% and a currency benefit of 10m.
The underlying Progress was made during the period in the development of molecular growth has come primarily from the ports and borders, transportation diagnostics detection systems for biological identification applications.
and military sectors, offset by a small decline in critical infrastructure Agreement was reached with Novartis to develop these systems for and other segments.
Smiths Detection has maintained its position as application to the clinical diagnostics markets in future years.
one of the worlds largest suppliers of government-regulated CBRNE Implementation of a new ERP system was completed on schedule at sensors and systems during the period.
This single system replaces 14 legacy The 310 basis point improvement in margins to 15.7% was driven by business software systems and provides a common information increased sales volumes and the associated enhancement in overhead platform to support data-driven decision-making.
We began a restructuring programme late last financial 25m and we have delivered annualised cost savings of 7m against our year to reduce the cost base and introduce more flexibility so we can target of 8m and working capital efficiencies of 20m compared with respond more quickly to variations in order flow.
This will be achieved a target of 11m.
through rationalising several manufacturing facilities.
We expensed restructuring costs of around 2.2m in the year, which has generated savings in the current year of around 1.6m with further savings expected in 2011.
Company-funded R&D % of sales 6.2% Customer-funded R&D % of sales 1.4% 22 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 23 Research and development Smiths Detection has maintained its leadership in the sector through a consistent commitment to product innovation developed by in-house R&D, government-funded research and via partnerships and licences.
Company-funded R&D increased 3% to 36m or 6.2% of sales 2009: 6.9% of sales.
This includes 11m of capitalised projects.
Smiths Detection actively seeks customer and government support for R&D which totalled 8m in the period 2009: 10m.
The main focus for R&D investment continues to be X-ray for a variety of applications, including baggage scanning at airports and cargo screening at ports and borders.
In December 2009, we entered an agreement with Analogic to develop the next generation of high-speed Explosive Detection Systems EDS for screening checked airport baggage.
The new system will incorporate the complementary expertise of each company in multi-energy X-ray technology and three-dimensional computed tomography CT.
The development cost will be absorbed within Smiths Detections ongoing R&D spend over the next two years.
The project has met all interim milestones and is progressing well.
We are also looking to enhance the privacy features of eqo by developing software upgrades that enable the system to alarm automatically on detecting any threat items beneath clothes, so greatly reducing the need for visual inspections.
These upgrades could be easily installed in the eqo systems already deployed.
eqo was one of the joint winners of the Another milestone in India Equipment and Technology Award, sponsored by the UKs Aerospace, Against stiff competition, Smiths Detection secured the prestige Defence and Security trade organisation.
contract to equip New Delhi international airports newly opened Terminal 3 with a wide range of advanced X-ray and trace detection Our global leadership in biological and chemical trace detection systems to screen passengers, hand luggage, checked baggage, supported the development of several new products in the period.
The terminal, one of the biggest in the world, will help included a new chemical sensor nose cone for the US Armys Raven treble the airports capacity to more than 60 million passengers a unmanned aerial vehicle, which can provide effective standoff detection year.
The contract marks another milestone in Smith Detections and identification to warn troops against a chemical attack.
We also expansion into Indias large and fast-growing security market.
launched a new version of our portable bio-threat detector, Other big customers include Indias major airports, the Indian SmartBioSensor, which can detect the presence of airborne biological Armed Forces, Presidential House, government, state and police microbes and bio-toxins.
Other new product launches included departments, hotel chains and diplomatic missions.
HazMatID 360 for rapid in-field chemical analysis of unknown solids, gels and liquids: LCD-Nexus, a rugged chemical warfare agent and toxic industrial chemical detector that can be remotely networked and controlled: and HGVI LINX, a pioneering software system to help emergency responders evaluate data from remote HGVI units Hand-held Gas & Vapor Identifier.
Outlook Smiths Detection is well placed to benefit from future growth opportunities, although government finances remain under pressure in many markets which may affect the timing and profile of orders.
We expect growth to come from the transportation and ports and borders markets, while the military market is likely to soften following a period of strong growth.
Longer term, we expect continued demand for leading-edge technology solutions forthreat detection and identification.
Smiths Detection will continue to invest in new product development to maintain market leadership, while restructuring the business to cut costs and support margin improvement.
23 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview
