smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 11 Group strategy Smiths is committed to creating long-term value for shareholders by building and sustaining strong businesses in growth sectors.
Bringing technology to life Strategy Smiths Group is a diversified technology company with a portfolio Our strategy is to deliver shareholder value by: of businesses delivering highly engineered products and services to delivering sales growth through investment in organic growth end markets with long-term underlying growth prospects.
These drivers such as new product development and expansion in high end markets include, among others, threat detection and security to growth markets: combat evolving terror threats: components and servicing for oil and gas production to meet global energy needs: the provision of medical enhancing margins through a relentless drive for operational devices for ageing populations: and components to support the improvement across all our businesses: continued demand for wireless communications.
The defensive managing the balance sheet and operations efficiently to generate characteristics of many of these markets and our significant strong cash-flows: exposure to aftermarket servicing and single-use consumables also provide resilience throughout the economic cycle.
implementing a rigorous approach to allocating capital across the businesses through active and disciplined portfolio management: We have quality brands our customers recognise as leaders in their markets.
A deep understanding of these markets, their products making acquisitions that add complementary technologies or and services, combined with strong customer relationships, enables products, extend our geographic reach, particularly in emerging Smiths to apply its leading-edge technologies and deliver engineered markets, or leverage our existing sales footprint: and solutions to specific client applications.
Our products and services improving returns on capital.
are also often critical to customer operations while our proprietary advanced technology and high service levels create barriers to entry.
As a multi-industry business, we manage the business to drive This supports high margins across our portfolio.
above average sales growth, improve margins, maximise cash-flows and enhance returns for our shareholders while promoting a culture The Group is managed by a lean corporate centre which sets the of responsibility across the business.
We measure our performance strategic direction and applies rigorous capital allocation to actively and the effectiveness of our strategy through several key manage the portfolio and drive returns.
It continuously seeks performance indicators: see overleaf.
opportunities to improve information flow, speed up decision-making and leverage the Groups scale.
It also ensures compliance as a UK listed company and promotes a culture of responsibility and accountability.
11 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview
