smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 36 Business review continued Smiths Interconnect Smiths Interconnect is a recognised leader in technically differentiated electronic components and sub-systems providing signal, power and microwave solutions.
We design and manufacture products that connect, protect and control critical systems for the global wireless telecommunications, aerospace, defence, space, medical, rail, test and industrial markets.
Our products are application-specific and incorporate innovative technologies to provide our customers with a competitive advantage.
Employees Principal operating regions Smiths Interconnect operates globally and has locations in the US, 4,000 Mexico, Costa Rica, Ireland, UK, France, Germany, Italy, Tunisia, India, China and Australia.
Contribution to 2010 Group sales 12% Contribution to 2010 Group headline operating profit 12% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Ralph Phillips President Customers Smiths Interconnect supplies to multiple levels of the supply chain and its blue chip customers include primes and service providers, OEMs, system suppliers and sub-system manufacturers.
Amongst our largest customers are Raytheon, Finmeccanica, BAE Systems, Boeing, AAI Textron, Northrop Grumman, General Dynamics, Lockheed Martin, Ericsson, Motorola, AT&T, Verizon, Sprint Nextel, Emerson, ZTE, Huawei, GE Medical, Varian, Qualcomm, NVIDIA and Alstom.
Sales performance 340 Competitors m 318 Smiths Interconnect operates in a fragmented market with many small and medium-sized competitors in various product 261 and technology areas.
Connector competitors include Amphenol, 230 Deutsch, Everett Charles, Radiall and Souriau.
Our microwave 211 components and sub-systems compete with, amongst others, Anaren, Spectrum Control, PowerWave, KMW, Dover, CommScope, EMS, Herley, Cobham, Teledyne and L3.
Huber & Suhner, Dehn and SL Industries offer competitive protection products.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sales by sector: 340m Suppliers 1 Military & aerospace 50% Smiths Interconnect maintains a strong supply base with 2 Telecom 27% 3 3 Medical, rail, automation and test 23% machined parts and electronic components together representing approximately half of the total spend.
No individual supplier accounts for more than 4% of total purchased value.
1 2 36 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 37 Semi-conductor under test Spring probe actual size IDI connects with niche market IDIs highly engineered, application-specific connectors use a proprietary spring probe contact technology and are sold into the semi-conductor test, circuit-board testing, military, medical and homeland security markets.
Within semiconductor test applications, the IDI test sockets are used to relay electrical test signals to and from the semiconductor device under test.
A new growth sector is being driven by the explosive global demand for smart phones and related consumer items, such as tablets and portable media players.
These devices rely on specific semiconductor sets where the chips are stacked one on another, a configuration that complicates testing as multiple contacts must be lined up on different planes.
However, IDI has developed package-on-package test solutions that meet the accuracy, alignment and repeatability challenges such that three of the top five producers of these chipsets have selected IDI.
37 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 38 Business review continued Markets and trends Smiths Interconnect The two largest markets for Smiths Interconnect are military, aerospace continued and space mil aero and wireless telecommunications.
Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ISR is a key priority for global defence spending, with improved battle space awareness, network-centric communications systems and force protection being seen as critical success factors in current and future conflicts, particularly irregular warfare.
Typical military applications for Smiths Interconnect technology include unmanned aerial systems UAS, next-generation ground vehicles, network-centric communications systems, radars and electronic warfare systems, surveillance systems and self-protection systems.
Our radio frequency and rugged connectors solutions are deployed in the most extreme environments, such as enabling sensor and communications systems and keeping military personnel protected in areas of conflict.
The historically cyclical commercial aerospace market is experiencing a growth phase driven by increased passenger and freight demand from a recovering global economy.
Smiths Interconnect provides electrical and microwave connectivity solutions for various aircraft, space vehicles and satellites.
The propensity for higher data rates and true mobility are the main drivers for growth in the field of commercial mobile telecommunications.
Smiths Interconnect supplies niche microwave components used in base stations and cell sites, as well as solutions to optimise network performance and integrity, and to safeguard the high value infrastructure from the effects of lightning strikes and power surges.
Smiths Interconnect provides connector solutions to semiconductor test, automated test equipment and circuit-board test applications.
The continued proliferation of electronic devices, high rate of technology refresh and increased functionality are key drivers for these markets.
Other applications for Smiths Interconnect products include medical equipment such as MRI scanners, automation equipment for the machine tool markets, and mass transit systems.
Total R&D investment 21 m 18 13 2008 2009 2010 38 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 39 Organic sales growth target range 6- 10% Headline operating margin target range 21 -23% Technology Smiths Interconnect comprises four technology-focused cohesive business units: Connectors provides application-specific, high-reliability electrical interconnect solutions from highly integrated assemblies to microminiature connectors and spring probe contacts.
Microwave Defence provides microwave and millimetre-wave components, sub-assemblies, antennas and systems solutions, primarily for defence and aerospace applications.
Microwave Telecoms provides solutions that test, filter and process high-frequency signals for wireless telecommunication networks.
Protection provides power and signal integrity components that protectcritical  systems from transienteffects caused by power surges and lightning strikes.
Enabling the next generation As mobile operators across the globe prepare for the imminent arrival of the 4G 4th generation platform of wireless communications, Smiths Interconnect is developing a range of specialised filtering and test products to optimise network performance in an increasingly congested frequency spectrum.
Operators will need to invest heavily in 4G networks to support the massive increase in mobile data traffic ranging from smart phones, tablets and laptops to social networking, video conferencing, and HDTV.
Smiths Interconnect has already been chosen by one major US carrier to provide both network enhancing filter products and RF and power surge protection devices for the imminent build out of its 4G network.
39 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 40 On an underlying basis, sales into military, aerospace and space Business review applications improved by 6% for the full year with a strong second half more than offsetting the 3% decline in the first half.
continued A key driver was the launch of the KuStream advanced broadband satellite antenna system, which enables airline passengers to access high data rate applications including internet, cell-phone services, live television and movies.
The KuStream antenna was selected by Southwest Airlines and production deliveries of the $30m order started in the latter part of the year.
The system is currently being considered by other airlines and we have also supplied initial development phase quantities for military applications.
The military market showed signs of becoming more challenging with some major programmes declining or being delayed.
However our areas of focus, particularly C4ISR command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance and force protection applications, remained relatively robust.
Our microwave and millimetre-wave businesses continued to support multiple secure military , sensor systems, and electronic warfareapplications.
 of a significant shipboard communications programme for which the first phase of a six-year production contract is expected shortly.
Demand increased for transient voltage and RF protection for military communications systems and strategic facilities as customers awareness of the effects of Electromagnetic Pulse EMP increased.
Smiths Interconnect has been selected to supply various protection Smiths Interconnect devices on several multi-year US military programmes, including a continued tactical communications system, a maritime surveillance programme, and a missile defence sensor system.
For our specialist connector business, the military market remained positive, with continued strong demand on the Eurofighter programme.
Although two other significant production programmes closed, we also had several new successes.
These included being selected to supply high power connectors for hybrid electric drive applications for future combat vehicles programmes and the choice of our new SnapTac series of miniature circular connectors for several future soldier programmes.
Underlying sales to the wireless telecommunications market fell 13% as Performance network operators limited capital investment in new infrastructure: and 2010 2009 Reported Underlying price pressures, particularly in emerging markets, were felt throughout m m growth growth the supply chain.
With new investment constrained, operators focused Sales 340 318 7% 3 % on optimising performance of existing network infrastructure, boosting Headline operating profit 62 56 12% 3% sales of our portable passive intermodulation test equipment in the US Headline operating margin 18.2% 17.4% as well as notching up breakthroughs in new regions including Europe, Statutory operating profit 53 51 India and China.
In the second half of the year, sales started improving Return on capital employed 17.3% 18.4% as operators began releasing funds for network enhancements and we saw an uptick in demand for both network optimisation filter products Reported sales for Smiths Interconnect grew 7%, or 22m, reflecting and power and RF protection devices.
gains from currency translation 5m and acquisitions 25m that The need for faster and higher bandwidth networks to support high data offset a 3% 8m underlying fall in sales.
The lower underlying figure rate applications, as seen in booming sales of smart phones, is driving was primarily due to slowing investment in wireless infrastructure and many network operators to prepare to invest in fourth generation 4G weaker sales of components to the rail, industrial and automation wireless networks.
Smiths Interconnect has already been selected by markets in Europe.
However these markets have shown some recent one major US carrier to provide both network-enhancing filter products signs of recovery.
Overall revenue was boosted by sales growth in and RF and power surge protection devices.
We also experienced military and aerospace markets particularly towards the end of the year, continued sales growth of filters, protection products, and millimetresuch that underlying sales rose 3% in the second half compared with a wave antennas in support of enhancing backhaul systems to meet the first half decline of 9%.
Headline operating profit margins improved by 80 basis points to 18.2%.
Reported headline operating profit increased 12%.
Excluding the 1m benefit from currency translation and 4m from acquisitions, underlying headline profit grew 3%.
The improved margins were driven by a combination of initiatives taken during the year as well as the benefits of restructuring actions from last year, including headcount reductions Company-funded R&D at multiple sites and short-time working in continental Europe.
Gross % of sales margins improved because of restructuring savings, cost savings from 4.8% the Group-wide procurement initiative, lower labour costs as more production was transferred to low-cost economies, and efficiency Customer-funded R&D % of sales improvements in targeted product lines.
Fixed costs continued to be 1.5% tightly controlled.
40 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 41 Sales to the medical, rail, automation and test markets declined 7% on an underlying basis although there were signs of stabilisation during the latter part of the year.
In medical, we have strengthened our position supplying surge protection and connector products to leading oncology, cardiac mapping, and MRI scanner providers.
We have also added new customers and broadened our product offering, most noticeably with our new contact used in implantable medical devices.
The rail market remained challenging throughout the year although there are signs of recovery with significant investment being planned for both infrastructure and rolling stock in the US, Europe and China.
Safety and communication systems are high priority applications, ideally suited to Smiths Interconnects product offerings of connectors, protection and microwave devices.
Market conditions in automation only stabilised towards the end of the year, whereas in test the market rebounded strongly in the second half.
Research and development Total R&D spend rose 17% to 21m or 6.3% of sales 2009: 18m or 5.8% of sales.
The customer-funded portion remained flat at 5m or 1.5% of sales 2009: 5m and acquisitions contributed 1m with the underlying company-funded portion increasing to 15m or 4.8% of sales 2009: 13m or 4.2% of sales.
During the year, the proportion of non-US based engineering resources increased significantly to 30%, providing scope for new product developmentin emergingmarkets.
Wearealso focusingR&Dresources KuStream builds on success more on projects that create long term value.
Specific investments Smiths Interconnects newly launched advanced antenna system included the launch of the KuStream antenna, passive intermodulation is key to an in-flight hub that is attracting interest from more airlines test solutions, new filtering products to support 4G networks, microwave hoping to provide passengers with the broadband access they enjoy subsystems for counter-IED systems, and next generation timing at home or in the office.
KuStream allows the Row44 In-flight systems for military tactical communication networks.
Broadband Connectivity System to offer high data rate applications Business developments such as internet, cell-phone services, live television and movies.
Smiths Interconnect completed two acquisitions which, combined with It is currently being installed in Southwest Airlines 500-strong fleet the full year effect of the Dowin acquisition in April 2009, contributed a as part of a contract announced in March 2010, valued in excess of total of 25m of sales and 4m of headline operating profit.
KuStream provides industry-leading performance in three vital areas: high data rates that enable applications such as internet In April 2010, we acquired Interconnect Devices, Inc. IDI, a leading and live TV: accuracy that ensures connectivity with satellites even designer and manufacturer of highly engineered, application-specific at shallow trajectories: and signal sensitivity allowing maintained connectors using a proprietary spring probe contact technology.
It connection at weak signal strengths.
The system is currently being focuses on mission-critical applications for semiconductor and circuitevaluated by major US and European airlines.
The US military is board testing, and connectors for military, medical, homeland security also interested in possible applications.
With a major plant in Suzhou, China, IDI complements and extends Smiths Interconnects connector product portfolio and its geographic reach.
The transaction allows Smiths Interconnect to leverage existing scale, particularly in Europe, and provides customers with a far wider range of solutions.
Integration of IDI is essentially complete and, buoyed by the resurgent circuit-board and semiconductor test markets, the business is performing ahead of expectations.
In October, we completed the acquisition of Channel Microwave, a small microwave components company that complements our Lorch and TRAK businesses.
Outlook The military sector is expected to become more challenging as budgetary pressures mount.
However we expect continued sales growth in military and aerospace due to the increasing demand for the KuStream antenna, our focus on high priority areas for defence spending, our existing positions on several major US military programmes, and new programme wins.
In wireless telecommunications, network operators are currently preparing for significant capital investment in higher speed next-generation technologies which will drive demand.
Semiconductor and circuit-board test applications are expected to continue to grow, spurred by the increasing demand for and sophistication of electronic devices such as smartphones, .
Weexpect further margin improvement from volume increases, restructuring benefits, and ongoing cost saving initiatives.
41 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview
