smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 42 Business review continued Flex-Tek Flex-Tek is a global provider of engineered components that heat and move fluids and gases for the aerospace, medical, industrial, construction and domestic appliance markets.
Our flexible hosing and rigid tubing provide fluid management for fuel and hydraulic applications on commercial and military aircraft, deliver fuel gas and conditioned air in residential and commercial buildings, and provide respiratory care for medical applications.
Flex-Tek heating elements and thermal systems improve the performance of medical and diagnostic equipment as well as that of domestic appliances such as clothes tumble dryers and HVAC equipment.
Employees Principal operating regions Flex-Tek operations are principally located in the US and Mexico 2,000 with Asian operations located in India, China, Malaysia, and the Philippines, and European facilities in France and Germany.
Contribution to 2010 Group sales 8% Contribution to 2010 Group headline operating profit 5% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Tedd Smith President Customers We serve mainly aerospace engine and airframe manufacturers, domestic appliance manufacturers and the US construction industry.
Large customers include Boeing, Airbus, Pratt & Whitney, GE Aerospace, Whirlpool, Electrolux, Trane, and Carrier.
Our notable distributors in the US construction market include Ferguson and Watsco.
Sales performance 240 Competitors m 222 Competitors for aerospace tubing include specialty segments 213 212 206 of Parker-Hannifin and Eaton businesses as well as vertically integrated capacity from key customers.
Heat Solutions competes with US suppliers such as Emerson, Watlow and Chromalox: however as our business grows in Asia we will face competition from Chinese manufacturers.
Flex-Tek construction products compete with US manufacturers Hitachi, Atco, Omega-Flex, Hart & Cooley and Goodman.
Flexible Solutions competes globally with small, privately owned businesses which manufacture specialty hoses.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sales by sector: 212m Suppliers 1 Smiths Tubular Systems Aerospace 24% Flex-Tek sources key raw materials from world-class companies 2 Flexible Solutions 23% 1 3 Heat Solutions 53% including electrical resistance wire from Sandvik, fibreglass insulation from Owens Corning, specialty plastic resins from DuPont and PolyOne, and stainless steel from Allegheny Ludlum.
Each of these supply chain partners is chosen based on its ability to provide 3 exceptional quality, service and value.
No individual supplier represents more than 10% of total Flex-Tek purchased value.
2 42 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 43 Metal mesh dissipates electricity Semi-conductive polymer Shielding homes from lightning Flex-Tek has launched a new, multi-layered version of its flexible gas piping to minimise the risk of household damage from lightning.
FlashShield is a greatly enhanced form of Corrugated Stainless Steel Tubing which uses a unique layer of metal mesh between jackets of semi-conductive polymer to help dissipate the heat and electricity generated by a lightning strike.
Independent testing has shown it provides 10 times the protection of standard flexible gas piping.
FlashShield also eliminates the need for additional bonding.
43 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 44 Business review continued Markets and trends Flex-Tek   continued and move fluids and gases for aerospace, consumer products and construction applications.
The diverse nature of these applications reduces Flex-Tek reliance on any specific technology, although Flex-Tek is highly leveraged to the US economy.
Technology Flex-Tek comprises three technology areas: Aerospace Tubular Systems Meeting the aircraft industrys need for rigid and flexible hydraulic and fuel hose, Flex-Teks aerospace tubing business delivers highperformance airframe fluid management systems around the globe.
Our customers utilise our specialised high-performance tubing in the civil and military aerospace industry for aircraft and engine applications.
Demand for these products is linked to the worldwide air transport market and military spending.
Heat Solutions Our specialised heating elements and thermal systems serve customers that manufacture tumble dryers, HVAC equipment, medical applications, and bespoke applications.
Revenue is largely dictated by household appliance demand in the US.
Flex-Tek construction related products: HVAC ducting and gas delivery tubing, are supplied to the North American construction industry via distributors.
Demand is a mix of the strength of the US construction industry and replacement sales.
Flexible Solutions Flexible Solutions hose assemblies can be found in a wide range of applications including: medical respiratory care, floorcare appliances, natural gas vehicles, leaf collection, and gasoline vapour recovery.
The business performance generally follows macroeconomic indicators such as US GDP and capital goods expenditures.
Headline operating profit margin 12 % 11 10 2008 2009 2010 44 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 45 Organic sales growth target range 0-7% Headline operating margin target range 11-16% Courtesy of Chesapeake Energy Successful conversions Flex-Tek has partnered with Clean Energy in the US to service the growing market for converting petrol vehicles to run on natural gas, a more environmentally friendly fuel.
The converted vehicles, increasingly popular because of their low emissions, need the kind of specialised fuel hose assembly that Flex-Tex has excelled in designing over decades of supplying the aerospace and automotive industries, including Formula One.
Clean Energy, the largest provider of natural gas for transportation in North America, recently won a contract to convert almost 2,000 AT&T service vans using Flex-Tek hoses.
Aside from supplying fleet conversions, Flex-Tek is also developing a unique delivery hose to be used at pumps as the network of fuelling stations spreads, particularly in metropolitan areas like Los Angeles.
45 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 46  increasedby120 basis points to 11.1% Business review as a result of the further progress in cutting costs and site rationalisation.
The underlying increase in operating profit of 2m was continued caused by the net effect of lower volumes 4m offset by cost saving benefits 6m driven by lower costs in materials, freight and overheads as well as some improvement in targeted pricing.
Sales of components to aerospace customers began to decline at the beginning of the period with a weakness primarily in the market for regional aircraft and business jets.
Although sales were down 16%, margins declined only slightly with the lower volumes being partially offset by production efficiency gains and cost cutting.
Heat Solutions underlying sales fell 3%, mainly due to declines in sales of gas  theUS construction marketduringthe first six months.
Sales grew in the second half, reflecting an improvement in underlying housing starts which began to show some growth from November 2009.
This improvement was supported by the Homebuyer Tax Credit Program, particularly as builders increased housing inventories to support demand ahead of the expiry of the tax credit at the end of April 2010.
The improving trend stabilised during the summer following withdrawal of the tax credit.
Sales of heating elements to appliance manufacturers were slightly down.
Against this challenging trading environment, Heat Solutions sales fell at a lower rate than the market, pointing to an increase in market share.
In addition, a sharper focus on low-cost manufacturing and combined product marketing programmes has helped preserve margins.
We have Flex-Tek recently launched a new product for the US construction market continued FlashShield which offers leading-edge lightning protection for corrugated stainless steel tubing used in residential gas piping.
Underlying sales of flexible hose assemblies from the Flexible Solutions division were flat.
This reflects weak demand in the US floorcare and general industrial markets in the first half which was offset by growth in the second half.
In addition, we saw success with new product introductions to the natural gas vehicle market in the US.
Flex-Tek has continued to rationalise its manufacturing portfolio and deliver efficiency improvements.
The programme is part of the wider Group restructuring and is expected to deliver annualised savings of Performance 9m.
In the year, we delivered a further 3m of savings which bring the cumulative annualised savings to 8m.
Flex-Tek remains on plan to 2010 2009 Reported Underlying m m growth growth achieve the rationalisation of two facilities in Massachusetts.
Sales 212 222 5 % 6 % Headline operating profit 24 22 7% 6% Headline operating margin 11.1% 9.9% Statutory operating profit 21 18 Return on capital employed 18.4% 16.7% Flex-Teks reported sales declined 5%, or 10m, because of a 12m 6% drop in underlying sales which was offset by 2m from currency translation.
This decline primarily reflects a downturn in sales of components to the OEM aerospace market.
Sales to the US residential construction and domestic appliance markets began the year with declining sales but began to show an improving trend during the second half.
As a result, overall sales grew in the second half by 3% on an underlying basis driven by improving sales from the Flexible Solution and Heat Solutions groups.
Sales 212m Headline operating profit 24m 46 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 47 Outlook Fibre optics open new market The outlook for the US residential construction, household appliance Flex-Teks long expertise in designing flexible steel tubing for and industrial markets is still uncertain, with a mixed flow of economic household gas supply has won it an unexpected new market.
and housing data from the US.
The aerospace sector is likely to Instead of keeping gas in, its newly developed harsh environment remain challenging.
Flex-Tek will benefit from the savings generated conduit is designed to keep damaging hydrogen gas out of fibre optic through site rationalisation and cost cutting programmes, which will cables.
Based on Flex-Teks corrugated, semi-rigid stainless steel help preserve margins.
Flex-Tek is strongly leveraged to a recovery tubing, the conduit hermetically seals the cable from naturally in US housing.
occurring hydrogen commonly found in regions rich in fossil fuels.
The gas can penetrate conventional plastic pipes and, through a chemical reaction, cause darkening of the fibres and loss of signal capacity.
Flex-Teks tubing minimises the risks of potentially costly repairs and communication interruptions, an acute problem for oil and gas companies which use fibre optics for distributed temperature sensing.
47 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview
