smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 24 Business review continued John Crane John Crane is a world-leading provider of products and services for the major process industries.
These include the oil and gas, power generation, chemical, pharmaceutical, pulp and paper, and mining sectors.
We enhance customer productivity by providing advanced technology industrial products and  services backed by an exceptional global network.
Employees Principal operating regions John Crane is a global business with a presence in more than 6,700 50 countries.
Contribution to 2010 Group sales 28% Contribution to 2010 Group headline operating profit 31 % Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Paul Cox President Customers John Crane serves oil & gas and power generation companies, refineries, pump and compressor manufacturers, chemical and other process industries.
Its main customers include Chevron, BP, China Petroleum, Suncor Petro Canada, ExxonMobil, Gazprom, PDVSA, Pemex, Saudi Aramco, Shell, Petrom, Sulzer, ITT Goulds, Flowserve, GE Nuovo Pignone, GE Energy and Power, Andritz Hydro, Siemens, Mitsubishi, Solar Turbines, Elliot, York, BASF, Bayer, and Dow.
Sales performance 790 Competitors 786 m For rotating technologies, John Cranes main competitors are, Flowserve and Eagle Burgmann Industries mechanical seals : 626 Kingsbury and Waukesha engineered bearings : Pall and Hydac 532 518 filtration systems : Rexnord and Emerson couplings.
For equipment in upstream energy John Cranes principal global competitors include Weatherford and Norris.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sales by sector: 786m Suppliers OEM: 37% 5 John Crane operates its supply chain globally, using global, regional 1 Original equipment manufacture 37% 4 Aftermarket: 63% and local partnerships to meet the required service levels.
Its main 2 Oil, gas & petrochemical 38% 1 suppliers are Morgan Group, Coors Tek, Schunk, ESK, Earle M. 3 Chemical & pharmaceutical 9% 3 Jorgensen, Femax, DuPont, Greene Tweed, Scot Industries and 4 Distributors 6% 5 General industry 10% Ashland Chemical.
2 24 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 25 Multiple impeller pump John Crane seal Enhanced oil recovery C02 Oil Seal face Helping capture carbon With so-called carbon capture increasingly used to cut greenhouse gas emissions, John Crane has developed advanced sealing technology that enables the complex process of pumping captured CO2 from conventional power stations to safe storage underground.
John Cranes engineers have more than 10 years experience in supercritical CO2 sealing to deal with a volatile compound that can change from gas to liquid or vice versa at the slightest variation of temperature or pressure.
Reliable sealing is achieved using proprietary non-contacting spiral grooves that are uniquely designed for moving CO2 or other unstable gases irrespective of density.
The same technology applies if the CO is being compressed or pumped 2 into a depleted oil field for enhanced recovery of oil or natural gas.
25 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 26 Business review continued Markets and trends John Crane John Crane sustains the effective operation of customers rotating continued equipment and other machinery with products that include mechanical seals, seal support systems, engineered bearings, power transmission couplings and specialist filtration systems.
John Crane also helps maintain and enhance oil and gas productivity through the servicing and provision of onshore down-hole artificial lift pumping hardware.
All this technology is supported by a global sales and service network that provides  services.
Using expertise developed from decades of experience, service teams in more than 50 countries maintain and support customer assets throughout their economic lifetime.
Approximately one-third of John Crane sales arise from the design and supply of products to original equipment manufacturers, while the remaining two-thirds of sales stem from the aftermarket servicing and support of existing installed equipment.
The business serves a wide range of process industries including oil and gas, chemical, power and general industrial applications.
Demand for John Crane products and services is influenced by a number of factors: the global demand for energy and an increased desire for national energy independence: more stringent regulatory requirements, e. g. to reduce emissions: the need to replace ageing infrastructure and deliver operational efficiencies: global demographics and long-term economic growth.
The long-term drivers, such as the global demand for energy, support growth in original equipment investment in the key end markets that should enable John Crane to deliver average organic sales growth of around 6-8% a year over the medium term.
Headline operating margin 20.7 % 18.1 15.3 14.1 12.8 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 26 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 27 Organic sales growth target range 6-8% Headline operating margin target range 17-22% The John Crane addressable market has doubled over the past three years as a result of a targeted acquisition strategy which has added complementary product lines such as engineered bearings, specialist filters and upstream energy services to the existing portfolio of mechanical seals, couplings and seal support systems.
These new product areas typically serve similar customers and offer scope for a strong aftermarket business.
John Crane is a market leader in its existing product areas with a share of around 28%, while there is significant opportunity to grow its share in the newly acquired product ranges.
These new products also allow John Crane to leverage its global network of sales, service and manufacturing centres more effectively.
We will continue to seek further opportunities for similar acquisitions which support this growth strategy.
John Cranes global network of over 155 service centres in more than 50 countries is a key asset which allows service closer to customers operations and provides a swift and effective aftermarket service to them.
These facilities provide a range of added-value services including repair, root cause analysis, alignment and condition monitoring, all designed to improve the performance of customers rotating equipment and to reduce downtime.
The geographic footprint continued to expand through opening additional manufacturing, sales and service centres in key markets particularly in growth markets such as the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Bearings on energy saving John Crane is constantly finessing its range of advanced bearings to meet the evolving needs of power plant operators who face increasingly stringent performance and environmental standards.
Its patented bearing technology is now used in upgraded gas and steam turbines to help boost performance while simultaneously cutting energy consumption.
Sophisticated geometric profiling of internal surfaces combines with state-of-the-art lubrication systems to minimise secondary energy losses and cut overall oil consumption, even at the highest temperatures.
The optimised lubrication helps reduce the bearings energy usage by as much as 25%.
Steam turbines in particular can also gain up to 25% more load capacity and wider operational safety margins through lower bearing temperatures.
27 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 28 These changes are delivering improved customer service, quicker Business review delivery, and lower costs.
In the period, we spent 4m and delivered savings of 12m so that annualised savings to date now total 19m.
continued Overall, the project is on track to deliver annual savings of 25m.
Overall aftermarket sales grew by 1% on an underlying basis.
Aftermarket sales of rotating equipment increased 2% driven by the oil, gas and petrochemical, general industry and distribution sectors as spending started to recover and new distributors were added.
The chemical and pharmaceutical sectors continued to decline for rotating equipment.
Sales for John Crane Production Solutions, our energy services business, are all in the aftermarket and declined 10% due to lower activity levels in Romania and in US onshore gas and oil production.
Going forward, John Crane Production Solutions won a major contract to upgrade and maintain Romanias oil wells by providing pump repair services and equipment for Petroms 8000-plus wells.
The contract for pump repair services began on 1 December 2009.
This new contract is expected to generate annual revenues of about 14m.
First-fit original equipment sales declined by some 15% on an underlying basis as the recession prompted customers to curtail capital expenditure.
Our recent acquisitions to broaden our product offering in the areas of engineered bearings and specialist filtration have been integrated into the existing portfolio.
These businesses have a greater exposure to the first-fit OEMs and are more exposed to the capital spending cycle until we fully realise aftermarket channels for these products.
Progress was John Crane made within the year with several new accounts achieved for bearings continued and filtration.
In line with our original plans, we expect to progressively build the aftermarket sales for these products over time by leveraging our existing global network of sales and service centres and our unrivalled expertise in aftermarket servicing.
Implementation of a new ERP system across Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia completed on schedule in July 2010 and within the 24m budget.
The projectis expectedto generate annual cost savings of 10m.
To date, the project has realised 5m of savings.
Critical to continued expansion of our market-leading sales and service network, significant infrastructure enhancements were completed Performance during this past year.
The John Crane Asia Pacific headquarters were 2010 2009 Reported Underlying relocated to a new custom-built facility providing state-of-the-art m m growth growth manufacturing, service and training capabilities.
This centre now Sales 786 790 1 % 5 % provides advanced design and development of seal support systems as Headline operating profit 163 143 14% 9% well as regional technical support for all John Crane product lines Headline operating margin 20.7% 18.1% includingbearings andfiltration.
Servicenetwork enhancementsinclude Statutory operating profit 124 106 the opening of a new larger couplings facility in Houston, expansion of Return on capital employed 22.2% 20.4% the largest North American service centre, also in Houston, and a new service centre in Auckland, New Zealand.
In addition, a new service John Crane margins improved to an all-time high of 20.7% with a 260 centre opened in Kwidzyn, Poland, strategically located near six major basis point increase against a 5% 44m decline in underlying sales.
pulp and paper plants, establishing exceptional customer service These margins demonstrate the cost saving benefits from the global response capability and a business growth opportunity.
restructuring programme, the implementation of an ERP system and procurement savings.
The reduced underlying sales reflect lower orders for first-fit original equipment which offset a slight increase in aftermarket sales, driven primarily by a recovery in the oil, gas and petrochemical sectors.
First half underlying sales declined by 15% but an improving order book, particularly in the aftermarket for rotating equipment seals, bearings, and filtration, helped second half sales grow by 4% on the same period in the prior year.
Reported sales fell 1% after a 19m benefit from currency translation and a 21m contribution from recent acquisitions.
Reported headline operating profit grew by 14% driven primarily by a 9%, 13m, increase in underlying profit, as well as a 4m gain from currency translation and 3m from acquisitions.
The underlying % sales in first-fit OEM improvement in profitability stems from the benefits delivered from our .
 37% 2008 to create one global John Crane division is progressing on schedule.
As a result, there is tighter global co-ordination of corporate % sales in aftermarket service functions while sales and service operations have been kept close to 63% customers in regional organisations.
We have also gained from moving manufacturing to lower-cost countries in Eastern Europe, Asia and Mexico.
28 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 29 Research and development Partnership approach pays off John Cranes commitment to technical leadership through investment The discovery of vast, oil fields off the Brazilian coast opens in product research and development is the foundation to maintaining potentially lucrative opportunities for John Crane which already our industry-leading position.
This past year John Crane spent 10m on enjoys long-established commercial ties with Petrobras, Brazils the development of new wet and dry gas seals, advancement of coupling state-led energy company.
Already the niche market leader in Brazil, and bearing technologies, control monitoring systems and expansion John Crane has installed and maintained dry gas seals for Petrobras of test capabilities.
Addressing industry demands associated with gas offshore platforms since 2003 and has just signed a $5m exclusive transmission trends including CO2 capture and re-injection, gas seal repair services contract.
The three-year deal is the result of a close development programmes are ongoing including the launch of a new partnership approach between the two companies which should high pressure gas seal design, new test rigs capable of extreme highlead to further business as the new fields come online.
pressures and advanced seal face materials development.
Wet seal product developments include the introduction of a new highperformance split seal line approved for use on naval ships, unique high temperature non-contacting pump gas seal technology, a high  and advancement of diamond coatings for seal faces.
In addition, significant investment has been directed to the improvement of proprietary analysis tools that further enable our product development programmes and support customer service initiatives.
Outlook John Cranes order rate has continued to improve.
This should support sales growth in the coming year, subject to a sustained expansion in market economies and further customer investment in capital projects.
Margins will benefit from the remainder of the cost saving initiatives in the coming year, although this will be offset by strategic investment in growth opportunities such as the expansion of our sales and service network and increasing our presence in growth markets.
John Crane will capitalise on its market leadership in mechanical seals and continue to leverage its global sales and service network to promote the newly acquired products such as hydrodynamic bearings and specialist filtration systems whilst continuing to build the John Crane Production Solutions business.
29 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview
