smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 30 Business review continued Smiths Medical Smiths Medical is a leading supplier of specialist medical devices and equipment for global markets.
In medication delivery, our devices help treat cancer patients and provide relief to those in pain.
Our vital care products reduce hospital-acquired infections, manage patients airways before, during, and after surgery, maintain body temperature and assist reproduction through IVF therapy.
Our safety products keep health workers safe by helping prevent needlestick injuries and reducing cross-infections.
Employees Principal operating regions Manufacturing is concentrated in Mexico, the US and UK, Italy, 8,400 Germany and China.
We sell to over 120 markets worldwide, the US being our largest single market with around 50% of sales.
Contribution to 2010 Group sales 31 % Contribution to 2010 Group headline operating profit 35% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Srini Seshadri President Customers We estimate that around three-quarters of our end customers are hospitals, with the remainder comprising the alternate care market such as home care, clinics and other surgery centres.
We have a direct sales presence in 20 countries, with distribution arrangements in many others.
Sales performance 858 Competitors 834 m The competitive landscape for Smiths Medical is complex as we 737 703 compete with different businesses across the wide range of product 691 areas.
Our competitors include Covidien, Teleflex, B Braun, Becton Dickinson, Hospira and CareFusion, among many others.
In many cases, we compete with only a small portion of their medical businesses so comparison between peers is not straightforward.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sales by sector: 858m Suppliers 1 Medication delivery 27% Our strategy is to engage suppliers in product innovation, value 2 Vital care 41% 1 3 Safety devices 32% engineering and a commitment to quality.
Our goal is to reduce 3 product and supply chain costs, improve delivery performance and reduce the cost of out-of-specification or poor-quality supplies.
The majority of our direct spending is on injection moulding, packaging materials and electronics.
Among indirect purchases, freight, services, travel, temporary labour and capital equipment represent the majority.
2 30 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 31 Nursing station PharmGuard Server Software Wireless connectivity Delivering safer treatment Smiths Medical is helping hospitals and clinicians reduce potentially dangerous medical errors through its industry-leading medication delivery systems and advanced software programmes which enhance both patient safety and healthcare practices.
A combination of its Medfusion syringe pump and PharmGuard Medication Safety Software is now widely used in leading childrens hospitals for smart infusion systems particularly in intensive care.
The advanced features include extensive drug libraries that facilitate programming by drug with built-in dosage limits, precise infusion accuracy and advanced syringe recognition.
Our next generation infusion systems will deliver operational efficiencies by enabling pumps to be remotely and wirelessly updated with the latest drug libraries.
Moreover, quality improvements will be achieved through the collection of pump infusion data, analysis of programming errors and generation of key compliance metrics.
31 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 32 Business review continued Markets and trends Smiths Medical Healthcare spending continues to increase worldwide, driven by continued demographics ageing populations and increasing prosperity particularly in Asia.
The overall world market for devices and equipment of the type supplied by Smiths Medical is estimated to be worth 4.0bn, with opportunities in target adjacent markets that would more than double the size of the addressable market.
Smiths Medical has global reach in the design, production and distribution of medical device products, with sales and marketing activities in over 120 countries.
Its product ranges serve three main markets medication delivery, vital care and safety.
Looking at trends across the business, Smiths Medical is well placed in lower-risk, short residency, interventional devices, where there is continued demand.
Its broad portfolio includes iconic brands in hardware and consumable products: in hospitals and alternate care settings: and in software and services.
Regarding specific growth opportunities, recent legislation in the European Union directs EU member states to adopt country-level safety legislation.
This represents a breakthrough in that region.
When similar laws were passed in the US several years ago, Smiths Medical saw double-digit growth in sales of safety products.
In addition, the division is making significant progress in the development of medication delivery systems that link to healthcare providers networks, a global trend.
Finally, the move in vital care from standalone products to integrated solutions suits Smiths Medicals broad and deep offerings.
Medication delivery Smiths Medical designs and manufactures drug delivery systems that relieve acute and chronic pain CADD, treat the most at risk critical care patients in high care units around the world Medfusion and Graseby, ,  disease to receive their treatment at home CADD.
The global market for medication delivery products is estimated to be worth 1.2bn and growing at around 3-5% a year.
This growth is due to the increase in treatment of chronic conditions, the integration of medication delivery devices with hospital IT systems, and the move to treating patients outside hospitals.
We are a leader in ambulatory infusion, with a strong position in the syringe pump market.
Headline operating margin 21.5 % 19.7 18.4 18.2 18.1 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 32 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 33 Organic sales growth target range 3-5% Headline operating margin target range 20-24% Vital care Smiths Medicals products manage patient airways before, during and after surgery Portex, aid patients with breathing difficulties Portex, Pneupac, help to maintain body temperature Level 1, monitor vital signs such as blood pressure and heart rate BCI, Medex and assist reproduction through IVF therapy Wallace.
The market for vital care products grows at around 2-4% annually, partly due to a steady increase in the incidence of chronic respiratory diseases and obesity.
Demand is increasing for single use devices such as Portex airway management products.
The market is expected to continue growing as the number of operations and intensive care beds both increase.
Demand continues to grow at a rapid rate globally for IVF as well.
The vital care market is currently worth about 1.7bn.
Safety Smiths Medical makes effective safety devices that prevent needlestick injuries and reduce cross-infections.
These cover a range of functions including drawing blood samples Jelco, administering injections and vaccinations Jelco, and delivering intravenous drugs Deltec.
The global market for safety products is estimated to be worth 1.2bn and growing at 3-5% annually.
Smiths Medical is one of the worlds leading suppliers of safety needles and catheters: as such, it is well-positioned to capitalise on the recently agreed European Union directive calling for the increased use of safety products to protect healthcare workers.
Uniperc is best in category Smiths Medicals groundbreaking Portex UniPerc tracheostomy kit has won a prestigious MDEA Gold Award, the highest designation given by the MDEA Medical Design Excellence Awards in the US.
It was selected best in category over several other high-tech medical solutions.
UniPerc is the first dedicated percutaneous tracheostomy option with tubes specifically designed for patients with larger necks.
Its products and components have been designed to make percutaneous insertions into large necks quicker, safer and more effective than standard tubes.
33 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 34 At the same time, there has been some recovery in the hardware Business review market and stabilisation of disposable sales.
This follows a tough period last year when the economic downturn squeezed hospital continued budgets and prompted significant distributor destocking.
We have also seen a rise in accompanying disposable sales in line with hardware sales improvements.
In medication delivery, excluding diabetes, underlying revenue grew 5% from increased sales of our next-generation CADD-Solis ambulatory smart pumps as they are rolled out to new markets and gain ground in existing markets.
Deferrals of purchases of our infusion systems by some large customers have continued, although we expect those sales to recover.
Sales of CADD-Solis pumps grew in North America and are expanding in other English-speaking markets.
The European multilanguage launch of CADD-Solis pumps began in February, and early results show strong market acceptance.
In addition, we recently announced a commercial collaboration with Hospira to co-promote infusion pump systems.
As part of this agreement, the two companies have begun development of software for managing infusion safety medication.
This is designed to enhance patient safety and simplify how clinicians work.
This agreement will allow us to extend the use of our Medfusion syringepumps with PharmGuardMedication SafetySoftware to more hospitals and care areas in the US and Canada.
Vital care underlying sales grew 2% mainly through a continued strong performance by our temperature management franchise, which represents a positive turnaround.
We benefited from growth in our Smiths Medical respiratory products, particularly early in the year, partly due to continued preparations made by various organisations for potential H1N1 flu outbreaks.
Our tracheostomy business also delivered strong growth in the period.
The UniPerc tracheostomy kit for people with large necks boosted this franchise after it won a prestigious Medical Design Excellence Award, attracting increased interest in the product.
Our assisted reproduction products are also growing strongly as we benefit from our leading presence in a niche market.
Underlying sales of safety devices rose 1%, driven by several large orders in support of H1N1 preparation early in the year, and a significant OEM partnership.
Interest in safety products remains high in developed markets, and is growing in developing markets like India.
In May 2010, Performance the European Commission adopted a Directive, with the aim of 2010 2009 Reported Underlying achieving the safest possible working environment for healthcare m m growth growth workers through prevention from sharps injuries.
Countries across Sales 858 834 3% 0% the continent are beginning to seek products that adhere to these Sales excluding diabetes 844 801 6% 2% guidelines, and Smiths Medical is in a strong position to capitalise on Headline operating profit 184 164 12% 10% this trend.
Headline operating margin 21.5% 19.7% We continued to manage our product portfolio aggressively to boost Statutory operating profit 172 148 profitability and reduce complexity.
By the end of October 2009, we had Return on capital employed 15.1% 12.8% simplified our business by successfully eliminating some 3,000 SKUs: this has provided opportunities to convert customers to alternative Underlying sales were flat due to our exit from diabetes which reduced products.
In the second phase of our portfolio review, we are looking at revenue by 20m: excluding diabetes, underlying sales grew 2%.
At our product line holistically.
We will delete additional low-performing reported exchange rates, Smiths Medical sales grew 3% 24m, which SKUs, as appropriate, while pursuing additional up-selling and crossreflects gains from currency translation 23m and acquisitions 2m, selling opportunities, and price increases.
A more sophisticated global while headline operating profit rose 12% 20m.
Headline operating key account management system is gaining traction and helping margins increased by 180 basis points to 21.5%, reflecting a strong improve customer profitability.
At the same time, our previously regional underlying growth in profit of 17m, a currency benefit of 2m, and profit organisation was restructured to create global management teams for from acquisitions of 1m.
Margins benefitedfrom thevarious cost saving sales and marketing and product management respectively.
We have initiatives to address overheads and material costs as well as and other continued to optimise our manufacturing footprint to deliver an efficient manufacturing efficiency measures.
The portfolio profitability review, supply chain.
begun last year, delivered price improvements and better margins.
The momentum established in the first half of the fiscal year continued, with underlying hardware sales up 2%, excluding diabetes, while sales of our disposable products grew 3%.
These results demonstrate the significant progress made through the Company-funded R&D performance improvement programme introduced two years ago to % of sales address the supply chain and operational challenges facing the 3.5% business.
Among many operational metrics, we have seen a marked improvement in on-time delivery and customer service, as well as Sales from products launched in last three years reduced customer backorders.
16% 34 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 35 During the year, we closed a manufacturing facility at Waukesha, Promotion partnership Wisconsin, and transferred the BCI and SurgiVet production lines to our Smiths Medical has signed a two-part agreement with Hospira St Paul, Minnesota, facility.
We also rationalised two distribution centres to co-promote their infusion pump ranges in the US and Canada in Otay Mesa, California, and Cherwell, UK merging them into and develop an enterprise management software application for existing distribution centres.
The restructuring of our North American the Medfusion pump that will enhance patient safety and simplify operations has produced 3m of savings to date.
The enterprise application will continue to facilitate the monitoring of hospital devices and improve medication Implementation of our global ERP business systems was completed at management and safety that will complement the next generation the end of February.
The new systems are already providing far greater of Smiths Medical smart infusion pumps.
With complementary transparency of key data across the business.
This is enabling faster, product lines, the co-promotion allows Smiths Medical to expand data-driven decision-making that will improve our quality and customer the reach of its industry-leading syringe pumps.
satisfaction to support revenue and margin growth.
Research and development We continued to increase the sales from products launched in the last three years, up 16% on last year.
This metric demonstrates that we are directing our R&D investment more effectively and executing more of our product launches on time and within budget.
During the year, we extended the reach of a number of products into new markets, including CADD-Solis and Medfusion pumps, the UniPerc tracheostomy range, LockIt Plus catheter securement devices and SuctionPro 72 closed suction systems.
We also completed a global launch of our new, full range of convective warming blankets, which have been well received in all of our key markets.
Outlook Smiths Medicals strategic imperatives for fiscal year 2011 are growth, globalisation and new products.
We will continue to drive positive sales momentum, although growth will be constrained by the exit from diabetes.
Thepotential impactof governmentcuts to healthcarebudgets may affect the rate of growth.
We will continue to push through efficiencies to support planned increases in investment in R&D and sales and marketing.
We expect sustained and significant sales expansion in China, with a rapid pick-up in growth in India, as our regional direct sales strategy gains momentum.
Margins will benefit from the restructuring and cost reduction initiatives and from our ability to make data-driven decisions regarding portfolio and customer profitability.
35 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview
