How will we deliver our strategy?
We need the following resources, skills and capabilities in place to achieve our long-term goals: 24 Delivering our strategy AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information An R&D function with world-class productivity 1 focused on delivering a range of innovative, differentiated and commercially attractive medicines through collaboration, and underpinned by patent and intellectual property rights.
See page 26 A sales and marketing activity undertaken in the right way 2 and focused on our customers and their patients needs.
See page 32 A reliable supply and manufacturing operation 3 that ensures our customers and patients receive their medicines when they want and need them.
See page 34 A diverse and talented workforce 4 with the right skills, in the right place at the right time.
See page 36 A commitment to responsible development of our business 5 which delivers value for our shareholders and for our other stakeholders.
See page 40 Business review The Glossary and the Market denitions table from page 217 are intended to provide a This section includes information that fullls the requirements of a business review under useful guide to terms and AstraZenecas denitions of markets, as well as to acronyms the Companies Act 2006.
The Our Strategy and Performance, Corporate Governance, and abbreviations, used in this section.
Development Pipeline, Shareholder Information and Corporate Information sections from In this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, unless the context otherwise requires, pages 10, 94, 206, 211 and 216, respectively, are incorporated into this section.
AstraZeneca, the Group, we, us and our refer to AstraZeneca PLC and its consolidated Details of the more significant risks to AstraZeneca are set out in the Principal risks and entities and any reference to this Annual Report is a reference to this Annual Report and uncertainties section from page 96.
Many of our products are subject to litigation.
Detailed information about material legal Except as otherwise stated, references to days and or months in this Annual Report are proceedings can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178. references to days and or months in 2010.
References to prevalence of disease have been derived from a variety of sources and are Figures in parentheses in tables and in the Financial Statements are used to represent not intended to be indicative of the current market or any potential market for AstraZenecas negativenumbers.
pharmaceutical products since, among other things, there may be no correlation between the prevalence of a disease and the number of individuals who are treated for such a disease.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy 25
