Business review Current environment Trading As the global economy emerged from recession, industrial Total Group sales increased by 14% in 2010 to production rebounded briskly in the early months of 2010 589.7 million 2009: 518.7 million.
Organic sales grew in most geographic regions and average industrial production by 9% with widespread growth across all geographic regions grew across the world at nearly a double-digit pace in 2010, as the world emerged from recession.
Favourable currency although the pace of growth expectedly slowed in the latter movements and acquisitions contributed equally to the months of the year.
Market conditions for our business remaining 5% sales increase.
reflect general global economic activity and the movements For the Spirax Sarco steam business, sales increased by in industrial production, although we continue to see 12% comprising organic sales growth of 8% with a 1% considerable variability from market to market.
We anticipate contribution from the acquisition of the remaining shareholding that rates of growth in industrial production will return to in our Mexican Company and the balance from favourable more normal levels in 2011, although we note a degree exchange.
Sales increased in all geographic regions and of uncertainty due to persistent financial issues, including nearly all product segments, although growth overall in government deficits, potentially impacting the economies Europe was subdued.
Sales of our core steam specialties of North America and Europe.
products increased from higher maintenance spending.
Energy prices have increased substantially in the recent Watson-Marlow pumps sales increased 23% for the year, period with crude oil prices now running at historically high comprising organic sales growth of 15% and benefiting levels.
We remain encouraged that our energy-saving from a 7% full year contribution from the acquisition of initiatives and the companion emission reductions that are MasoSine in late August 2009: favourable exchange rates achieved through improved system efficiency, continue to added less than 1%.
be of value to our customers.
The Groups operating profit increased to a record 119.1 million 2009: 89.9 million, giving an increase of 32% in sterling and 26% at constant currency.
The increase in operating profit arose from operational gearing on higher sales volumes, increased manufacturing efficiencies, cost reduction actions taken in 2009, pricing, acquisitions and favourable exchange rates.
Material prices, although lower in the first half year, started to rise again in the second half, but material prices were favourable for the full year.
All this resulted in the operating profit margin improving to a record 20.2%, up from 17.3% in 2009.
Delivering value everyday Our specialised state-of-the-art training facility is leading the way Spirax Sarco China run courses at their state-ofPractical demonstrations are held in the demo The aim is to help the delegates achieve maximum the-art training facility in Shanghai.
Courses are room giving the delegates a chance to gain a efficiency and safety in their plant operations by led by product managers and specialist engineers better understanding of products and processes understanding proper steam system design.
Each and are attended by internal personnel as well as by actually seeing them in operation.
delegate is supplied with handouts, including customers and partners.
technical publications, to support each course, and is issued with a certificate on completion of the course.
8 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Delivering value through superior engineering expertise Working directly with our customers in strong, long-term relationships, our sales engineers apply our deep applications and systems knowledge, breadth of products and services, experience and global presence to enable us to offer the most extensive range of engineered solutions Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Financial statements Governance CS CSR R Financial review Business review Overview
