12 12 12 13 13 13 b b bu u us s siiin n nE E Ess ss ss ss ss ss ss R R R RE E E Evi vi viEW EW EW B Bu us si in fines ess sr re ev vi ie ew wAn Ann nu uA Al lr re e e ep p p po o o ort rt rt rtA A And ndAc Acc co ou un nt ts s2 201 010 0 1 intERnAtiOnAl ExpAnsiOn SSL now has operations in more than 30 countries, selling our products worldwide.
In 2009 10, 85% of our sales were outside the UK, which helps balance our performance, as stronger economies can balance those suffering downturns.
This year, for example, we saw real growth in Asia, and the performance of our Russian and Ukraine businesses continue to exceed our expectations.
sAlEs OutsidE uK 85 % Me & Vlad in Moscow.
Glad we bought some Contex!
eNet tING NeW m ketS brand, inspiring men and women of all ages to love the sex they durex have through expansion into new areas of sexual experience, driving better consumer engagement with the brand and Adjusted 31Mar10 31 Mar 09 sales pioneering sexual openness, honesty and responsibility.
sAlEs m m growth % highlights Branded condoms incl Contex 294.6 238.7 23.4 Three new condoms added to our Durex Feeling range Durex Play 53.5 45.5 17.6 Durex Fetherlite Ultra, Durex RealFeel and Durex Deluxe.
These have been developed to enable couples to enjoy heightened durex 348.1 284.2 22.5 sensitivity during sex Sales of our Durex Play r r ra a ang ng nge e e, , in in inc c clu lu lud d ding ing ing personal lubricants and Including Russia Ukraine and at constant exchange rates v v vi i ibr br bra a at t to o ors rs rs, , i i in n nc c cre re rea a as s se e ed d d 1 1 17.
7.6 6 6 p p per er er c c ce e ent nt nt strAtegy L L Lau au aun n nc c ch h h of of of w w ww w ww w w... m m my y yor or ora a a... c c com om om, , a a a g g gl l lo o ob b bal al al online community The Durex team has embraced an ambitious target of doubling which pr pr pro o ov v vi i ides des des a a a pl pl pla a at t tf f fo o orm rm rm fo fo for r r peo peo peop p pl l le e e from all over the world to the Durex business by 2013 and is working to ensure the brand share t t th h he e eir ir ir s s sex ex exu u ua a al l l experiences and celebrate healthy sex lives fundamentals are sufficiently robust to support this target.
This activity included an intensive consumer research programme outlooK to define the brand positioning and to explore categories where With the strategy in place, Durex looks set for continued success.
there might be expansion potential for Durex.
New products for 2010 include the launch of Sweet Strawberry After this consumer research, we identified a global lubricant and the global rollout of Durex Love-Box tins.
brand positioning, strategy and vision for Durex which will act as a springboard for growth of the brand into new categories.
We share a common vision of becoming the leading global sex 14 15 businEss REviEW CONTINUED  deo-Activfresh All day fresh feet confidence.
footcAre highlights New range of innovative footcare solutions launched to Adjusted address the issue of hard skin, including a targeted action 31Mar10 31 Mar 09 sales cream, pen and remover sAlEs m m growth % New through-the-line consumer communications in the new footcare 169.3 161.5 4.8 Hard Skin range and Biomechanics orthotics inserts and footwear ranges Including Russia Ukraine and at constant exchange rates New brand architecture, developed globally strAtegy Launch of Think Feet diabetes foot health programme For Scholl footcare, a Brand Vision Plan has been developed to support our aim for double-digit growth over the coming years outlooK and to position Scholl to be the first choice in footcare for In 2010, an increased focus for Scholl footcare will be on consumers and customers.
Our mission is to drive awareness, developing markets such as Russia, China and India.
These areas understanding and use of Scholl footcare solutions to give represent a significant opportunity and will extend the global people healthier, more comfortable, better looking feet.
This reach of the Scholl brand.
We are also currently piloting a vision is supported by a pipeline of innovative footcare solutions, comprehensive e-commerce site in the UK, with a view to rolling strong consumer communications and a simplified range it out to other countries over the coming year.
2010 will see architecture, making the brand easier for consumers to navigate increasing cross promotion of Scholl footcare and Scholl and understand.
The Scholl team work closely with Salford footwear, as we take advantage of shared consumer insights.
University as well as other academics and medical professionals to develop the range.
2 bEst in ClAss bRAnds Our global brands, Durex and Scholl, are household names around the world.
Our expansion strategies for these brands are targeting continued growth, through a relentless focus on consumer insights, innovation and category expansion.
We have won local, regional and global awards, recognising the quality and performance of our products.
1 16 17 businEss REviEW CONTINUED  1. schollshoes contemporary Combining Italian style with comfort.
2. fullMarks Finding success in markets 2 around the world.
1 1 1 We will expand the presence of Biomechanics both footweAr through distribution and communication, together with Scholl footcare.
Scholl footwears web presence will also be improved, to Adjusted 31Mar10 31 Mar 09 sales support our positioning and exploit e-commerce opportunities.
sAlEs m m growth % locAllyownedBrAnds footwear 105.9 98.6 7.4 strAtegy Our locally-owned brands play an important part in achieving At constant exchange rates operating profit objectives by improving overall sales and distribution efficiencies.
strAtegy Our footwear team have been focusing on supporting both of highlights their key channels to consolidate sales through pharmacies and expanding the shoe trade business.
This will ensure Full Marks is the fastest growing brand in its category within the continued growth in existing markets and the entrance in UK and Ireland.
It is now also sold by SSL in Spain, Italy, Australia emerging ones.
and Germany as K. Laus and will soon be launched in Russia Other strong performances came from painkillers Medinol, highlights Cuprofen and Anbesol, Ashton & Parsons teething powders Introduction of Biomechanics, Mama Be, Hydrastep and Starlit and anti-diarrhoeal treatment Diocalm in pharmacy channel Launch of new Mister Baby range of skin regeneration products Continued co-operation with Industria del Design and Dolcini and Sauber Deo Dress deodorant Studio to develop new products that merge technology and style and exploit proven successes like Bahama, Bimini and Aisha outlooK Over the next year we will continue to support these brands outlooK locally, with the ongoing aim of fulfilling the needs of the target In the coming year we will be developing new technologies for markets.
The success of Full Marks in the UK, driven by a pharmacies, and developing the Contemporary range with its multi-award winning advertising campaign, has provided a good own unique and distinctive style.
The new brand positioning foundation for the continued growth of the brand.
With the for the Contemporary range will be supported by significant return to economic growth in our core markets of Italy and the advertising investment across the key markets.
UK we hope to see good performances from these brands over the coming year.
SSL AN Y U KEY RElAtiOnships consuMers BusinesspArtners SSL is a consumer-driven company we put consumers at We partner with a range of different businesses, from our the heart of everything we do.
We make direct contact with suppliers to academic institutions to marketing agencies them through social media, help lines, market research and who all contribute to the success of our business.
In recent competitions and indirect contact through other partners years, we have also worked closely with entrepreneurial such as our customers.
New product development is based companies to develop new innovations and products on the insights we gain from consumers and our aim is to that we then take to market.
We continue to have strong create products that meet their evolving needs.
relationships with banks and other financial institutions, and work closely with our minority shareholders such as our partners in Russia and India.
custoMers SSLs customers are the retailers and distributors who ensure our products reach our consumers.
These range  from large global chains to small family-owned outlets.
Our One of our key principles at SSL is that local and international relationship with our customers of all sizes is crucial to our regulation supports our business goals that is, producing success as we maintain a dialogue with them to ensure our quality products that enhance peoples lives.
We work products meet their needs and those of our consumers.
closely with authorities to ensure our products and This is particularly important when it comes to new processes not only meet, but in most cases exceed, technologies, branding and packaging.
COnsuMER EngAgEMEnt 18 19 businEss REviEW CO O ON N NT T TI I IN N NU U UED ED ED  3 RObust OpERAting plAtfORM Our production facilities, distribution network and channels to market provide the foundations of our business.
We are confident not only of their efficiency, but also their agility to meet the evolving demands and future requirements of our customers and consumers.
The official opening of our Qingdao facility was celebrated in July 2009.
HIGH LeVeLS f U LItY U C NSUme S ex eCt operAtions supportivesysteMs As our sales continue to grow and the demand for new, supplychAin innovative products is ever more important, our robust Concentrating the production of our Durex brand in China, India production base has been fundamental.
We are working also and Thailand has provided the benefit of lower cost production to ensure that our back-office systems can support our growth while maintaining the high levels of quality our consumers have in the most efficient way possible.
come to expect from the brand.
Over the past 12 months we have continued our rollout Our facility in Qingdao, China, formally opened in July and investment in SAP across the business.
This year SAP has 2009, is the worlds largest condom factory, currently been introduced in our Italian, Polish and Japanese commercial employing 560 people.
In November 2009, the site gained the businesses and significant progress has been made in relevant export permits and began shipping products to our preparation for implementations in our Thai and UK factories.
Our plan is to continue to grow the The total number of implementations across the Group is now capacity of this site, so that by 2012 it is producing nearly one 24 18 commercial sites and six manufacturing.
We have also billion condoms annually.
completed further implementations of SAP Demand Planning to Our Thai factory in Bangpakong has also seen a continue the optimisation of our supply chain and commenced 30 per cent capacity increase, thanks to new lines and an implementation project for SAP Business Planning and demand from the worldwide commercial operation.
Simulation which will provide Sales and Operations Planning We have four factories in India that we operate with functionality across the Group.
We continue to be on track for our partner, TTK.
This year, we have invested in the facility completing our original SAP rollout in 2011.
When it is complete at Irungattukottai, installing equipment to develop Scholl we will have a single, stable platform across all commercial, Biomechanics in-house for the first time.
India has also seen manufacturing and warehousing units.
This will give greater significant investment in technologies to increase our capacity efficiency, shorten lead times, increase responsiveness and for synthetic condoms such as the new Durex Feeling range.
generate more accurate information for the Group.
Over the next year investment will continue across the Indian sites.
With our acquisition in Russia, we have also brought on digitAlstrAtegy board new facilities, such as a packing plant at Serpukhov, near As consumers spend more of their leisure time interacting within Moscow.
We are now trialling a new strategy based at this site, the digital space we are embracing the opportunity to reach our where foiled condoms are shipped from Asia and packed in consumers in new ways.
boxes on arrival at this site.
This allows more flexibility for local Scholl consumers have benefited from the launch of our markets and also saves on shipping costs.
We will assess this new brand and e-commerce site in the UK www.
co. uk pilot over the coming months and, if successful, may extend which has seen a successful first year of direct-to-consumer it further.
sales and is now being implemented across our global Scholl markets with the most recent launch in Sweden www.
20 21 businEss REviEW CONTINUED  He LtHY NeW UCt I eLINe Together with BLBVs existing shareholders and The websites provide a single destination for the Scholl consumer to access expert knowledge across the category management, we have made excellent progress in bringing our businesses together.
The underlying performance of the as well as our Footcare and Footwear products.
The sites encourage both direct purchase and drive in-store activity business since our partnership began has exceeded our expectations.
We believe that Russia will soon become our and are promoted with dedicated online marketing plans.
Our Durex consumers look to us to provide useful, single biggest market.
non-judgemental advice on their sex lives and well-being.
com was launched to innovAtiveApproAches address this opportunity.
At SSL, innovation is at the core of everything we do.
offers discussion forums, expert advice on sex than just developing new products, its a way of approaching matters and the chance to discuss sex frankly and openly.
The our business and our individual roles and is a key part of site has already attracted visitors from 115 countries since its our growth strategy.
This year, we have made some structural changes that The Durex team are also engaging with consumers via our provide a strong backbone for focused delivery of innovations.
global brand websites in over 60 markets plus on social media Our Product Delivery team is structured to deliver to our markets networks such as Facebook, Skyrock and Hyves.
We recently high quality, best-in-class new products, in line with our brand launched our first iPhone application, Spice Dice, with plans for strategies and to agreed timelines.
This team encompasses the more apps in the year ahead.
entire new product pipeline, from new product development We are actively listening to the online conversation and both in-house and via partnerships, to proactive Regulatory buzz around our brands and categories which provides useful and Quality teams.
We also have senior specialists who assess feedback and insights.
We will continue optimising the consumer technologies with an eye for genuine, breakthrough innovation.
journey across the digital landscape and provide a variety of Working together, the Product Delivery team are ensuring the opportunities for consumers to engage with our brands in their markets receive a regular drumbeat of new and improved digital world.
products which are based on consumer insight and need.
They categorise innovations under three headings tactical  opportunities to exploit in the short term, strategic brand build SSLs global expansion strategy is core to its success, with 85 per activities, and breakthrough, ground-breaking expansion cent of sales now coming from outside our home market of the projects.
With a pipeline of activities across these areas, we are UK.
We have seen benefits in particular from our new businesses confident we will continue to deliver to market high-quality, in Russia and Ukraine.
In 2008, we announced our plans to acquire BLBV, the We have also launched our Condom Technical Forum company that distributed the Contex condom brand in Russia, a coming together of innovation and manufacturing teams to as well as the company that distributes Contex in Ukraine.
Until look at best practice and future methods of production.
Already this point, our presence in these markets was limited, and the this group has identified improvements to compounding, synergies we identified made them an obvious choice for us.
This acquisition has been phased to ensure a smooth transition, allowing us to strengthen our control of BLBV in a staged and balanced manner.
4 iiiiinn nn nn nn nn nn nn nn nnO O O O O O O O Ov v v v v v v vA A A A A A A Ati ti ti tiO O On n n T T Thi hi his s s ye ye yea a ar r r we we we h h hav av ave e e c c co o on n ntin tin tinu u ue e ed d d to to to i i inv nv nve e es s st t t in in in th th the e e pr pr pro o oc c ces es ess s ses es es, , t t tr r raining aining aining an an and d d f f fa a ac c cili ili ilit t ti i ie e es s s t t th h hat at at will will will s s su u upp pp ppor or ort t t in in inn n no o ov v va a atio tio tion n n at at at SSL SSL SSL... We We We b b be e el l li i ie e eve five five in in inn n no o ov v va a atio tio tion n n is is is th th the e e c c cor or orn n ners ers erst t ton on one e e of of of o o our ur ur gr gr gro o ow w wth th th, , b b bot ot oth h h in in in t t ter er erms ms ms of of of n n new ew ew pr pr pro o od d duc uc uct t t fide fide dev v five e el l lopmen opmen opment t t, , an an and d d o o our ur ur ove ove over r ra a al l ll l l a a appr ppr ppro o oa a ac c ch h h to to to b b bu u usin sin sine e es s ss s s...
I I In n nv v ves es est t tmen men ment t ts s s in in in re re res s se e ea a arc rc rch h h an an and d d fide fide dev v five e el l lopmen opmen opment t t an an and d d ke ke key y y p p pa a ar r rt t tn n ne e er r rs s ship hip hips s s, , b b ba a ac c cke ke ked d d by by by th th the e e wo wo wor r rk k k of of of o o our ur ur n n new ew ew P P Pro ro rod d du u uc c ct t t D D fide e el l li i ive five ver r ry y y te te tea a am m m h h hav av ave e e a a al l lr r rea ea eady dy dy c c co o on n nt t tr r rib ib ibut ut ute e ed d d to to to th th this is is y y ye e ea a ar r rs s s b b b b bu u u u usin sin sin sin sine e e e es s s s ss s s s s p p pe e er r rf f fo o orm rm rman an anc c ce e e...
