Overview Chief executives review recognised as an exceptional charge in the 2010 Review of the business financial year.
A further exceptional charge of approximately 25million will be recognised during Since joining Tate & Lyle in October last year, the 2011 financial year in respect of long-term I have led a thorough, fact-based review of the contracts relating to the facility.
Companys current position, and an assessment of the opportunities and challenges in front of us.
As reported at the half year, we recognised an exceptional charge of 55 million following the Tate & Lyle has some real strengths we can decision to mothball the sucralose manufacturing build on.
It was clear to me as soon as I joined facility in McIntosh, Alabama.
the Company that acting safely, responsibly and sustainably, with high levels of integrity, The reorganisation of our food systems business in were hallmarks of Tate & Lyle.
The Company Europe will lead to exceptional cash costs totalling also has a large, cost efficient, and well invested 7 million, of which 3 million has been recognised manufacturing footprint, and deep technical in the 2010 financial year, with the balance process and applications expertise.
Our customer recognised in the 2011 financial year.
base includes many large, global companies with In the Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas whom we have strong, long-term relationships segment, following a review of the portfolio of based on our clear focus on quality, reliability and research and development projects in the context customer service.
We also have a long, successful of our new strategic focus, we have written off history of operating internationally and, as can 28million relating to a xanthan gum pilot plant be seen from the past years results, the potential and other related assets following the decision not for strong cash generation.
to pursue these products to full-scale production.
At the same time, we face a number of strategic Our sugar refining business in Israel continues and operational challenges.
Strategically, we to experience extremely challenging market operate in a number of different markets with conditions, with surplus refined sugar supplies different characteristics and needs.
We have solid placing considerable pressure on refining margins.
competitive positions in some of these markets, Given the continued decline in the businesss but in others a path to leadership is unclear.
We commercial prospects, we have recognised a continue to have a relatively large exposure to further impairment charge of 15million in addition commodity markets, with their inherent volatility to the charge of 9million recognised in 2009. and cyclicality, whilst, at the same time, having a limited exposure to key avenues of longer-term An exceptional gain of 42 million has been growth, in terms of categories and geographies.
recognised following the decision to close the UK Over the last few years there has also been Group Pension Scheme to future accrual from some inconsistency between strategic intent and April2011 and to remove the early retirement actual investment strategy, with the majority of discretion from November 2009. our capital having been spent on our commodity The tax impact on continuing net exceptional items rather than our speciality business.
Additionally, the operating model has lacked focus, and totalled a 112 million credit 2009 44million credit.
In addition, an exceptional tax credit of constrained rather than driven performance.
Finally, a number of enablers, such as the capital 15million has been recognised in the year relating to the release of certain tax provisions following the allocation and implementation process and the IS IT infrastructure, need significant strengthening.
resolution of issues with tax authorities.
In order to address these issues and reinvigorate Outlook Tate & Lyle, we will take steps to focus, fix and Looking forward, we anticipate that steady demand grow our business.
patterns for value added food ingredients will continue and, combined with the benefits of a 1.
Focus single plant sucralose manufacturing base, we In future, our purpose will be to grow our expect a modest improvement in value added food speciality food ingredients business.
We will do performance in the 2011 financial year.
this through deeper customer understanding, Within our primary markets, we expect continuing continuous innovation and agility, and through modest decline in US domestic sweetener demand building stronger positions in high-growth to be largely offset by increased demand from markets.
We will continue to drive sustained Mexico, and stable demand in other markets cash generation from our bulk ingredients and for primary food ingredients.
Despite some sugars businesses to fuel this growth.
improvement in demand patterns, industrial starch margins are expected to remain at lower levels, 2.
Fix reflecting industry overcapacity putting pressure on Fixing the operating model pricing, and we see little near-term improvement in The current business operating structure, with a ethanol markets.
Within Sugars, whilst unit refining mixture of regional and product-based business margins have returned, profitability in the 2011 units, does not support execution of the Groups financial year will be constrained by short-term strategy.
From 1 June 2010 we will reorganise supply challenges.
and operate through three global business units: Speciality Food Ingredients, Bulk Ingredients and Overall, we anticipate progress in the coming Sugars.
Each business unit will have a distinct financial year as we maintain our focus on the go-to-market organisation to provide the necessary disciplines necessary to continue delivering focus and bring the required expertise to the strong cash flows from our business.
different markets we serve, and each will have a dedicated manufacturing asset base.
6 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 move management closer to the business.
We Fixing the operations have developed clear guidelines on global talent The review of our approach to capital acquisition to upgrade our capabilities and fill skills investment planning and implementation, which we gaps in key areas.
We are taking steps to embed announced at our half-year results in November, a common, performance-driven culture within the has been largely completed, and will lead to a organisation, and to define clear organisational number of changes to the way we invest fixed values.
We are establishing a clearer, metric-driven, capital in our business in future.
For all major performance management process which will be capital projects, the approval process has been implemented during the coming year.
The Groups strengthened to incorporate a two-stage Board incentive system is also being restructured, to approval, including a more rigorous technical and ensure that at all levels of the organisation there commercial appraisal, supported where necessary is a sharp focus on what drives behaviour and by external experts.
A greater proportion of pay will be at regularly by the Group Executive Committee, as risk, with appropriate rewards to incentivise well as peer reviews, have also been added to outstanding performance.
sharpen the investment appraisal process.
We will also create a dedicated, internal resource, independent of the operations, with responsibility Fixing the investment focus for oversight of all capital expenditure.
Over the past four financial years, around twothirds of our capital has been invested in our We have already made huge strides in the way we commodity business with one-third in our speciality control working capital in our business, evident business.
Geographically, investment has been from the improvement delivered in the 2010 overwhelmingly focused on the developed markets financial year.
There is a much clearer appreciation with emerging markets largely ignored.
within the organisation now of the need for working capital optimisation and this is something I intend Over time, our investment focus will be realigned to build on.
To this end, we have implemented to our strategy: our engine of growth and the focus standard measures of working capital efficiency of acquisitions will be speciality food ingredients, across the Group, and have set clear targets by with greater emphasis on emerging markets.
In the 2011 financial year, these targets bulk ingredients and sugars businesses remain will, for the first time, be linked to management strong and valued businesses, and we will continue incentive structures.
to invest appropriately in order to increase their efficiency and generate cash.
Our three business units will be supported by global support services, using shared service centres 3.
Grow to eliminate duplication and rationalise resources A new unit, the Innovation and Commercial required.
This will also allow us to redeploy some Development group, will be established, dedicated needed resources to the front end of our business.
to driving sustained long-term growth, with a key focus on speciality food ingredients.
This unit will integrate R&D, global marketing and global We are refocusing our product management, and will enable a fully strategy, with our speciality integrated approach to developing and commercialising innovation.
food ingredients business being We expect to achieve growth both in our existing the key focus of investment and markets, through the benefits of our new operating model and investment focus, and also in emerging long-term growth.
markets and in the smalland medium-sized enterprise SME and private-label customer segments, where we have limited presence today.
We have already started work to strengthen operational enablers, by establishing a common set Our new operating structure will provide a clean of performance metrics across the business and we platform from which to grow the business, both will move to a single global IS IT platform to drive organically and through acquisitions.
improved global decision making over the next two years.
Although it will take time, I am confident that Conclusion the steps we are taking now will lay the foundation This statement has outlined our strategy of to deliver significant improvements in operational focusing on growing our speciality food ingredients execution over the coming months and years.
business, and set out a number of important changes to our operating model and the way Exceptional costs of 8 million associated with we function.
We will report a set of performance the reorganisation and restructuring of the Groups metrics which will measure progress towards activities are expected to be recognised in the delivery of this strategy, and are creating reward 2011 financial year, with further exceptional costs structures aligned to these metrics.
expected to be in the region of 13million the following year.
These cash costs are expected Through these changes we will build the platform subsequently to pay back within two years.
to deliver sustainable long-term value for our Additionally, we are developing a detailed employees, our customers and our shareholders.
implementation plan for a common, global IS IT platform, which we anticipate will be implemented Javed Ahmed over the next 24 months.
Chief Executive 26 May 2010 Fixing the organisation In order to fix our organisation, we are taking action to address our structure, our talent and our culture.
We will simplify and fide-layer the organisation Find out more about Tate & Lyle structure to accelerate decision-making and at www.
com Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 7 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
