direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, WHSmith also reaches customers via www.
co. uk the members of the Company, as a body, and no other serving customers online 24 hours a day.
The Company, its directors, employees, agents The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any SMWH and is included in the FTSE 250 Index.
other person to whom this document is shown or into More information about the business is available whose hands it may come and any such responsibility at www.
or liability is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing buSineSS obJeCtiVeS and StrategieS the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs future events and circumstances can cause results and most popular stationer, bookseller and newsagent developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
by continuing to grow its strongly performing Travel The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge business and delivering its High Street plan.
and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no We aim to improve the Companys profitability and obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
cash flow generation, delivering sustainable returns to Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as shareholders.
We believe that a concentration on these a profit forecast.
factors will be reflected in a total shareholder return that compares well with our peer group of equivalent listed companies.
We invest where we believe we will achieve a return WHSmith intends to build on on investment above our cost of capital.
While external its position as the UKs most economic and other factors might affect us in the short term, we believe that most of the markets we are popular stationer, bookseller focused on will deliver sustainable returns.
and newsagent by continuing Travel is focused on delivering value to shareholders through organic growth in its existing outlets, securing to grow its strongly performing new contracts, trialling new formats, increasing average transaction value and making improvements Travel business and delivering to trading efficiency.
The High Street plan remains unchanged and concentrates on building on our authority in core categories, optimising margins, controlling costs and ensuring we deliver the retail basics.
High Street has PrinCiPaL aCtiVitieS made significant progress in the delivery of its plan.
The Company, one of the UKs leading retail groups, is made up of two core businesses Travel and High We aim to act responsibly towards all our stakeholders, Street.
Travel sells a tailored selection of Newspapers, including customers, suppliers, business partners, Magazines, Books and Impulse products in airports, employees and the communities in which we operate.
train stations, motorway service areas, hospitals, Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report is available workplaces and bus stations: and High Street sells at www.
co. uk corporate responsibility, a wide range of Stationery, Books, Newspapers, with a summary of our approach on pages 15 to 17 Magazines and Impulse products and a convenience of this report.
WHSmiths outlets are frequently the first choice for people buying our products on the high street and we are a trusted convenience retailer for customers at travel locations.
We have an extensive store portfolio operating from 516 Travel units including franchise units and 573 High Street stores, with leading positions in Stationery, Books and Magazines.
Overall, WHSmith employs approximately 17,000 staff, primarily in the UK.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 4 CHief exeCutiVeS reVieW group summary 1 This year, the Group has delivered another good profit The Group generated profit before tax and exceptional performance.
Both businesses continued to create value items of 89m 2009: 82m, an increase of nine per through their distinct strategies, with Travel delivering cent on the prior year.
Total Group profit before tax 1 1 record profit in the year and further profit growth and was 89m 2009: 81m.
strong cash generation from the High Street.
2 Underlying earnings per share increased by 11 per cent to 45.7p 2009: 41.3p, with earnings per share 3 including exceptional items of 45.7p 2009: 40.6p.
Going forward, the cash generative The Group remains highly cash generative and continues to have a strong balance sheet.
Net funds nature of the Group will be a key were 56m versus net funds of 45m as at 31 August 4 2009.
Group free cash flow was 82m 2009: 89m.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 13.3p per share, an increase of 18 per cent on the prior year, giving a total ordinary dividend per share of 19.4p, The Group remains highly cash generative and has a a 16 per cent increase on the prior year.
In addition, strong balance sheet.
At the year end, the Group had the Board has announced the return of up to 50m of net funds of 56m.
This strong position has enabled us cash to shareholders through a rolling share buyback to announce a further return of cash to shareholders by programme.
The proposed increase in final dividend, way of an on market share buyback and an 18 per cent together with the return of cash to shareholders, increase in the proposed final dividend.
Going forward, reflects the cash generative nature of the Group and the cash generative nature of the Group will be a key the Boards confidence in its future prospects.
Travel delivered a record performance, with operating Both the Travel and the High Street businesses have 1 profit increasing by ten per cent to 53m.
During the continued to deliver operating performance ahead of year, Travel made further progress in its established expectations, achieved through strong cost control, channels, Air, Rail and Motorways, as well as in its increased gross margins and taking sales opportunities newer channels, Workplaces, Hospitals and when they arose.
The Group has a strong and consistent record of both 1 High Street profit was 51m, up four per cent on profit growth and cash generation.
Our profit the prior year with the business continuing to deliver performance demonstrates the Groups relative consistent profit growth and cash generation.
We resilience in the current climate.
In High Street our continue with our strategy to rebalance the mix of average transaction value is relatively low, which our business towards our core categories and reduce means the business is less impacted than higher ticket our presence in Entertainment, to optimise margins retailers in times of economic uncertainty.
In Travel, and maintain tight cost control.
our turnover-related rental contracts give us a partial profit shield.
As a Group we are well positioned for Total Group sales were 1,312m 2009: 1,340m with the recovery and for future growth.
like-for-like LFL sales down four per cent.
Travel sales grew by one per cent to 452m, down two per cent on a LFL basis.
High Street sales were down four per cent at 860m and down four per cent on a LFL basis excluding Entertainment, LFL sales were down one per cent.
1 Profit from trading operations is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation 2 Profit after tax and before exceptional items diluted 3 EPS as per IAS 33 diluted 4 Net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure, pension deficit funding, tax refunds and net interest received Annual Report and Accounts 2010 WH Smith PLC 5 direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW WHSmith travel Travels business model is made up of three elements: a compelling customer proposition, a strong track nature of business and markets record with landlords, and the ability to translate The Travel business trades under the same brand as the fundamentals of the model to other formats the High Street business and operates 516 units, mainly and channels.
in airports, railway stations, motorway service areas, hospitals, workplaces and bus stations, primarily in the growth drivers UK.
Of the 516 units, 128 are operated under franchise The Travel business offers opportunities for expansion agreements.
Travel stores sell a more tailored range in each of its channels and continues to win new of products than High Street stores, to cater for people on contracts in airports, railway stations, motorway the move or in need of a convenience offer.
Travels typical service areas, hospitals and workplaces.
Despite soft customer has less time to browse than the High Street airport passenger numbers, medium-term forecasts customer and is more interested in reading materials suggest that passenger numbers in Air will return to for a journey as well as purchasing food, drinks and growth and Travel is well-positioned to benefit when confectionery.
Consequently, there is a limited demand the recovery comes.
In Rail, Hospitals and Motorways, for stationery and entertainment products and the product we have seen little change in customer trends.
range and format of each Travel store reflects this.
The business continues to develop other store formats such as specialist bookstores, and a tailored workplace format, and we are testing different operating models in travel locations overseas: directly run, partnership The Travel business offers and franchise.
As at 31 August 2010 we operated from opportunities for expansion in six international locations.
each of its channels and continues Competitive position and strengths The Travel business is impacted by geopolitical events, to win new contracts war and acts of terrorism, which have from time to time contributed to a reduction in commuter and travelling customer traffic and a heightened apprehension around rail and air travel.
Closure of routes, both planned Due to their location and  and unplanned, such as strikes and weather-related nature, Travel stores are, on average, significantly disruption, as well as other factors affecting passenger smaller than those in the High Street portfolio.
At traffic, can also affect operating results.
31 August 2010, Travel operated from a total of 0.4m square feet of selling space, with units ranging in size Travel faces competition in its product categories from 90 square feet to more than 6,000 square feet.
Of primarily from other convenience retailers in rail, air, the 516 Travel units, 136 are in airports, 117 in railway motorways, hospitals and workplaces.
The growth stations, 119 in motorway service areas most of which of these retailers may take market share from Travel are franchise units, 103 in hospitals and 24 in locations and have a negative impact on revenue and profit.
such as bus stations and workplaces.
Seventeen units Travel has significant competitive strengths.
Its are in non-UK locations in France, Republic of Ireland, business model is made up of three elements: Denmark, Sweden, India and Oman.
a compelling customer proposition with a widely Travel has a separate operating structure and recognised and respected brand, a strong track management team from High Street, reflecting the record with landlords, and the ability to translate distinct operational and strategic challenges of the two the fundamentals of the model to other formats businesses.
Travel stores are typically in higher footfall and channels.
The business also has prime locations locations than High Street stores, resulting in higher in each of its main channels: high levels of customer average rents, with rents paid as a percentage of sales footfall: purchasing and sourcing scale: and an subject to minimum guarantees.
Travel is less experienced senior management team.
Considering affected by the Christmas trading period.
Increased all these factors, the Board believes that Travel is passenger traffic during the summer holiday season, well placed to create shareholder value by delivering particularly in airports, contributes to a summer peak long-term profit growth and strong cash generation.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 6 Performance review 2009 10 We have made good progress in our new workplace 1 Travel achieved further profit growth with the business channel with eight units now open either within or being well placed for recovery in air passenger numbers.
just outside large office buildings.
We would expect 1 Profit increased by ten per cent to 53m 2009: 48m, to open a further 40 new units over the next five years.
achieved as a result of increased sales combined with Our international units are performing well, with improved gross margin and good cost control.
customers reacting favourably to both the WHSmith brand and offer.
We have now opened a further 16 new units in international locations: Copenhagen, % LFL % Stockholm, Shannon, Calais, Muscat and Delhi.
We m 2010 2009 Change Change also announced on 14 October 2010 our plans to open Revenue 452 448 1% 2% units in three further international locations: Mumbai, Profit from Melbourne and Sydney.
1 trading operations 53 48 10% 1 Profit from trading operations is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before Our international units are allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation performing well, with customers Total Travel revenue grew by one per cent driven by new business, and was down two per cent on a LFL basis, reacting favourably to both the with revenue continuing to outperform air passenger numbers.
Gross margin increased by around 170 basis WHSmith brand and offer.
points bps during the period, due to good category mix management and further buying improvements, resulting in more sales in higher margin categories such as books, confectionery and drinks.
The Travel business now operates from 516 units, including motorway service area franchise units and In our Airport stores we saw LFL sales down four per coffee shops.
Seven units were closed, primarily due cent.
Air passenger numbers remain soft, however we to landlord redevelopment.
We renewed 23 contracts continue to deliver performance ahead of passenger and completed seven refits during the year.
We saw some disruption during the period motorway service area franchise units, Travel occupies due to airline strike days and the volcanic ash cloud 0.4m square feet 2009: 0.4m square feet.
grounding planes, however our turnover-related rental model provided us with a partial profit shield.
Medium term, we expect that passenger numbers will return to pre-recession growth levels.
However we expect passenger numbers to remain subdued in the short term so we are planning cautiously.
We are well positioned when recovery does come.
We continue to grow our space in Air and during the year we opened seven new units at locations including Belfast landside and Edinburgh arrivals and we plan to open a further eight units during the coming year.
In our Rail channel, LFL sales were up one per cent.
We have identified further opportunities to open rail stores and opened four new units in regional rail locations in the year including Kingston upon Thames and Woking.
We plan to open units in around six other regional railway stations in the year ahead.
In recent years, we have established a strong presence in the Hospital channel and now have 103 units open which are performing well.
During the year we opened nine new units at locations including Watford and Doncaster.
We continue to see growth opportunities in this channel and expect to open around 50 new units over the next five years.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 WH Smith PLC 7 direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW WHSmith High Street High Street has significant competitive strengths.
The Board believes it is well placed to deliver strong cash nature of business, market and competitive position generation and create shareholder value through factors The High Street business operates 573 stores with an such as its widely respected and recognised brand: prime extensive reach across the UK and a presence on nearly sites in key UK high street retail locations: high customer every significant UK high street.
At 31 August 2010, High footfall: leading positions in its core categories, allowing Street operated from a total of 3.0m square feet of selling it to operate with scale: purchasing and sourcing scale, space, with stores ranging in size from 777 square feet driving value for the customer: and an experienced senior to more than 23,000 square feet.
High Street sells a wide range of products, which are divided into four categories: Stationery including Performance review 2009 10 greetings cards, Books, and News and Impulse The High Street business delivered another solid including newspapers, magazines, confectionery and performance, demonstrating the resilience of the other impulse products, as well as a convenience offer business in uncertain economic conditions.
High Street 1 of DVD products in some stores.
High Streets trading operating profit increased by four per cent to 51m is seasonal, peaking at Christmas, with other peaks 2009: 49m with the business continuing to deliver at Easter and in August and September for the consistent profit growth.
This was achieved through Back to School range.
continuing to build our authority in our core categories, optimising margins, tightly controlling costs and The online retail business is operated by High Street delivering the retailing basics.
Cash generation in the and sells a range of Stationery, Books, Magazines division continued to be strong.
and Gifts through its website at www.
co. uk and Entertainment products through High Street sales were down four per cent and on a LFL www.
basis down four per cent, in line with our strategic plan to rebalance the mix of our business towards our core categories.
Excluding Entertainment, LFL sales were down one per cent.
The High Street business delivered another solid performance, % LFL % m 2010 2009 Change Change demonstrating the resilience Revenue 860 892 4% 4% of the business in uncertain Profit from 1 trading operations 51 49 4% economic conditions.
1 Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges growth drivers High Streets performance is dependent upon overall We continue to build on our market-leading position growth in consumer spending, growth in the non-food, in Stationery.
LFL sales were up one per cent and, as non-clothing sector and High Streets ability to take share planned, gross margin was also up.
We saw a strong in its product markets.
The management team believes market share performance in both general and seasonal that, following the current slowdown in consumer stationery driven in part by additional space given to spending in our markets, we should see a return to general stationery at Christmas to continue driving sales more normal levels of growth over the longer term.
of everyday essentials through the period.
This space then transferred to seasonal stationery post-Christmas Competitive position and strengths to more effectively manage clearance and markdowns.
High Streets competition comes primarily from other high Our stock position coming out of the key Christmas period street specialists, supermarkets and internet retailers.
was good and helped to support the margin growth in Online retailers offer customers access to our product the category.
We continue to develop new ranges, such categories via their computers, while supermarkets give as educational toys, which are performing well and customers access to our product categories as they carry enhance our strong childrens offer.
As part of the out their regular food shopping.
The growth of either retail development of the category, we have also completely format may take market share away from the High Street re-launched our personalised greetings cards offer business and may have a negative effect on the sales and through the Funky Pigeon brand.
profit generated by our High Street stores.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 8 In Books, LFL sales were down but gross margin was reductions in shrinkage by focusing on our worst up year on year.
The books market was soft, however performing stores.
performance varied by category, with fiction up year on Cost savings continue to be a core part of our strategy year, kids flat and non fiction down with the reduction in and we made good progress again in the year.
Our target sales of celebrity biographies being a key driver of market for 2010 was 12m and this was achieved, with the decline over the period.
We again saw further good share savings coming from all areas of the business, including performance versus the general retail market as we the variable costs associated with Entertainment, further continue to implement our strategy to build our authority efficiencies in store through the use of more technology as a popular book specialist.
The strength of our position and supply chain efficiencies as we successfully opened enabled us to secure the rights to launch the new Richard our new distribution centre in Birmingham.
Looking and Judy Book Club, exclusively to WHSmith, and also forward, we have identified a further 13m of savings saw WHSmith awarded Childrens Bookseller of the Year.
to be made up to 2013, making a total of 25m over the We are building a strong position in the developing eBooks next three years, with our Birmingham distribution centre market with our eBookstore currently offering around playing an important role, generating annual savings 30,000 eBooks at very competitive prices and accessible of around 2m.
via PCs, tablet devices including the iPad, eReaders and 1 smart phones.
The High Street business now operates from 573 stores, which occupy 3.0m square feet 2009: 3.0m square feet.
We opened eight new stores in unserved catchments, including Clitheroe, Amersham and Thirsk, and plan We again saw further good to open around 15 this year.
1 Including branches in Guernsey and Isle of Man share performance versus the group profit general retail market as we The Group generated a profit before tax and exceptional items of 89m 2009: 82m, an increase of nine per cent continue to implement our on the prior year.
Profit from trading operations strategy to build our authority increased to 104m, up seven per cent on the prior year.
as a popular book specialist Profit Growth m 2010 2009 % News and Impulse LFL sales were down year on year Travel2 53 48 10% 2 but with an improvement in gross margin.
The magazine High Street 51 49 4% market continues to be challenging, particularly for 2 Profit from trading operations 104 97 7% monthly magazines and partworks where we are Unallocated central costs 15 14 traditionally strong.
However, we have maintained our Operating profit3 89 83 7% market share.
Our expanded bookazine ranges have Net finance income charges 1 contributed to this market share performance, with 3 popular titles including the iPad bookazine.
Impulse Profit before taxation 89 82 9% categories continued to grow during the year with some 2 Profit from trading operations stated after directly attributable defined benefit following the closure of Woolworths.
benefit service charge and share-based payment costs and before central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation In Entertainment, we continued with our strategy to 3 Stated before exceptional items reduce steadily our presence in this category and we saw LFL sales down 42 per cent.
During the year, we net finance charges and taxation completed the exit from music and multimedia.
Our Net finance charges in the year were nil 2009: 1m Entertainment offer now focuses on a small range of reflecting the higher cash balances during the year.
DVDs in around 350 of our stores.
The tax charge for the year was 20m 2009: 18m.
We delivered margin improvement of around 150bps over The effective tax rate on continuing activities excluding the course of the year.
The biggest contributor continues exceptional items was 23 per cent 2009: 22 per cent.
to be category mix management as we reduce our We expect the effective tax rate to remain below the presence in Entertainment and rebalance the mix of the UK standard rate over the medium term.
The exact tax business to focus on higher margin categories such as rate achieved will depend on the underlying profitability Stationery and Books.
Additional margin improvement of the Group and continued progress in agreeing has come from better buying terms, improved markdown outstanding tax assessments with the tax authorities.
management, particularly in Stationery, and further Annual Report and Accounts 2010 WH Smith PLC 9 direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW exceptional items Cash flow There were no exceptional items recognised in the year The Group generated 82m 2009: 89m of free cash ended 31 August 2010.
In the prior period the Group flow during the period.
recognised a 1m exceptional charge before tax in relation to discontinued operations.
A 4m exceptional m 2010 2009 charge was incurred arising from the crystallisation 3 Operating profit 89 83 of reversionary property leases and a 3m exceptional Depreciation, amortisation and credit was recognised from progress made on the amounts written off fixed assets 39 41 winding up of the USA Travel business.
Working capital 3 11 Capital expenditure 29 28 earnings per share Tax 27 23 1 Underlying earnings per share increased by 11 per cent Net interest received 1 to 45.7p 2009: 41.3p, reflecting the increase in profit Net provisions 1 1 combined with a lower basic weighted average number Share-based payments 7 6 of shares in issue, following the share buyback.
The Free cash flow 82 89 Group generated earnings per share including 2 exceptional items of 45.7p 2009: 40.6p.
The prior year 3 Stated before exceptional items includes the 1m exceptional charge detailed above.
Cash inflows from working capital in the period were 3m due to the continued focus on working capital management.
Final dividend of 13.3p per Capital expenditure was 29m in the year, 1m higher than last year.
In 2010, we opened 33 new Travel units ordinary share, an increase of including Kingston-upon-Thames and Woking, and eight 18 per cent on the prior year.
High Street stores including Clitheroe, Amersham and Thirsk.
We continue to invest in maintaining our retail properties and during the period we have undertaken refurbishments in both High Street and Travel stores.
dividends In the current year, we expect capital expenditure to The Board is proposing a final dividend of 13.3p per be around 35m.
ordinary share, an increase of 18 per cent on the prior year, which reflects the cash generative nature of the m 2010 2009 business and the Boards confidence in its future prospects.
This gives a total ordinary dividend for the New stores and store development 8 10 year of 19.4p per ordinary share, up 16 per cent on the Refurbished stores 10 9 prior year.
Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend Systems 8 6 will be paid on 3 February 2011 to shareholders Other 3 3 registered at the close of business on 7 January 2011.
Total capital expenditure 29 28 The Board has a progressive dividend policy and expects that, over time, dividends would be broadly covered twice by earnings calculated on a normalised During the year, the Company completed a 35m return tax basis.
of cash to shareholders by way of an on-market share buyback programme.
In addition to the 82m of free balance sheet and cash flow cash flow generated in the year, the Group has seen The Group had net assets of 186m 2009: 188m at a net cash outflow of 36m in relation to non trading the end of the period, a decrease of 2m since 31 August operations.
This includes 26m of ordinary dividend 2009 reflecting the profit and cash generation of the payments 2009: 23m, 13m pension funding 2009: Group over the period as well as the return of cash to 10m and a tax refund including associated interest shareholders through a rolling share buyback.
generative nature of the High Street and Travel As at 31 August 2010, the Group had net funds of 56m businesses is one of the strengths of the Group.
The Group has committed working capital facilities of 90m through to June 2011.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative, and preliminary discussions have commenced with banks regarding an appropriate new facility.
As a result, the 1 Profit after tax and before exceptional items diluted Group is confident that an appropriate committed facility 2 EPS as per IAS 33 diluted will be in place by June 2011.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 10 return on Capital employed operating leases Total capital employed and ROCE were as follows: The Groups stores are held mainly under operating leases that are not capitalised and therefore are not included as debt for accounting purposes.
The High ROCE % Street leases are on standard institutional lease terms, Operating with typically with a 15-year term, subject to five-year capital operating upwards-only rent reviews.
The Travel stores operate employed ROCE leases 1 2 3 mainly through turnover-related leases, usually with m % capitalised minimum rent guarantees, and generally varying in Travel 55 96% 24% length from five to ten years.
High Street 134 38% 15% The business has an annual minimum net rental Trading operations 189 55% 19% commitment of 161m 2009: 160m net of 7m of Unallocated central liabilities 58 external rent receivable 2009: 7m.
The total future Operating assets employed 131 68% 18% rental commitment at the balance sheet date amounted to 1,047m 2009: 1,039m, with the leases having 1 Net assets adjusted for net funds and retirement benefit obligations an average life of six years.
Although large, these 2 Return on capital employed is calculated as the operating profit before commitments are characteristic of the retail sector exceptional items as a percentage of operating capital employed and the risks associated with them are influenced 3 Return on capital employed after capitalised net operating leases mainly by the quality and location of the sites.
including internal rent is calculated as the adjusted profit as a percentage of operating assets after capitalising operating leases.
Adjusted profit is stated after adding back the annual net rent and Contingent liabilities charging depreciation on the value of capitalised leases.
The value of The Group has contingent liabilities relating to capitalised operating leases is based on the net present value of future rent commitments reversionary property leases.
Any such contingent liability which crystallises will be apportioned between For the prior year, comparable ROCE was 57 per cent the Group and Smiths News PLC in the ratio 65:35 17 per cent - after capitalised operating leases.
pursuant to the terms of the demerger agreement provided that the Smiths News PLC liability is limited Pensions to 5m in any 12-month period.
We have estimated the Following the completion of the triennial valuation as at Groups 65 per cent share of the future cumulative rental March 2009 of the main defined benefit pension scheme, commitment at approximately 40m 2009: 50m.
the WHSmith Pension Trust, the Company and the Trustees agreed a revised deficit funding schedule of outlook approximately 11m per annum subject to indexation This year, we have seen another strong profit for the following ten years.
The scheme had an actuarial performance from the Group.
Both businesses have deficit of 113m as at 31 March 2009, with the increase created value through their own distinct strategies, with from the previous valuation mainly due to changes in Travel delivering further profit growth and strong cash mortality assumptions.
The Liability Driven Investment generation from High Street.
These results could not LDI structure continues to perform well.
The scheme have been achieved without the hard work and has been closed to new members since 1996 and, from commitment of our staff and I would like to thank them 2007, has been closed to defined benefit service accrual.
for their commitment and support throughout the year.
During the year the Company made a contribution of 13m, which includes a catch-up payment relating to Looking forward, we are not expecting any improvement the period from March 2009 to the date the revised in consumer spending or in air passenger numbers this contributions started to be paid.
year, but our plans reflect this and we have shown that we can deliver performance improvements in a tough The Groups IAS 19 pension deficit of 1m 2009: 2m trading climate.
The Group has demonstrated its relates to the relatively small UNS defined benefit resilience and is well positioned for future growth pension scheme.
The IAS 19 valuation of the WHSmith and to continue to deliver value to shareholders.
Pension Trust at 31 August 2010 was a surplus of 94m 2009: 26m, which is not recognised.
There is an actuarial deficit due to the different assumptions and Kate Swann calculation methodologies used compared with those group Chief executive, WH Smith PLC under IAS 19.
14 October 2010 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 WH Smith PLC 11 direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW Key PerformanCe indiCatorS Details of key performance indicators used by management of the business are provided below: % 2010 2009 % LFL m m Change Change Profit 1 Travel 53 48 10% 1 High Street 51 49 4% Group profit before tax and exceptional items 89 82 9% 2 Underlying earnings per share 45.7p 41.3p 11% Revenue Travel 452 448 1% 2% High Street 860 892 4% 4% Group 1,312 1,340 2% 4% Gross margin 160bps 220bps 3 Free cash flow 82 89 Fixed charges cover 1.5x 1.5x retail selling space Stores Units Selling Space Sq ft 000s % % 2010 2009 Change 2010 2009 Change 4 Travel units 516 490 5% 422 403 5% High Street stores 573 565 1% 3,020 3,007 1 Profit from trading operations is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation 2 Profit after tax and before exceptional items diluted 3 Net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure, pension deficit funding, tax refunds and net interest received 4 Includes 115 Motorway franchise units 2009: 115 units : 13 airport franchise units 2009: 6 units and 12 Caffe Nuovo units 2009: 12 units WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 12 PrinCiPaL riSKS and unCertaintieS Supplier Code of Conduct which covers areas such as The Corporate Governance Report on pages 17 to 24 production methods, employee working conditions and describes the process through which the Directors quality control.
WHSmith has contractual and other assess, manage and mitigate risks.
The Board regularly arrangements with numerous third parties in support reviews the risks faced by the Group.
WHSmiths of its business activities.
None of the arrangements is management team has identified the following factors individually considered to be essential to the business as major potential risks to the successful performance of WHSmith.
The Board considers the risks set out below to represent the Groups principal risks and Store portfolio uncertainties.
WHSmiths management team The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio recognises that the profile of risks changes constantly are key contributors to the Groups strategy.
Retailing and additional risks not presently known, or that are from a portfolio of good quality real estate in prime currently deemed immaterial, may also impact the retail areas and at commercially reasonable rates Groups business objectives and performance.
remains critical to the performance of the Group.
All of High Streets stores are held under operating leases, economic and market risks and consequently the Group is exposed to the extent As a UK retailer, WHSmith is sensitive to the economic that any store becomes unviable as a result of rental climate and can be affected by the general condition inflation.
Most Travel stores are held under concession of the UK retail and travel markets.
Factors such as agreements on average for 5-10 years.
There is no household disposable income, weather, seasonality of guarantee that concessions will be renewed or that sales, changing demographics and raw material costs Travel will be able to bid successfully for new contracts.
will impact the Groups profit performance.
Through The majority of Travels airport and railway concession development of our product ranges and pricing agreements contain change of control clauses, giving strategy, the Group works to ensure we deliver value various rights to the grantor of the concession, such as for all our customers.
WHSmith operates in highly termination of the contract, in the event of a successful competitive markets and our failure to compete takeover bid for WHSmith.
effectively with convenience and category-specific retailers may affect revenues obtained through our business interruption stores.
The retail industry is subject to changing An outbreak of a pandemic disease, an act of terrorism customer tastes.
WHSmiths performance is dependent or war could reduce the number of customers visiting upon effectively predicting and quickly responding to WHSmith outlets, causing a decline in revenue and changing consumer demands.
We must also translate profit.
In the past our Travel business has been market trends into saleable merchandise.
particularly impacted by geopolitical events such as the terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001 and 7 July 2005, reliance on the WHSmith brand which led to reductions in customer traffic.
Closure of The WHSmith brand is an important asset.
Failure travel routes both planned and unplanned, such as the to protect it, an event that materially damages its disruption caused by weather-related events, may also reputation and or the failure to sustain its appeal to have a material effect on business.
The Group operates customers could have an adverse effect on revenues.
from three distribution centres and the closure of any The Group regularly monitors key service and one of them may cause disruption to the business.
The compliance measures to ensure operating standards Group has business continuity plans in place which are are maintained.
regularly reviewed, updated and tested.
In common with most retail businesses, WHSmith relies on a Key suppliers and supply chain management number of important IT systems.
Any system WHSmith has agreements with key suppliers in the UK, performance problems could seriously affect our ability Europe and the Far East.
The interruption or loss of to trade.
The Group expects that these systems will supply of core category products from these suppliers require ongoing investment to ensure that they are able to our stores may affect our ability to trade.
Quality of to respond to the needs of the business and do not supply issues may also impact the Groups reputation become obsolete.
Back-up facilities and business and impact our ability to trade.
The Group conducts continuity plans are in place and are tested regularly to risk assessments of all its key suppliers to identify ensure that business interruptions are minimised and alternatives and develop contingency plans in the event data is protected from corruption or unauthorised use.
that any of these key suppliers fail.
All suppliers also have to comply with the conditions laid out in our Annual Report and Accounts 2010 WH Smith PLC 13 direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW reliance on key personnel provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other The performance of the Group depends on its ability to stakeholders, while optimising return to shareholders continue to attract, motivate and retain key head office through an appropriate balance of debt and equity and store staff.
The retail sector is very competitive and funding.
The Group manages its capital structure the Groups personnel are frequently targeted by other and makes adjustments to it in light of changes to companies for recruitment.
The Remuneration economic conditions and the strategic objectives Committee monitors the levels and structure of of the Group.
remuneration for senior management and seeks to ensure that they are designed to attract, retain and Interest rate risk motivate the key personnel to run the Group successfully.
The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on floating rate bank loans and overdrafts.
At 31 August treasury and financial risk management 2010, the Group has nil 2009: nil drawn down from The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce its committed revolving credit facility.
The Group exposures to interest rate, foreign exchange and other periodically draws down on this facility, but does not financial risks, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available see any draw down as long-term in nature and has to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets therefore not entered into interest rate derivatives safely and profitably.
The Group does not engage in to mitigate this risk.
speculative trading in financial instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business Foreign currency risk requirements.
The Groups treasury policies and The Groups foreign currency exposures are principally procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by to the US dollar and euro.
The Group uses forward the Audit Committee and are subject to regular Group foreign exchange contracts to hedge significant future Internal Audit review.
The Groups exposure to and transactions and cash flows denominated in currencies management of capital, liquidity, credit, interest rate other than pounds sterling.
The hedging instruments and foreign currency risk are summarised below.
have been used to hedge purchases in US dollars and Further detail can be found in Note 25 of the accounts.
to minimise foreign exchange risk in movements of the USD GBP exchange rates.
The euro exposure is Liquidity risk principally operational and arises mainly through the The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by operation of retail stores in both France and Ireland.
reviewing the cash resources required to meet its The Group does not use derivatives to hedge balance business objectives through both short and long-term sheet and profit and loss translation exposure.
The Group has a committed facility with a number of financial institutions which is Pensions and investment risk management available to be drawn for general corporate purposes The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, the including working capital.
This facility matures in June WHSmith Pension Trust, has assets valued at 855m 2011.
An appropriate committed facility is intended to as at 31 August 2010.
An Investment Committee of the be in place by June 2011.
Trustees to the scheme meets regularly to review the performance of the asset managers and the scheme as Credit risk a whole, together with the underlying investments.
The The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its Company is represented on this Committee.
The LDI trade and other receivables.
The Group has a low retail structure has a number of inflation and interest rate credit risk due to the transactions being principally of a hedges and equity option agreements, with collateral high volume, low value and short maturity.
The credit posted daily to or from the scheme to the relevant risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments counterparty.
The risk of failure of counterparties, and is considered to be low, as the Board-approved Group of the investment manager, is monitored regularly by Treasury Policy limits the value that can be placed with the Committee, as such failure could expose the each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of scheme to loss.
The scheme is also subject to changes loss.
These limits are based on a combination of in longevity.
The Trustees have the right to determine short-term credit ratings of P-1 A-1 and long-term the level of contributions and following the 2009 ratings of A1 A or better.
revaluation which showed an actuarial deficit of 113m, the Company has agreed with the Trustees a Capital risk deficit funding schedule of 11m per annum subject The Groups objectives when managing capital defined to indexation.
Further details can be found in Note 5 as net debt plus equity are to safeguard the Groups of the accounts.
ability to continue as a going concern in order to WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 14 emPLoyeeS We operate our CR programme through four key areas: The Group employs approximately 17,000 people, Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
primarily in the UK, and it is proud of its long Our CR strategy is reviewed by the Board on an annual history of being regarded as a responsible and basis, and the Board is responsible for approving our respected employer.
targets for the coming year.
The following section provides an introduction to our CR work during the year.
equal opportunities More detailed information, notably performance data The Board believes in creating throughout the Company and future targets, is available in our full CR Report, a culture that is free from discrimination and harassment available at www.
and will not permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Company gives full and fair consideration to marketplace applications for employment when these are received Customers from disabled people and employs disabled people Good customer service is a primary focus of our whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Like any retailer, we understand that become disabled when working for the Company, efforts customer satisfaction is a key driver of business are made to continue their employment and retraining performance.
To ensure we continue to meet our is provided, if necessary.
customers expectations we regularly assess the service we offer by conducting reviews.
The results training and development of our twice-yearly Customer Satisfaction Monitor We recognise the importance of training and suggest that customer satisfaction has remained development to support employee satisfaction and consistently high over the past three years, with the promote a knowledgeable workforce.
Our programmes friendliness and helpfulness of staff ranking especially enable our staff to grow with the Company and develop high.
These surveys ensure we focus on the key their careers.
Succession planning is emphasised elements of service that are important to our across the Group and we continue to achieve high customers, including queue management and internal succession rates.
To promote this work, polite, efficient and accurate transactions.
a refreshed internal training and development We take seriously the responsibility for the products we programme for potential Store Managers and sell, and we are committed to listening to our customers Supervisors was launched in stores this year.
Our Marketing Code of Practice sets out the standards we follow in our promotional activity, employee engagement marketing and advertising.
In practice this ensures we Employee engagement is supported through clear sell products that are safe, fit for purpose, meet legal communication of the Groups performance and standards and are not described in a misleading manner, objectives.
This information is cascaded through team particularly when marketing to children.
briefings, large employee events, intranet sites and regular e-newsletters.
This approach and the Groups Suppliers open management style encourages employees to Ethical trading contribute to business development.
We are committed to good labour standards and respecting the environment in our supply chain.
Our employee share ownership Supplier Code of Conduct and Human Rights policy The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customsstates our expectations of our suppliers.
We operate approved Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme an active programme whereby we engage with suppliers Sharesave Scheme which provides employees with to encourage regular performance improvements.
the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company.
Approximately 1,084 employees participate in the scheme.
We support ethical trading through an in-house audit team located in our Far East Sourcing office.
They visit SoCiaL and enVironmentaL matterS each new factory to assess its performance and, where We continue to operate a robust corporate responsibility necessary, agree an action plan for improvement with CR programme that is closely aligned to the Group the factory.
We provide support as suppliers make strategy.
The management of social and environmental these improvements, and ensure that all direct source matters is embedded into day-to-day operations across suppliers and Asia-based suppliers of UK agents are the business.
This year we were delighted to retain audited every two years.
Business in the Communitys Platinum ranking in their annual CR Index.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 WH Smith PLC 15 direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW During the year we increased our supplier engagement our collaboration with suppliers and other companies programme.
We identified areas where factories to reduce the miles driven to transport our products.
needed support to improve, and in so doing, we We recognise that reducing the waste produced by strengthened our Occupational Health and Safety our operations is another important element of our programme and now offer engagement to promote environmental responsibility.
Our waste reduction worker representation in factories.
Our buying teams programme focuses on increasing the level of recycling have also taken on more active roles in our ethical at our stores and distribution centres, as well as trading programme.
reducing the packaging waste from our products.
Over WHSmith is a member of the Ethical Trading the year we made good improvements in both of these Initiative ETI.
We also continue to encourage customers to refuse or reuse carrier bags.
Forest sourcing It is our continuing objective that all virgin i. e. Health and safety non-recycled material used in our own-brand products We are committed to maintaining high standards of is from known, legal, well-managed and credibly health and safety.
The management team, supported certified forests.
This year, we increased the volume by professional safety advisers, monitors key safety of material from recycled and certified forests to 69 per performance indicators and an annual report detailing cent, up from 61 per cent in 2009.
We will continue to trends, performance and recommendations is improve our forest sourcing, but recognise that further presented to the Board.
The business also has a improvements will be challenging.
This year we Health and Safety Committee that is comprised of are setting a three-year target for forest sourcing, representatives and professional health and safety with an emphasis on encouraging our smaller advisers.
This year we completed a long-term target suppliers to improve their performance.
to reduce overall reportable accidents by ten per cent between 2004 and 2010.
Maintaining this trend is an Payment policy for suppliers area of ongoing focus in the coming year.
The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, which complies with the CBI Code of Practice for Community Buyers, is to agree the terms of payment in advance in As a leading bookseller and stationer we focus our line with normal trade practice and, provided a supplier community investment on supporting education and performs in accordance with the agreement, to abide life-long learning.
Over the year we maintained our by such terms.
Copies of the CBI code may be obtained commitment to invest one per cent of pre-tax profits from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, into local communities, culminating in 1.1m in London WC1A 1DU.
The Companys trade creditors donations 2009: 827,900.
A significant portion of our figure as at the balance sheet date was equivalent to donations consist of cash donations and gifts in kind.
51 days 2009: 52 days based on average daily amounts These donations totalled 184,600 2009: 136,500, and invoiced by suppliers during the year.
were made to local schools and registered charities including the Woodland Trust and the National Literacy environment Trust.
Over the year, donations made to charities through We recognise that good environmental management the sale of products totalled 164,700 2009: 254,000, also makes good business sense.
We are committed including Children in Need, Everyman Cancer, Wellchild, to reducing the environmental impact of our business, Multiple Sclerosis Trust, Red Cross, Barnardos, Scope and measure our performance each year.
Lastly, we donated significant commercial support to our biggest charity partners, including World Energy efficiency remains a focus for us and, this year, Book Day and the Woodland Trust, these donations we continued to reduce energy consumption through totalled 454,500 2009: 106,600. a targeted programme working with our store teams, as well as reviewing store equipment and design.
The full extent of our community investment activity, We reduced our energy consumption in our High measured according to the London Benchmarking Street estate by 12 per cent per square foot.
We also Group model, is outlined in the Groups CR Report.
embarked on a programme to work with our largest The WHSmith Group Charitable Trust, an independent landlords in support of the Carbon Reduction registered charity, actively supports employees who Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
are involved with charitable organisations in their local As part of our carbon management programme, communities.
In addition, we recognise our stores we measure the CO emissions associated with the involvement in local communities.
In support of this 2 transport of packages moved from distribution centres aim, we refreshed our community programme to offer to our stores.
In line with these efforts, we increased two new initiatives: one that enabled stores in High WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 16 Walker Boyd was appointed as a non-executive Street to make a donation to their local schools and a second initiative enabling stores in Travel to donate director on 1 February 2010 and became Chairman on 1 September 2010.
Walker Boyd, on appointment books to hospitals.
as Chairman, met the independence criteria set out In support of our literacy objectives, the Group works in the Combined Code.
with the WHSmith Group Charitable Trust and the National Literacy Trust.
This year we embarked on a Robert Walker, Chairman, retired from the Board new three-year initiative whereby we are supporting on 31 August 2010. parents who want to improve their literacy skills so that they can better support their childrens education Luke Mayhew retired from the Board on 31 August 2010. at home.
We piloted the programme earlier this year, and began our nationwide roll-out in September 2010.
Henry Staunton was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 September 2010.
We also continue to raise funds for charities and good causes through the promotion and sale of tailored All of the non-executive directors who served during products in our stores, such as charity Christmas cards and stationery items.
the year and up to the date of this report are considered by the Board to be independent.
John Political donations Barton has served on the Board for 11 years.
The Chairman conducted a thorough review with John It is the Companys policy not to make political donations and no political donations or EU political Barton to assess his independence and contribution to the Board and confirmed that he continues to be expenditure were made in the year 2009: nil.
an effective non-executive director who demonstrates commitment to the role and remains independent in CorPorate goVernanCe, agm and otHer matterS Corporate governance character and judgement.
The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance.
The The Board met eight times during the year.
The Board manages the Company through a formal schedule of principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange with accounting matters reserved for its decision.
These include overall management of the Company: approval of strategic plans periods beginning before 29 June 2010 are contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted including acquisitions and disposals: approval of the Companys commercial strategy and operating and capital by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 and available publicly from www.
co. uk the Combined expenditure budgets: approval of the financial statements, material agreements and non-recurring projects: treasury Code.
The rules applying to accounting periods beginning on or after this date are contained in the new policy: control, audit and risk management: remuneration: and corporate responsibility.
It also UK Corporate Governance Code and available publicly from the same website.
The Board confirms that the delegates specific responsibilities to the Board Committees detailed below, the role and responsibilities Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code as described in this report and complied with of each Committee being set out in formal terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
its provisions throughout the financial year ended 31 August 2010.
This report also includes the All directors have access to the advice and services information that is required by DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys corporate governance statement.
of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the the board furtherance of their duties.
The Board receives On 14 October 2010, the Board comprised the appropriate and timely information, Board and Chairman, two executive directors and four Committee papers normally being sent out several independent non-executive directors.
Short biographies days before meetings take place.
All newly appointed of each of the directors, which illustrate their range of directors receive induction training on joining the Board experience, are set out on page 26.
There is a clear which is tailored to meet the needs of the individual, division of responsibility at the head of the Company: including store visits and meetings with employees Walker Boyd Chairman being responsible for running across the businesses and external advisers.
The need the Board and Kate Swann Group Chief Executive for director training is regularly assessed by the Board.
being responsible for implementing strategy.
John Barton has been nominated by the Board as the Senior The performance of the Board and its Committees is Independent Director.
The Board structure ensures a fundamental component of the Companys success.
that no individual or group dominates the decisionThe Board carried out a formal evaluation in September making process.
The evaluation was co-ordinated and directed by Annual Report and Accounts 2010 WH Smith PLC 17 direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW the Chairman with the support of the Company reports from the Internal Audit Director on the results Secretary.
A questionnaire covering the main areas of internal audit reviews, significant findings, of assessment was prepared by the Chairman and management action plans and timeliness of resolution: the Company Secretary and formed the basis of reviewing reports on the Companys risk management in-depth interviews with each director.
The results process: reviewing management of fraud risk and of the assessment were considered by the Board, incidents of fraud: reviewing the Companys Business and confirmed the strength of the strategic and Continuity Plans: and reviewing the effectiveness of entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, a sound the Companys whistleblowing process.
governance framework and practices compliant with The Committees terms of reference are available the Combined Code.
In addition, an action plan was on the Companys website.
agreed to address the themes from this years exercise.
The Group Chief Executive reviews the performance of Nominations Committee the Group Finance Director and other senior executives.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Walker The Chairman reviews the performance of the Group Boyd and its other members are John Barton, Mike Chief Executive and each non-executive director.
During Ellis, Drummond Hall, Henry Staunton and Kate the year, the Chairman had regular meetings with the Swann.
The Committees principal responsibility is non-executive directors, without the executive directors to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place present, to discuss Board issues and how to build the for the nomination, selection and succession of best possible team.
The Senior Independent Director directors and senior executives.
met with the non-executive directors in the absence of The Committee met seven times during the year the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans performance.
and its activities included a review of the Companys Under the Companys Articles of Association, all succession plans and discussion in respect of the directors are required to retire and submit themselves ongoing structure and capability of the Board.
In for re-election every three years.
However, in accordance with the Companys succession plan, accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Walker Boyd was appointed a non-executive director Code, the Board has agreed that all directors will on 1 February 2010 and became Chairman on stand for election or re-election at the AGM to be held 1 September 2010 following the retirement of Robert on 26 January 2011.
Biographies of all the directors Walker on 31 August 2010.
In addition, Luke Mayhew are set out in the Companys Annual Report and are retired from the Board on 31 August 2010 and was also available for viewing on the Companys website replaced by Henry Staunton on 1 September 2010. www.
The appointments of Walker Boyd and Henry Staunton were made following searches conducted by external board Committees consultants and recommendations were made to the Audit Committee Committee.
The Board, prior to appointing Walker Boyd The Audit Committee is chaired by Mike Ellis, who has as Chairman, reviewed his other commitments.
recent and relevant financial experience, and its other members are John Barton, Drummond Hall and Henry The Committees terms of reference are available on Staunton, all of whom are independent non-executive the Companys website.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Group Finance Director, Remuneration Committee the Internal Audit Director and representatives of The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Drummond the external auditors regularly attend meetings.
Hall and its other members are John Barton, Walker The Committee has regular private meetings with Boyd, Mike Ellis and Henry Staunton.
At the invitation the external and internal auditors during the year.
of the Committee, the Group Chief Executive and The Committees principal responsibilities cover representatives of Hewitt New Bridge Street, its external internal control and risk management, internal audit, independent adviser, attend meetings.
The Committee external audit including auditor independence and met six times during the year.
The Committees principal financial reporting.
responsibility is to determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration of executive directors and the The Committee met four times during the year and Chairman.
The Committee monitors the levels and its activities included: reviewing the preliminary and structure of remuneration for senior management and interim announcements, Annual Report and Financial seeks to ensure that they are designed to attract, retain Statements: considering reports from the external and motivate senior management to run the Company auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental successfully.
The remuneration of the non-executive issues requiring its attention: approval of audit plans directors is determined by the Chairman and the for the external and internal auditors: considering executive directors.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 18 The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 27 risk management and internal Controls to 36 as required by Section 420 Companies Act 2006 The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys and including the relevant information referred to system of internal control and for reviewing its in the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. implement the Boards policies on risk and control and The Committees terms of reference are available provide assurance on compliance with these policies.
Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the Attendance at Board Committee meetings business and to deal with areas of improvement which The following table shows the number of Board come to the attention of management and the Board.
and Committee meetings held during the year Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather ended 31 August 2010 and the attendance record than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business of individual directors.
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Committee meetings Board meetings Audit Nominations Remuneration i Risk No.
of meetings 8 4 7 6 The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process Robert Walker 8 - 7 6 for identifying, evaluating and managing significant Kate Swann 8 - 7 - risks faced by the Company including those risks Robert Moorhead 8 - - - relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
John Barton 8 3 7 6 This process was in place throughout the year under Walker Boyd 4 2 4 4 review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Mike Ellis 8 4 7 6 Report and meets the requirements of the guidance Drummond Hall 8 3 7 6 entitled Internal Control Revised Guidance for Luke Mayhew 8 3 7 6 Directors on the Combined Code produced by the Financial Reporting Council the Guidance.
1 John Barton, Drummond Hall and Luke Mayhew did not attend The Audit Committee has kept under review the the Audit Committee meeting in April 2010 as a result of the travel disruption caused by the volcanic ash cloud effectiveness of the system of internal control 2 Walker Boyd was appointed as a director of the Company and has reported regularly to the Board.
on 1 February 2010 and became Chairman of the Company on 1 September 2010 The key features of the risk management process 3 Luke Mayhew resigned as a director of the Company are as follows: on 31 August 2010 4 Robert Walker resigned as a director of the Company the business conducts an annual risk assessment on 31 August 2010 based on identified business objectives which are 5 Henry Staunton was appointed as a director of the reviewed and agreed by the Retail Executive Company on 1 September 2010 Committee.
Risks are categorised into strategic, 6 Robert Walker and Robert Moorhead were invited and attended four meetings of the Audit Committee operational, financial and compliance and are 7 Kate Swann was invited and attended six meetings evaluated in respect of their potential impact and of the Remuneration Committee likelihood.
These risk assessments are updated and reviewed quarterly by the Group and business risk The Board has met twice since 31 August 2010 and committees and are reported to the Retail Executive all the directors in office attended the meetings.
Committee and the Audit Committee: In addition, the Remuneration Committee has met twice and the Audit Committee has met once since a Company risk assessment is also undertaken by 31 August 2010.
These meetings were attended by the Internal Audit function, which considers all areas all Committee members.
of potential risk across all systems, functions and key business processes.
This risk assessment, together with the business risk assessment, forms the basis for determining the internal audit plan.
Audit reports in relation to areas reviewed are discussed and agreed with the business risk committees and the Audit Committee: Annual Report and Accounts 2010 WH Smith PLC 19 direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW the internal audit team meets annually with senior executive management has defined the financial executives in order to complete a formal certification controls and procedures with which each business is of the effectiveness of internal controls.
Key controls over major business reports are submitted to the business risk risks include reviews against performance indicators committees.
Certificates are also provided by the risk and exception reporting, and the business is required committees to the Audit Committee, to assist the to prepare monthly management accounts: and Board in conducting its annual review of internal routine reports are prepared to cover treasury controls in compliance with the Guidance.
activities and risks, for review by senior executives, and annual reports are prepared for the Board ii Internal controls and Audit Committee covering treasury policies, a Financial controls insurance and pensions.
The Company has an established framework of internal financial control, the effectiveness of which is regularly b Non-financial controls reviewed by the executive management and the Board.
The Company has established a wide range of The key elements of this are as follows: non-financial controls covering areas such as health the Board is responsible for overall Company strategy, and safety, the environment, ethical trading, for approving revenue and capital budgets and plans, employment and business continuity, the effectiveness for approving major acquisitions and disposals and of which are regularly reviewed by the executive for determining the financial structure of the management and the Board.
The key elements Company, including treasury and dividend policy.
are as follows: Monthly results, variances from plan and forecasts a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by the are reported to the Board: Board, including objectives and targets to address the the Audit Committee assists the Board in the impact that our activities have on the environment, discharge of its duties regarding the Companys workplace, marketplace and community: financial statements, accounting policies and the clear accountability for corporate responsibility issues maintenance of proper internal business, operational has been defined at Board and operational level: and financial controls.
The Committee provides a direct link between the Board and the external annual updates are submitted to the Board on each auditors through regular meetings: aspect of corporate responsibility: the Internal Audit function advises and assists the Board is committed to maintaining high standards business management to establish and maintain of health and safety in all its business activities.
adequate financial controls and reports to the Audit These standards are set out in the Companys Health Committee on the effectiveness of those controls: and Safety Policy which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Risk Management team works with the the Board has established an organisational structure business to assess health and safety risks and with clearly defined lines of responsibility and introduce systems to mitigate them.
All notified approval controls identifying transactions requiring accidents are investigated and targets are set to approval by the Board or by the Approvals Committee.
reduce the level of incidence: The Group Finance Director is responsible for the functional leadership and development of the the Board has approved an Environmental Policy Companys finance activities: and sets environmental objectives and specific targets which are reviewed annually: there is a comprehensive system for budgeting and planning and for monitoring and reporting the Board is committed to ensuring reasonable the performance of the Companys business to standards among its suppliers and has approved the directors.
Monthly results are reported against an Ethical Trading Code of Conduct setting out the budget and prior year, and forecasts for the current standards it expects its suppliers to adopt.
This policy financial year are regularly revised in the light of covers health and safety, child labour, working hours, actual performance.
These results and forecasts discrimination and the environment: cover profits, cash flows, capital expenditure and the Company is committed to ensuring that its balance sheets: personnel meet good standards of integrity and the Company has established a uniform system competence.
The Companys systems cover the of investment appraisal: recruitment, training and development of personnel, an appropriate division of responsibilities and the communication of Company policies and procedures throughout the organisation: and WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 20 Business Recovery Plans exist to enable the business recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for to continue in the event of a disaster with minimum dialogue with private shareholders.
All directors disruption to customers.
normally attend the AGM and are available to answer any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
auditor independence The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders at least The Board is satisfied that Deloitte LLP has adequate 20 working days before the meeting.
Those policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor shareholders who have elected to receive electronic objectivity and independence is maintained.
The communications receive notice of the availability of the external auditors report to the Audit Committee annual report on the Companys website.
The deadline annually on their independence from the Company.
for appointing a proxy is 48 hours before the time fixed Periodic rotation of key audit partners is also required.
for the meeting although, in calculating this period, The Audit Committee considers whether the audit no account is taken of non-working days.
should go out to tender but has taken the view that partner rotation at both the Group and operating Shareholders vote on each resolution on a show of business level has been sufficient to maintain the hands, unless a poll is validly called, and after each necessary independence.
There are no contractual such vote the number of proxy votes received for, restrictions on the Audit Committee as to the choice against and withheld is announced.
The proxy figures of external auditors.
are made available in writing at the end of the meeting, announced to the London Stock Exchange and The Board has also adopted a formal policy on the published on the Companys website.
Companys relationship with its auditor in respect of non-audit work.
The auditors may only provide such The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views services if such advice does not conflict with their and concerns of major shareholders.
The Group Chief statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The Executive and Group Finance Director update the Board Audit Committee Chairmans pre-approval is required following meetings with major shareholders and before the Company uses non-audit services that analysts briefings are circulated to the Board.
When exceed financial limits set out in the policy.
The fees requested to do so, the Chairman and non-executive paid to the Auditors in respect of non-audit services directors attend meetings with major shareholders.
are shown in Note 3 to the Accounts.
Compliance with the Combined Code In line with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee Throughout the year ended 31 August 2010 the undertakes a thorough assessment of the quality, Company has been in compliance with the provisions effectiveness, value and independence of the audit of the Combined Code.
provided by Deloitte LLP on an annual basis, seeking the views and feedback of the Board, together with dividends those of Group and divisional management.
Following The directors recommend the payment of a final the most recent review, the Audit Committee has dividend for the year of 13.3p per ordinary share on determined to recommend to the Board the 3 February 2011 to members on the Register at the reappointment of Deloitte LLP at the Annual General close of business on 7 January 2011.
This final dividend and the interim dividend of 6.1p per relations with shareholders ordinary share paid on 10 June 2010 makes a total The Boards primary role is to promote the success dividend of 19.4p per ordinary share for the year ended of the Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Company, together with The Company recognises the importance of details of shares issued during the year, are shown in communicating with its shareholders to ensure that Note 26 to the Accounts.
its strategy and performance are understood.
This is achieved principally through the annual report and The issued share capital of the Company as at accounts and the AGM.
In addition, a range of corporate 31 August 2010 was 150,501,750 ordinary shares of 6 information, including all Company announcements 22 p each.
These shares are listed on the London 67 and presentations, is available to investors on the Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated or Companys website, www.
Formal presentations are made to institutional The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders following the announcement of the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the Companys full year and interim results.
The Board transfer of securities and voting rights.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 WH Smith PLC 21 direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary issue of new ordinary shares shares in the Company other than certain restrictions During the financial year ended 31 August 2010, imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading 510,509 ordinary shares of the Company were issued laws and market requirements relating to close periods under the Sharesave Scheme at prices between and requirements of the Listing Rules whereby directors 295.20p and 387.00p.
The Articles of Association of the and certain employees of the Company require Board Company provide that the Board may, subject to the approval to deal in the Companys securities.
prior approval of the members of the Company, be granted authority to exercise all the powers of the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their for or convert any security into shares, including new holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of ordinary shares.
Association, a copy of which can be obtained from the Companys website, www.
The Significant agreements change of control holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the A change of control of the Company following a Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak takeover bid may cause a number of agreements at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies to which the Company or its trading subsidiaries, and to exercise voting rights, and to receive a dividend WH Smith High Street Limited and WH Smith Travel subject to the deduction of any sums due from the Limited, is party, such as commercial trading contracts, holder of ordinary shares to the Company on account banking arrangements, property lease, licence and of calls or otherwise.
Changes to the Companys concession agreements to take effect, alter or terminate.
Articles of Association must be approved by special In addition, the directors service agreements and resolution of the Company.
employee share plans would be similarly affected The Trustee of the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust on a change of control, including, in the case of the holds ordinary shares in the Company on behalf of the directors, in relation to compensation for loss of office.
beneficiaries of the Trust, who are the employees and Details of the change of control clause contained in former employees of the Group.
If any offer is made to the service contracts of the executive directors can the holders of ordinary shares to acquire their shares, be found in the Remuneration Report on page 31. the Trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time directors conflicts subject to subsisting options, but will have regard to The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board the interests of the optionholders and can consult them to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations to obtain their views on the offer, and subject to the where a director has an interest that conflicts, or may foregoing, the Trustee will take the action with respect possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company to the offer it thinks fair.
The Trustee has agreed not to Situational Conflicts.
The Board has a formal exercise its rights to accept any offer in respect of the system in place for directors to declare Situational restricted shares that it holds for participants under Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those the WH Smith 2008 Management Investment Plan.
directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Purchase of own shares Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors must At the 2010 AGM, authority was given for the Company act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be to purchase, in the market, up to 23,365,125 ordinary most likely to promote the success of the Company, 6 shares of 22 p each.
The Company used this 67 and they may impose limits or conditions when giving authority to purchase and subsequently cancel the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is 6,866,759 of its own shares during the financial year, appropriate.
Any Situational Conflicts considered by representing 4.56 per cent of the called-up share the Board, and any authorisations given, are recorded capital, at an average price of 510p.
The aggregate in the Board minutes and in a register of conflicts amount of consideration paid by the Company for the which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
This authority is renewable annually and approval will be sought from shareholders Companys shareholders at the AGM in 2011 to renew the authority for a further The Company has been notified in accordance with year, given that the Company proposes to return up to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial 50m of cash to shareholders via a rolling share Services Authority that, as at the date of this report, buyback programme.
the following shareholders own more than three per cent of the issued share capital of the Company: WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 22 % as at date Nature of Holder Number of notification Holding Standard Life Investments Limited 15,412,795 9.86 Direct Indirect Artemis Investment Management Limited 14,689,214 9.69 Direct Lloyds Banking Group plc 12,286,656 8.17 Direct Indirect Legal & General Group Plc 9,099,203 6.04 Direct Legal & General Group Plc Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 8,694,007 5.54 Direct Indirect Jupiter Asset Management Limited 7,787,536 4.96 Indirect BlackRock Inc 7,383,507 4.89 Indirect AXA S. A.
7,554,312 4.82 Direct Indirect JP Morgan Chase & Co. 7,428,306 4.74 Indirect Barclays Global Investors 4,809,497 3.05 Indirect Except for the above, the Company is not aware of any to the Board and confirmed that he continues to be ordinary shareholders with interests of three per cent an effective independent non-executive director and or more in the issued share capital of the Company.
continues to add value and continuity given the recent changes to the Board.
The Board believes that John board of directors Barton is an effective independent non-executive The names of the directors as at the date of this report, director notwithstanding the fact that he will have together with biographical details, are set out on page served on the Board for 11 years since the date 26.
All the directors served throughout the period he was first appointed to the Board by the time of the except as set out below: AGM on 26 January 2011.
John Barton has extensive financial and retail experience which the Board Walker Boyd was appointed as a non-executive director continues to benefit from in managing the Company.
on 1 February 2010 and became Chairman on 1 September 2010.
The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the Company, along with details of Robert Walker retired from the Board on 31 August 2010. directors share options and awards, are contained in the Luke Mayhew retired from the Board on 31 August 2010 Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 36. and was replaced by Henry Staunton with effect from At no time during the year did any of the directors have 1 September 2010. a material interest in any significant contract with the The Companys Articles of Association give a power Company or any of its subsidiaries.
to the Board to appoint directors and, where notice The Company maintains directors and officers liability is given and signed by all the other directors, remove insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal a director from office.
The Companys Articles of action brought against its directors.
The Company has Association themselves may be amended by special also provided an indemnity for its directors, which is resolution of the shareholders.
a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the The Companys Articles of Association require that purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. directors offer themselves for re-election every three years and that new directors appointed by the Board offer financial risk management themselves for election at the next AGM following their The financial risk management and policies of the appointment.
However, in accordance with the new UK Group are disclosed in Note 25 of the Accounts.
Corporate Governance Code, the Board has agreed that all directors will stand for election or re-election at the AGM.
going concern The Groups business activities together with the John Barton, who was appointed to the Board as a factors that are likely to affect its future developments, non-executive director in November 1999 and has performance and position are set out in this Directors served on the Board for 11 years, will retire at Report and Business Review.
This Directors Report the AGM and, in common with all the directors, and Business Review also describes the Groups offers himself for re-election.
John Barton has been financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities, appointed for a fixed term until the Companys AGM further information on which is detailed in Notes 22 to in 2011 and does not have a contract of service.
In addition, Note 25 of the Accounts Chairman conducted a thorough review with John includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes Barton to assess his independence and contribution for managing its capital: its financial risk management Annual Report and Accounts 2010 WH Smith PLC 23
