4 Business review We continued to broaden our customer appeal BuSIneSS HIGHlIGHtS 2009 10 over the year by maintaining our focus on fresh Continuing strategic success Food specialist for everyone gains food and value and providing great customer further recognition service through a wide range of stores from Retail Week Retailer of the Year for second consecutive year.
With the building blocks now in place we have a strong platform Store estate development 13% increase in selling space since 2007 to take Morrisons to a nationwide company.
exceeding our target Net 43 new stores opened in the year Smaller store format expected to help us in our target to add a further 1.5m Strategy Store estate development square feet of new selling space over Morrisons has made considerable progress In 2007, we set out an objective to add the next three years in its strategy to position the business as an additional 1m square feet of new selling the UKs food specialist for everyone.
space to our estate over the three years to Shareholder returns January 2010.
We are pleased to have exceeded In the past four years total shareholder Our strategy will enable the business to continue that target by 0.4m square feet, through a return has averaged 16% p. a. compared sustainable, long term growth.
It builds on our combination of store extensions and store to FTSE 100 at 3% and European grocery strengths, and is in tune with our customers openings including 34 stores we acquired retail sector at 9% needs for excellent value and their increasing from the Co-operative Group in 2009. focus on the provenance, quality and freshness of the food they buy.
In order to deliver our As the fourth largest grocery retailer in the UK, StRateGy strategy, we have previously outlined the building we see significant opportunities to expand our blocks that need to be put in place, and our plans store estate further.
We offer a real difference Morrisons has made considerable progress to do this were incorporated in the Optimisation in grocery retailing that is highly attractive to in its strategy to position the business as Plan that has now completed.
These include a wide range of consumers as evidenced by the UKs food specialist for everyone.
freshening our stores and the first phases of the increasing number of customers who improving and developing the infrastructure are shopping in our stores and enjoying the Food specialist of the business in relation to IT operating Morrisons experience.
However, there are We really understand food... systems, manufacturing and distribution.
still many parts of the country where we are Our progress towards these goals is set out under-represented.
We estimate that there are w e know where it comes from: in the Operating review on page 16. some seven million households in the UK not w e pack it and make it in our factories: located within a convenient 15 minute drive w e make it in our stores: and We will continue to invest in our strategy time from a Morrisons store a higher target of being the food specialist for everyone.
customer base than any of our three larger w e employ craft skills in every store.
Colleagues in the business now have access competitors.
A key part of our strategy, therefore, to the Morrisons Academy, enabling them to is to grow the number of Morrisons stores.
For everyone be trained further in food-related skills.
We will Great food which is also great value invest in additional manufacturing capabilities Great food which is for every day in order to strengthen this point of difference not just special days with our competitors and we will continue to offer our customers new and innovative fresh food items of great quality produced in Market Street, fresh on the day.
New jobs created % 2 1 increase Our continued growth resulted in 10,000 new Underlying profit has increased jobs created over the period.
We welcomed to 767m from 636m last year.
2,300 colleagues formerly employed by the Co-operative Group or Somerfield.
As part of the conversion of these stores to the Morrisons format, all of these colleagues have undergone training to introduce our great customer service and fresh food offer.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review 2010 5 The early performance of the stores acquired Morrisons market share by region 2009 10 from the Co-operative Group last year has Our farmers mean confirmed that our offer works well in a wide a great deal range of store sizes giving us increased flexibility when finding sites.
We expect to add a further 1.5m square feet of selling space in the three years to January 2013.
We launched a Farm Programme focused on research to help improve the efficiency We believe that the delivery of our strategy and sustainability of British Farming.
of space expansion and the optimisation of Our research farm is a ground-breaking our business model has delivered strongly joint venture to establish a 700-acre farm improved profit margins whilst also on the Dumfries House Estate in East Scotland positioning the Group for long term growth.
Morrisons Farm at Dumfries 16.1% House will work in a new partnership with % 15.1 Shareholder investment and returns the Scottish Agricultural College, to become Delivery of our Optimisation Plan has ensured one of the leading centres of excellence for strong growth in sales, profits and dividends, whilst Lancashire applied farming research.
and North East we have also invested to generate future growth.
16.6% % In the four years since the launch of the 16.4 Optimisation Plan, annual dividend growth has averaged 30% p. a. and total shareholder return Yorkshire 16% p. a.
This return compares with equivalent 22.0% figures for the FTSE 100 and European Retail % 21.4 sector of 3% and 9% respectively.
East England The Group has a strong balance sheet and is Wales & West Central 11.7% securely financed, with competitive revolving 12.4% % 12.5% 11.3 % credit facilities available until 2012 and a 12.2 % 12.2 number of bonds which mature between London 2010 and 2018.
South & 6.7% South West % South East 6.5 % 15.3 % 6.1% underlying basic earnings per share 14.1 % 6.1 Pence p 2010 20.5 Figures in brackets are from 2008 09 2009 16.7 Source: Kantar Worldpanel 2008 14.4 2007 8.3 Underlying basic earnings per share has increased 23%.
Strong investment % grade rating 53s hare price From January 2006 to January 2010, The Groups credit rating was upgraded Morrisons share price increased 53%, compared to a fall in the FTSE 100 of 10%.
by Moodys for the second consecutive year to A3, making us one of only three European retailers to hold this grade.
