4 Business review We continued to broaden our customer appeal over Business HigHligHts 2009 10 the year by maintaining our focus on fresh food and Continuing strategic success value and providing great customer service through a Food specialist for everyone gains further recognition wide range of stores from 10,000 to 40,000 square feet.
Retail Week Retailer of the Year for second consecutive year With the building blocks now in place we have a strong platform to take Morrisons to a nationwide company.
Store estate development 13% increase in selling space since 2007 exceeding our target Net 43 new stores opened in the year Our strategy will enable the business to continue The early performance of the stores acquired Smaller store format expected to help sustainable, long term growth.
It builds on our from the Co-operative Group last year has us in our target to add a further 1.5m strengths, and is in tune with our customers confirmed that our offer works well in a wide square feet of new selling space over needs for excellent value and their increasing range of store sizes, from 10,000 to 40,000 the next three years focus on the provenance, quality and freshness square feet, giving us increased flexibility when of the food they buy.
In order to deliver our finding sites.
We expect to add a further 1.5m Shareholder returns strategy, we have previously outlined the square feet of selling space in the three years In the past four years total shareholder building blocks that need to be put in place, to January 2013. return has averaged 16% p. a. compared and our plans to do this were incorporated in to FTSE 100 at 3% and European grocery the Optimisation Plan that has now completed.
We believe that the delivery of our strategy retail sector at 9% These include freshening our stores and the of space expansion and the optimisation of our first phases of improving and developing the business model has delivered strongly improved infrastructure of the business in relation to profit margins whilst also positioning the Group stRategy uPDate IT operating systems, manufacturing and for long term growth.
Our progress towards these goals Morrisons has made considerable progress is set out in the Operating review on page 21. shareholder investment and returns in its strategy to position the business as Delivery of our Optimisation Plan has ensured the UKs food specialist for everyone.
We will continue to invest in our strategy of being strong growth in sales, profits and dividends, the food specialist for everyone.
Colleagues whilst we have also invested to generate future Food specialist in the business now have access to the Morrisons growth.
In line with the policy we announced We really understand food... Academy, enabling them to be trained further in 2008, dividend per share has been increased we know where it comes from: in food-related skills.
We will invest in additional by 41% to give a total for the full year of 8.2p.
we pack it and make it in our factories: manufacturing capabilities in order to strengthen As a result, dividend cover has been reduced this point of difference with our competitors and to 2.5 times, the average for the European we make it in our stores: and we will continue to offer our customers new grocery retail sector.
we employ craft skills in every store.
and innovative fresh food items of great quality produced in Market Street, fresh on the day.
In the four years since the launch of the For everyone Optimisation Plan, annual dividend growth has store estate development averaged 30% p. a. and total shareholder return Great food which is also great value In 2007, we set out an objective to add an 16% p. a.
This return compares with equivalent Great food which is for every day additional 1m square feet of new selling space figures for the FTSE 100 and European Retail not just special days to our estate over the three years to January sector of 3% and 9% respectively.
We are pleased to have exceeded As a food specialist we differentiate that target by 0.4m square feet, through The Group has a strong balance sheet and is ourselves from our major competitors, a combination of store extensions and 57 securely financed, with competitive revolving all of whom have significant non-food net store openings including 34 stores we credit facilities available until 2012 and a number offers.
We are unique in having our own acquired from the Co-operative Group in 2009. of long dated bonds.
650m of the revolving manufacturing and packing facilities, and credit facility remained undrawn at the end of being farmers ourselves.
We also prepare As the fourth largest grocery retailer in the UK, the period.
more food and employ more specialist we see significant opportunities to expand our butchers, fishmongers and bakers in-store store estate further.
As the food specialist for We will continue to pursue a prudent approach than our competitors.
We can clearly everyone, we offer a real difference in grocery to financial management which is based on four demonstrate our deep understanding retailing that is highly attractive to a wide range key principles: of food and ensure that everyone who of consumers as evidenced by the increasing shops with us receives outstanding value, number of customers who are shopping in our we will maintain a strong investment grade freshness and service.
stores and enjoying the Morrisons experience.
balance sheet: However, there are still many parts of the country where we are under-represented.
operational control of our stores is fundamental We estimate that there are some seven million to us: households in the UK not located within a convenient 15 minute drive time from we are a prudent organisation and we structure a Morrisons store a higher target customer our finances accordingly: and base than any of our three larger competitors.
A key part of our strategy, therefore, is to our defined benefit pension schemes assets grow the number of Morrisons stores.
and liabilities are effectively part of our balance sheet, and will be managed as such.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010
