Business review: Earls Court & Olympia 32 Business review Earls Court & Olympia Earls Court & Olympia EC&O comprises three EC&O international exhibition venues, two at Earls Court Value 235m Earls Court 1 and Earls Court 2 and one at Olympia.
Earls Court continues to be a leading exhibition and Seagrave events venue for London, and in the longer term could Road Value become the gateway to a site designated in the Mayor 104m of Londons draft Replacement London Plan as The 39% Earls Court & West Kensington Opportunity Area ECOA.
The adjacent Empress State Building is also Empress 50 per cent owned by the Group.
State Value 103m The Group is seeking to develop its exhibitions which includes set-up and take-down time as well business by investing in the enhancement of the as the event itself.
A small proportion of the overall 9% facilities at Olympia, and then maximising its revenues approximately 10 per cent on average over utilisation by transitioning shows currently held the past three years is earned during the show itself, at Earls Court.
The land management strategy at for example from car parking, catering concessions EBITDA Earls Court and Seagrave Road aims to unlock value and eForce IT services.
through securing planning consent for a residential- 18.9m led, mixed-use scheme.
A highlight of the Earls Court calendar is the Ideal Home Show, which this year was revitalised under -11.3% Capco is considering its options for the site new ownership and included the Earls Court 1 should planning consent be granted.
A number of faade going green, covered in recyclable AstroTurf expressions of interest relating to the full site as for a month.
The show attracted more than Events well as discrete parts have been received to work 250,000 visitors.
In addition, the British Military 253 in partnership with Capco, either with funding or Tournament returned in December, a successful development-based partners.
Capcos options in this charity fundraiser for the Army Benevolent Fund regard will be reviewed whilst the planning process which includes the famous and perilous Gun Run.
is ongoing to determine how best to realise value for Earls Court hosted over 90 events in 2010, achieving Olympia its shareholders.
However the focus is currently on a total utilisation of 40 per cent.
investment the planning process, in particular the submission of planning applications by June 2011.
Olympia currently hosts more than 160 shows a year.
21m Notable additions to the calendar in 2010 were The EC&O Venues Toy Fair and the redesigned London International EC&O Venues is the Groups conference, exhibition Fine Art & Antiques show.
Successful new launches and events business currently based at both Earls such as Cruise, Baby and Datacentre, together with Court and Olympia.
The business also operates the popular concerts such as Primal Scream, all helped Brewery, a conference and events venue in the City increase utilisation rates to more than 41 per cent, of London.
Together they represent a combined with the ground oor utilisation of the Olympia total of 1.7 million square feet of conference, events Grand Hall reaching 60 per cent.
and banqueting space in central London.
EC&O Venues business is seasonal, with 70 per EC&O Venues earns the majority of its revenues cent of 2010 EBITDA earned in the first half of the from renting space to exhibition and conference year.
Despite its resilience, it was impacted by the calculated on a like-for-like basis organisers.
Lettings are for six days on average, economic downturn which affected the industry Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 33 Exhibitions in West London Olympias Grand Hall designed by Henry Coe, What is now called Earls Court 1 first opened in which celebrates its 125th anniversary in 2011, was 1937 and made its name early on hosting major originally built in the19th century as an arena for shows such as the Chocolate and Confectionery performances, shows and exhibitions.
Earls Court 2 opened in 1991 adjoining successes here were the Hippodrome Circus, Charles and linked to Earls Court 1, adding 183,000 square Crufts Exhibition of Sporting Dogs and Barnums feet of column-free space to the site.
Earls Court has Greatest Show on Earth direct from New York.
been designated a 2012 Summer Olympics venue Over the years some of the most important and will be hosting the volleyball competitions.
exhibitions in the calendar became regulars including the Ideal Home Show.
Further space was The two venues were brought under the same added in the 1920s with the Empire Hall now umbrella in 1973 and became the merged EC&O Olympia Two.
In 1958, the new age came to Venues business a year later.
Capco acquired 50 per Olympia with the first ever British Electronic cent in 2007 and then the remaining 50 per cent in Computer Exhibition.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
