02 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Business review our Strategy Our strategy is to add value to all land and property assets we hold by marshalling an extensive bank of development opportunities and by delivering development schemes across all sectors of the property market.
THe HoPPer STaGe 1 We now have a land bank of Our hopper of future development opportunities comprises over 5,700 5,736 developable acres of developable acres and 16 Town Centre projects.
We acquire these which 375 acres were acquired opportunities in their rawest state, ensuring that we can add maximum in 2010 value as we work through the planning process towards delivery and ultimately disposal.
We aim to replace the land used every year to enable the Companys long-term growth.
MarSHaLLiNG STaGe 2 Our development and construction teams, supplemented with skilled We continued to secure many important planning consents external professionals, have a proven track record of marshalling a in 2010, including over 1,400 wide range of projects through the planning process.
We have particular residential units and over 1 expertise in site assembly, remediation, master planning and public million sq.
space DeLivery STaGe 3 With planning permissions secured, schemes are built-out or the land We achieved over 50 disposals sold in response to market conditions.
Assets are disposed of once no in the year, realising over 125m with a profit of 21.9m further significant value can be added and the capital is then recycled into new schemes, enabling the entire process to begin again.
co. uk 03 We also recycle the capital raised from the disposal of those assets to which we can no longer add value into the acquisition of new opportunities.
This is all underpinned by 525m of income producing property assets and managed estates.
BP Portfolio openshawe Branston South Wales East Manchester East Staffordshire Long Marston estate South ockendon raF Uxbridge Warwickshire Essex Greater London Connahs Quay Warwickshire College edmonton Green Flintshire Warwickshire London 18573 16 02 2011 PROOF 7
