Unite 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review Our market Overview Since the early 1990s UNITE and the student accommodation sector as a whole have benefited from rapid growth in student numbers, driven by a combination of demographics, Government policy and international student demand.
This, coupled with the relative lack of capital available to universities to meet the housing needs created by this surge in demand, resulted in a structural demand supply imbalance in almost every university town or city.
Today this structural shortage of accommodation remains evident in many major university towns and cities and whilst UNITE does not expect the growth in student numbers to be significant over the next ten years due to a variety of factors explained below, this structural shortage and the latent demand for UK Higher Over the past three years as Education evidenced by the excess of undergraduate applications over many as 160,000 applicants available places means that demand for well managed, well located student accommodation will remain strong.
each year have been unable to secure a place meaning Student numbers grew once again in 2010, largely as a result of the Governments thatnot only is there not decision to fund an additional 10,000 undergraduate places.
Looking forward the Group expects underlying demand for UK Higher Education to remain strong, but enough accommodation resultant growth in student numbers to be limited by a combination of funding forthose who get a place, constraints, university capacity and immigration controls.
UNITE is forecasting thereare not enough places student numbers to remain flat over the next five years and therefore expects forthose that want them.
growth opportunities to be strongest in those towns and cities where the current structural shortage of accommodation remains most significant.
This is the principal reason for the Groups continued focus in London.
UNITE considers the flat growth assumption to be prudent and robust but it is also 160,000 important to acknowledge the extent of unsatisfied demand for UK university places.
Over the past three years as many as 160,000 applicants each year have applicants fail to get been unable to secure a place meaning that not only is there not enough auniversityplace accommodation for those who get a place, there are not enough places for those that want them.
Demand characteristics The Groups research and understanding of market dynamics suggests that the student demographic will continue to evolve, with more mature and part-time students applying for university places, and international student numbers remaining strong.
The increased debt burden on future students is likely to lead to changing patterns and behaviour, most obviously in terms of where students decide to study.
However, there are several factors which suggest student demand for UNITEs product will remain high, namely the continued growth in non-EU student numbers who are not affected by the funding changes and the Groups business model and market positioning, with properties located in strong university cities across the UK and a core customer base that is the least likely to be affected byincreased tuition fees.
John tonkiss Mark Allan Phil White Joe Lister Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer
