Overview Chief Executives statement 10 10 Balance sheet These elements enable us to have access to the best Having restored the Group to financial health, we intend to investment opportunities in the markets we choose to maintain a conservative balance sheet.
We do not intend to focus on.
The combination of excellent opportunities with have significant leverage at the Group balance sheet level innovative financial solutions creates the potential to build and so will no longer focus on gearing as a key financial great companies delivering good investment returns.
Instead, we will continue to focus on These returns are only achieved if we work closely with limiting the absolute level of net debt, reducing gross debt companies, ensuring they achieve their full potential.
and managing its maturity profile and maintaining liquidity, Delivering strong investment returns gives us access to thereby ensuring we are well placed to take advantage of multiple capital sources and provides shareholders with a investment opportunities as they arise.
combination of dividends and capital growth.
This year, the combination of strong realisations in the second half and low investment means that we finish Invest in the year with net debt of only 258 million.
I expect our network, people and this to increase next year as we increase our investment knowledge level, but we will stay below our 1 billion limit.
Secure access See the best to capital from investment Operating costs multiple sources opportunities We have taken some difficult decisions during the Core values year to ensure that we have the right cost base for Brand Create Build the business.
A further 148 employees left during the innovative great companies financial year, with headcount at the end of the year being 488. and deliver solutions and outstanding ensure excellent We also decided, after a comprehensive consultation returns execution process with affected employees, to close the UK Achieve full defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual for potential through active partnership current members with effect from 5 April 2011.
Taking steps such as these creates the flexibility to increase resource in areas of strategic importance, such as Asia, without a corresponding increase in overall costs.
Looking forward 3is strategy is focused on continuous improvement Vision, Business model and Strategy to each element of our business model.
We intend to Last year, on becoming Chief Executive, I set out a strengthen our network, particularly in Asia, and to deepen short-term strategy based on restoring the business our sector focus and build our capabilities to support our to financial health.
In this Annual Report we have portfolio companies through our Active Partnership articulated a longer term vision and strategy as well as programme.
All of this will strengthen our market position setting out the key elements of our business model and and build sustainable competitive advantage.
the values that are fundamental to 3i.
We are already seeing significant opportunities to build 3is business is investment and our vision is to be on 3is current business through growth into adjacent recognised as a leading international investor.
I believe we areas and extension of our geographical presence.
should be judged not only on the returns we deliver to While it is our intention to expand the business over our shareholders and third-party investors, which should the next few years, the absolute priority remains the reflect the value we add to companies in which we delivery of attractive returns to shareholders through invest, but also on our responsible approach to investing.
achieving the full potential of current activities.
Our purpose is to work with talented management I am confident we will see some outstanding teams and entrepreneurs to build great companies, opportunities in the next three years and believe we thereby generating outstanding investment returns for are now well placed, with a focused business model, our shareholders and third-party investors.
The terms on good liquidity and a strong balance sheet to invest in which we invest are, of course, critical and we will at all and build some great businesses.
times be highly disciplined in ensuring that we invest well.
Finally, I would like to record my own thanks to Sarah The diagram in the next column highlights the key Hogg.
Sarah joined the Board in 1997 and has been elements of our business model, emphasising the way Chairman for eight years.
The test of any Board is how a self-reinforcing virtuous circle develops if we get it deals with difficult times and tough decisions, and the separate elements right.
The different parts of the Sarah has shown remarkable resilience, good judgment model are described in detail on pages 16 and 17, but a and integrity throughout.
She has provided wise counsel brief summary follows.
to the executive management team at 3i and has helped Everything 3i does is based on a set of core values that me considerably in moving into my current role as Chief we believe are enduring, and our brand and the values Executive.
Everyone connected with 3i is indebted to others associate with it are intended to be the outward her and, on behalf of them, I would like to thank her and representation of this.
wish her well for the future.
Our model is predicated on investment in our network Michael Queen Chief Executive of offices, our people and our relationships, as well as the 12 May 2010 maintenance and enhancement of our sector knowledge.
3is Business model P16-17 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010
