Business review The US has gone in different directions to some other Introduction developed countries within Europe for example.
Unlike the The year began with a re-stocking boom from manufacturing, US, Europe has generally chosen fiscal austerity over further which was expected to lead to a self-sustaining economic stimulus.
It has less room for manoeuvre as it lacks the same recovery, with technology, infrastructure, energy and materials degree of reserve currency status and hence other nations companies all setting the pace.
But despite record amounts propensity to fund its deficits.
The dangers it faces are both of stimulus, and the recession ending in June 2009, the US political and economic: that voters reject structural reforms, economy has remained sluggish.
The huge household debt including big cuts in living standards, but without continued overhang continues to affect jobs and housing.
The Federal public spending, growth may stall again.
Reserve has announced another round of money printing, buying $600 billion of treasury bonds, known as QE2.
Policy has rarely been so consequential and controversial.
Some investors are counting on the notion that government The failure of events to go according to plan has had spending will work in their favour.
Others are depending on multiple consequences, some good, some bad, and nearly its failure simplistically, that deflation will prove a bigger all unintended.
With interest rates held close to zero in the threat than inflation, which has been the fate of Japan for two US, savers have been looking for alternative sources of yield.
But the more the authorities intervention distorts This has led to capital flows mainly into real assets, notably markets, the less predictable the outcome.
That is why the emerging markets, whose economies have rebounded strongly.
biggest winner has been gold, because in many peoples eyes Governments in the developing world are concerned that an it is the only real store of value.
influx of hot money may inflate assets and drive up the value of their currencies and make exports less competitive.
With the dollar being debased, they are relatively powerless.
As a result trade tensions have been increasing across the world.
The long-running US charge that China is a price manipulator is just the most visible illustration of this trend, and one that obscures a deep mutual dependency China is the biggest buyer of US debt, after all.
Chinas unwillingness to back down has been quietly cheered by other emerging nations who question, given the global financial crisis, the USs continued right to leadership.
Yet their shared hope that domestic sources of demand can replace Western ones appears premature.
New orders declined after the re-stocking cycle Gold price is still seen as a safe haven Gold Bullion LBM U$ Troy Ounce US ISM Purchasing Managers Index - Manufacturing New Orders 1400 80 1200 70 1000 60 800 50 40 600 30 400 20 200 1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 94 96 98 00 02 04 06 08 10 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Source: Datastream Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED In the US, disenchantment with equity returns stretching Investment trends back a decade has led to reduced institutional allocations Opportunistic investors identified value in credit markets to active equity mandates, but at the same time more following the mis-pricing that prevailed at the end of 2008-9. money has been directed to international rather than Gradually, liquidity-led buying drew in the more cautious domestic markets.
As with Europe, a sustained enthusiasm and the cost of missing out on rising markets increased the for alternatives is somewhat surprising, not least because in pressure for further investment through late 2009 and into the private equity arena for example much of the funding the second quarter of this year.
In May however the possibility committed in recent years has yet to be invested.
Elsewhere that Greece might default sent shockwaves through markets, Exchange Traded Funds ETFs continue in their popularity, as taking equity indices and credit spreads back to where they does the trend to passive investing overall, meaning active were at the beginning of 2010, though in September some managers are being constantly challenged to prove their stability returned from whence nearly all mainstream markets worth in delivering alpha.
In our UK home market, client allocations to equities have Investment Performance remained quite steady with a lot drawn to the emerging Equities sphere, but in addition many are adopting a more global In general, the less volatile positive tone to markets combined approach for their overall exposure.
On the Continent a with sustained strong performance and our established bond bias prevails with equity allocations typically weighted pedigree in emerging markets worked in our favour.
Interestingly though, enthusiasm for attracted substantial new assets in both dedicated emerging alternatives persists despite poorer performance from this market and Asian accounts, although new business in area in recent quarters.
In terms of overall industry fund segregated mandates for these markets has been constrained flows for the year, net winners have also typically been higher as we remain closed to new money existing clients and yielding bond funds, which is not unsurprising given low buyers of pooled funds are unaffected.
interest rates in many countries.
Increase in end of year equity allocation as a result Emerging Markets lead global recovery of less volatile markets % Changes in asset allocation of end-of-year AuM, 2008-2009 Advanced Economies Emerging Markets World Changes in asset allocation of average AuM, 2008-2009 10 Equity 8 6 Fixed Income 4 Money Market 2 Hybrid 0 balanced Structured -2 products -4 Alternative -6 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 bn -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5 Source: Goldman Sachs Source: BCG Global Asset Manangement Benchmarking, 2009 and 2010 Advanced Economies: Australia, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Euroland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Singapore, Slovakia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, UK, USA.
Emerging Markets: Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, China, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Israel, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Russia, South Africa, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, Uruguary, Venezuela, Vietnam.
20 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Our global equity team has also had a successful year.
We Our specialist teams performed best, namely in Australia, Asia, emerging market debt and high yield, where investor have raised in excess of 5 billion in terms of net new business demand for yield also meant asset gathering was successful.
with a number of mandates won but yet to fund.
Clients We are still witnessing strong interest in our emerging market include sovereign wealth funds and national pension schemes.
debt and Asian fixed income products.
Our core products As well as winning new mandates, we have seen strong performance also improved and encouragingly in our US additional flows from existing clients.
While the majority portfolios, we are now achieving top quartile performance of new money has been into our core unconstrained global over the year-to-date.
However this turnaround will need to product, we also saw an increasing level of new business into be sustained as Core mandates continued to see outflows our EAFE-plus product, a favourite of US-based clients.
In all the above strategies along with US equities, our long We have responded to this issue by addressing weaknesses term performance numbers over three and five years remain in our investment process, namely through greater competitive and, although difficult to quantify, feedback accountability at the product level, while maintaining the from new business pitches indicates that the simplicity and traditional strength of our specialist alpha teams.
We have transparency of our investment process is a major selling also sought to combine our strong regional capabilities point.
This is a support for our core UK and European products, with our existing global teams in order to forge a uniform where we are top quartile over one year but longer-term investment approach.
As a result, our business is increasingly numbers are less compelling.
As a theme, interest continues in moving from low margin core products towards higher margin equity income strategies, and in particular regional and single specialist mandates.
country mandates such as Latin America or India.
As concern mounts over the Wests debts and developing Fixed income nations become net creditors, the old way of seeing safety in After the credit debacle in 2008-9, our fixed income teams G3 or G7 bonds is being challenged.
From a return perspective, have delivered better relative performance.
Credit markets the rally witnessed in US Treasuries this year has benefited rallied from previously oversold levels, supported by a recovery most markets, but yield spreads in many emerging markets are in growth and company earnings.
Risk appetite improved as as wide as before the crisis.
Even though fund flows may be most major developed economies moved out of recession.
vulnerable to reversal in the short term, structural demand over time is likely to shift towards these assets.
Fear that Greece might default sent shockwaves through Europe Public debt ratios projected to rise G7 World Emerging and Advanced in basis points % of GDP Euro area United States United Kindgom developing economies 280 120 economies IMF EU ECB Stability Package 240 90 200 60 160 30 120 0 80 Jan 10 Mar 10 May 10 Jul 10 Sep 10 1950 1958 1966 1974 1982 1990 1998 2006 2014 Source: Datastream Source: Bloomberg, Nominal short term interest rates, 3-month Treasury bill Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Property Alternative investment strategies The past year has seen most international property markets This year we consolidated our various multi asset, multi stabilise after the turbulence of the credit crisis.
Recovering manager and fund of funds activities into a new asset class, known as Alternative Investment Strategies.
The team, enlarged confidence has supported increased investor appetite.
The by Januarys acquisition of the former RBS fund of hedge fund UK saw a 15% year-on-year rebound in property values to business, is now one of the largest multi-manager businesses in mid-2010, and most UK clients allocated new money to the the industry Financial Times Towers Watson, June 2010 and sector, delivering a significant boost to profitability.
UK assets includes over 60 investment professionals worldwide.
under management increased by nearly 800 million over the year.
Despite the termination of a low margin local authority Strong performance from multi-asset products has mandate, a further 300 million of allocations to invest and strengthened existing client relationships and led to additional the award of a new mandate of 120 million are evidence of funding.
The Aberdeen brand is now well established in the continued momentum in this market place.
UK charities sector, much of which adopts a multi-asset investment approach.
Our common investment funds our In Continental Europe and the Nordic region, inflows have charity focussed pooled products are also performing well.
also resumed across a range of pooled products, with Nordic markets in particular now being targeted by international The fund of hedge funds business has been properly investors, attracted by their relative transparency and liquidity.
integrated into the department, and performance is good.
In Germany, we reluctantly decided that with the two-year We look forward to developing this unit and feel it has good maximum permitted suspension period on redemptions long term potential as investors value the strong due diligence approaching, along with an increase in the number of and emphasis on quality that is its hallmark.
We have also investors seeking return of their money, it was best to developed our Fund of Private Equity Fund capability in announce a wind up of the e1.3 billion DEGI Europa mutual the last year through the acquisition of two management property fund.
This will be met by selling underlying properties contracts from Bramdean Asset Management.
One of these is over the next three years.
a UK quoted investment company that has since renamed as Aberdeen Private Equity Fund Limited.
Encouragingly we have We made a handful of organisational changes, following the seen interest in this capability from our existing client base full integration of the distribution and operations functions that has previously had no exposure to the area.
and the elimination of the corporate property brand.
The specialist indirect property team has been expanded and Finally, our indexed equities business experienced a significant inflow of new business during the year with assets under refocused to better embrace the growing demand for global management standing at 7.4 billion at 30 September 2010. indirect property mandates.
Following the retirement of The indexed equity portfolios cover a variety of country, Rickard Backlund as chief executive of our property business, regional, global and sector mandates and are invested using the senior management team in London has been restructured either full replication or optimisation strategies.
Property assets by domicile Short term uncertainty has fallen % 30 04 2010 31 05 2010 30 06 2010 22 09 2010 Middle East 36 & Africa Asia 0.4bn 34 0.6bn UK 32 5.6bn 30 Nordic 5.0bn Near-term 28 uncertainty has fallen 26 Continental & Eastern Europe But medium-term 24 uncertainty 10.1bn remains elevated 22 Jul 10 Sep 10 Nov 10 Jan 11 Mar 11 Total 21.7bn 2009: 22.6bn As at 30 September 2010 Source: Aberdeen Asset Management.
Note: VIX is the Chicago Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index.
22 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Aberdeen's pooled fund range in Luxembourg saw net inflows of over 1.2 billion as at September 2010.
Of this, over 250 million came through Switzerland, 15 Swedish institutions topped up by nearly 120 million and some 28 Italian institutions bought almost 100 million of the funds, while 27 German institutions bought just under 125 million from the fund range.
Elsewhere in Europe, French institutions bought over 30 million.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Business development In terms of new products we launched little new during the The very powerful dynamics in markets had a strong influence year.
A notable exception was a new UK closed-end fund, on asset gathering, and mainly for the better.
Over the period Aberdeen Latin American Income Fund, which raised 52.6 we recorded gross sales of 46.6 billion which translated into million: and an emerging market fixed income local currency net sales of 2.6 billion.
fund, which is growing steadily.
The relative dearth of new product launches underscores the fact that we already have Key wins came across global emerging markets, including representative vehicles among most of the main selling asset regional and single country strategies.
Most gratifyingly this classes of this past year.
included fixed income as well as equities, a traditional strength.
We also continued to boost our reputation in global equities, Like much of the industry we saw outflows from our money although consultant ratings acceptance has been glacial in market funds, which is unsurprising given the low level of some cases, but appears now to have turned in our favour.
interest rates, although these flows are stabilising.
We suffered too from net outflows in our core UK and US fixed income Perhaps the most exciting development was the capture of products.
two institutional accounts from sovereign wealth funds by our Asian fixed income team.
We have high hopes for this asset Distribution trends class.
Our distinct GEM debt team also cemented its standing There have been several developments of note to the with further institutional wins with local currency mandates structure of the funds industry, especially in the West, many of now attracting interest as well as from pooled fund inflows.
which have gained impetus following the credit crisis or have Our biggest frustration was in Australia where our fixed income come about because of it.
performance was exceptional, yet only now is our team being As we noted last year, there has been a strong trend by considered by consultants who had adopted a wait-and-see wholesale distributors to narrow their relationship with approach after the Credit Suisse purchase last year.
fund managers to a handful of partners, and hence abandon From the point of view of fund launches, the winners have more open architecture.
This is most apparent among the been those houses able to capture cross-border flows.
A wall big European private banks.
Indeed, one of the attractions of of money some $500 billion, twice as much as the year our purchase of Credit Suisse assets was to gain access to its before went into funds globally in the first half of 2010, the considerable distribution network.
Global fixed income, especially high However, no distributor can provide uniform reach and yield strategies, emerging market and Asian bonds have all we have had to develop relationships on multiple fronts: done spectacularly well, as have Asian equities.
But the salient on the one hand with centralised product advisers or fund feature in all this has been the dominance of just a handful gatekeepers: on the other with local office sales managers.
Good inflows across most asset classes and Record gross inflows and net gains for equities particularly into equities and alternatives and alternatives Inflow Outflow Net Inflow Outflow Net Equities Americas Fixed Income Asia Pacific Money Market Property Europe ex UK Alternative Middle East & Africa Multi Asset United Kingdom Other bn -100 -50 0 30 60 bn -60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60 Source: Aberdeen Asset Management, year to 30 September 2010.
24 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shorter fund lists make cross-selling of products to Products distributors much harder.
This has led to a concentrated In the past year we have captured a good percentage of interest in our Asian and GEM equities.
Against this, global wholesale money into Asian equity, GEM equity and emerging financial institutions looking to develop strategic partnerships market debt funds.
In all three areas we were helped by tend to favour organisations such as ourselves with a strong well-established teams, a distinctive investment process and footprint globally and with local fund management in the excellent long-term performance.
But to an extent the size of these gains has been assisted by superior market returns and regions where we invest.
may not necessarily be repeated.
The financial crisis shook faith not only in markets, policyIf we are to maintain our rate of growth we must find new makers and regulators, but also in the professional managers sources of distribution and new products.
While Credit Suisse to whom they entrust their money.
In some cases this was has provided an enlarged European platform, we still need a failure of the notion of diversification as all asset classes to get onto the myriad of platforms that belong to insurers, fell together, but it may also have been a failure of risk financial advisers, banks, securities houses and broker dealers measurement.
In casting around for new models however, that dominate in these markets.
new ideas have been wanting.
Attachment to efficient market theory, on which established risk models are largely based, runs In Australia fund platforms and dealer groups form a tight deep, despite evident flaws.
Philosophy aside, the practical issue compact with consultants whose endorsement is critical of where to allocate funds suggests that investor behaviour to achieving funds sales.
In the wake of the Credit Suisse may not have changed much, but due diligence is being given acquisition, consultants put our acquired funds on automatic more importance.
More quarterly client reviews have resulted.
It has been a frustrating twelve months awaiting a follow-up evaluation, but during which we have managed to In the case of Credit Suisse in particular, our key challenge add outperformance.
has been to integrate and energise offices that were used to managing captive client pools which has proved testing What this underscores is that we would be unwise to at times.
We have also had to invest in brand promotion presume on any local loyalty, be this in Australia, the UK, to achieve recognition in new territories.
That has involved US or anywhere else, and irrespective of whether we have engagement with the media, third party distributor established roots.
We must instead invest constantly both to platforms and running fund campaigns.
By and large, retain clients and to attract new ones.
Asian fixed income, however, our first cross-border marketing campaigns have high yield and equity income are all areas where we have been promising, with our Latin American equity campaign credibility and have recently developed products where we shortlisted to win Marketing Campaign of the Year by would expect to gain sales.
Funds Europe magazine, a title we also won last year for the emerging market equity SICAV.
Redemptions from money market funds was major Continued dominance of bond funds globally blow for US net flows in first half of 2010 but now for new net flows seeing recovery as outflows stem $bn $bn Asia Europe International Offshore US 600 100 400 50 200 0 0 -50 -200 -100 -400 -600 -150 -800 Equity Bond Mixed Money Real Other -200 Q109 Q209 Q309 Q409 Q110 Q210 Q310 Market Estate Source: Strategic Insight Simfund GL, MF, VA.
Source: Strategic Insight Simfund GL, MF, VA. Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED With the RBS-Coutts deal, we now find ourselves with some In July, we acquired a number of mandates from the Bank of very competitive funds, but where their distribution was tied Hawaii, adviser of the Pacific Capital Funds.
The $450 million to the Coutts relationship.
In order to drive new sales we must in assets was reorganised into four Aberdeen Funds.
We are open up channels in the UK and Europe involving marketing however looking to grow organically as well and, with disarray campaigns with a more retail flavour.
"in the wider financial sector for much of the period, we directed efforts away from traditional ""wirehouse"" wholesaling Unlike the institutional pitches that have become second and towards the more institutional arena of regional bank nature, this means more support from advertising, discretionary platforms and sophisticated implicitly larger campaigning and fund manager roadshows: a focus on fee-based registered investment advisers."
competitive fee structures: tailored product features such as monthly payouts for income funds : and at the most retail end With the successful integration of four new closed-end funds of the market, more old-fashioned prospecting of new clients.
previously under Credit Suisse, repackaged as Aberdeen, we also launched our first ever US advertising campaign.
This has It is a tall order insofar as our biggest rivals have very helped energise this channel and the boards which fund us considerable resources.
What gives us confidence is that have responded positively.
market needs change fast and so does market leadership.
The UK market, for example, remains surprisingly fragmented.
After a number of years building a solid foundation, our In Europe, entrenched but tired distribution networks mean institutional arm is now benefiting from strong support across we have been welcomed in many places as a new name.
investment consulting firms and developing relationships The upfront costs of attacking new markets can tot up fast: directly with plan sponsors.
After gaining an initial foothold via equally the fees can be compelling once volume follows.
our global emerging markets product, we are encouraged to see recent success and increased activity focused on the Global and Americas EAFE Plus products.
Consistent with strong interest in the asset Turning to our main regions, our strong efforts to build scale class, we have been actively promoting our competitive EMD and grow recognition in the US gained national attention capabilities and won our first EMD local currency mandate.
as Barrons named Aberdeen as one of its Best Mutual Fund Families in their annual survey, with additional top ten In Canada, we passed C$5 billion in assets, including a roster citations across fund categories.
The mutual funds have of financial institution, government and corporate accounts.
developed considerably over the year with now more that Realistically, although we don't anticipate a slowdown in $5 billion in assets through a combination of fund flows and new global EAFE assets, the current rate of growth is not consolidation of internal mergers and acquisitions.
sustainable: in anticipation of this we are shifting our efforts visibility into other products and are optimistic about the potential in global property, EMD and small cap mandates.
Assets by client type Assets by type of mandate Property funds Institutional mandates Money market 11.9bn 116.9bn 10.7bn Property Close end Equities 21.7bn funds 72.1bn excluding property funds 7.8bn Alternative investment Open end strategies funds 29.1bn Fixed income excluding 45.1bn property funds 42.1bn Total 178.7bn 2009: 146.2bn As at 30 September 2010 Total 178.7bn 2009: 146.2bn As at 30 September 2010 Source: Aberdeen Asset Management.
26 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
