6 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Last year we set the following priorities for the Company after the conclusion of the business review which followed Business my appointment as Chief Executive.
These will continue to be our priorities for the coming year.
Review Key Priorities To focus on investment in equities Quoted equities were our preferred asset class throughout the year.
We made steady increases to our holdings of global equities over the year with equities representing 95% of net assets at the year end compared to 77% at the start of the year.
We reduced net cash balances as a proportion of net assets from an opening position of 11.6% to net debt of 4.7% as we redeployed capital into our global equity portfolios.
Our total exposure to other asset classes was largely unchanged, although we actively reduced our Key Performance commercial property holdings towards the year end.
Indicators To continue to improve investment performance Our investment performance lagged over the first half of the year, largely due to not participating fully in the rally in Test 1 highly cyclical companies in March and April.
Performance TSR performance against a peer group, improved over the second half of the year as the market the test to be met for above median recovery broadened out.
For the year, our equity portfolio performance.
Although we failed the test this year, over a 2 year period we ranked returned 26% which compares to a return of 28.4% in the 11th out of 37 in our peer group.
FTSE All-World Index, with a positive relative return of 1.9% in the last six months of the period.
To manage our cost base in line with market conditions We have pro-actively managed our cost base throughout Test 2 the year against a difficult economic backdrop.
Some NAV performance to beat the FTSE Alltough short-term decisions have been made, where World Index in Sterling.
The NAV rose deemed necessary for longer term gains.
As a result, overall by 19.2% in the year to January 2010, employee numbers reduced by 14% over the year.
We have, and the Index rose by 24.9%.
however, increased expenditure in areas which we believe will enhance our long-term investment performance such as the recruitment of our Fixed Income team.
In total, our expenses reduced by 4.8% from 16.8 million last year to 16.0 million and our TER reduced in percentage Test 3 terms to 0.69% 0.70%.
Dividend growth to exceed the increase in RPI.
In the year to 31 Jan To develop our subsidiary businesses 2010, the basic dividend was increased by 1.9%, which was below the 12 Alliance Trust Savings, our subsidiary business which offers month RPI of 3.7%.
While earnings were pension administration, share dealing services and a fund available to meet this test the Board supermarket, completed an extensive business review over took a decision to bolster reserves to the course of the year.
A highly experienced management support the ongoing commitment to a progressive dividend.
team is now in place with a stronger focus on customer service and value.
The enhanced procedures and processes implemented during the year provide a solid foundation for the growth of the business.
Alliance Trust Asset Management launched its first three funds during the year.
These funds offer third party investors, many of whom are Alliance Trust Savings clients, direct exposure to individual areas of expertise within the Companys investment team.
They follow the same long-term investment philosophy Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 7 During the course of the year we had cause to call on our Alliance Business Continuity Plan when a fire in our former head Trust PLC ATS Clients hold Costs shared, office at Meadow House caused damage to computer 21% of Trust shares TER lowered equipment located there.
Our Plan operated successfully 100% owned 100% owned and we were able to conduct business with minimal Financial support Career development for development opportunities disruption: an endorsement of a significant element of the The risk management procedures of the Company.
Since then Shareholder we have taken steps to accelerate the migration of the Alliance Trust Alliance Trust remaining parts of our systems to our new offices.
Savings Asset Management We are broadly supportive of the aims of the recently published Financial Services Authoritys Retail Distribution Introducing Established platform investors for products Review as changes to adviser charging will help to create a state of equality for investment trusts against other financial The diagram above illustrates how the Company and its products.
This should encourage more financial advisers subsidiaries work together for the benefit of our shareholders.
to promote the attributes of investment trusts to their customers and, over the longer term, help to grow the number of investment trust shareholders.
Outlook as employed in managing the Companys assets.
Further fund launches are expected this year.
The International Monetary Fund is forecasting global We expect our financial services subsidiaries to deliver economic growth of around 4% for 2010, although the long-term value to our shareholders.
One of the main drivers of this will be in Asia where, for example, China could To invest in the development of our people experience growth of over 10%.
Another key indicator, which we are monitoring closely, is the unemployment rate The year just ended was a challenging one for our people.
in the United States as the consumer remains the greatest With fewer than 300 employees, each and every one of influence on the US economy.
them has been expected to play their part in the progress of the Company, whether managing the investments of The uncertain timing and pace of the withdrawal of the Trust, meeting the needs of the clients of our subsidiary quantitative easing are concerns for the strength of the businesses, or behind the scenes supporting the business recovery of the UK economy.
Public spending cuts, tax in areas such as information technology, human resources, increases and high unemployment provide a difficult communications, facilities and the control functions.
I am backdrop in the lead up to the general election.
proud of them for rising to this challenge.
We retain a largely positive outlook for equity markets in Business communication and efficiency have improved 2010.
The most important driver this year, we believe, following the relocation to our new company headquarters will be earnings growth, as we continue the recovery from in Dundee.
We continue to invest in the future through recession.
From a regional perspective, we expect Asia our management trainee programme and have found that Pacific and Emerging Markets to maintain their long-term the calibre of the candidates is very high.
A number of growth and we will continue to invest in global companies employee development initiatives have been introduced which are benefiting from the positive demographics during the year.
These include the establishment of a and strong financial resources of Asia.
We are concerned mentoring framework, an annual employee opinion survey about the impact of the fiscal deficits on the prospects for and our employee recognition policy.
This policy includes European and UK equities.
Since the year end we have taken the Alliance Trust Employee Excellence awards which advantage of the recent strength in markets to reduce our recognise outstanding contributions over the year.
Currently we have a balanced portfolio, combining industrial Other Developments and energy related companies which we expect to benefit In our interim report, we commented on our appointment from economic recovery with a number of high-quality of a new team of four highly experienced Fixed Income defensive growth companies with above average yields.
The addition of fixed income expertise to our We continue to refine and to enhance our investment investment team will enhance the income generating decision-making so that we are positioned to take potential of our portfolio and help to reduce our reliance on advantage of the current environment while remaining true equity investments, particularly in the UK, for income.
This to our long-term investment philosophy.
will not diminish our focus on global equities.
We will have greater flexibility in asset allocation as a result of a reduced yield requirement from the constituents of our equity portfolio.
Our stock selection process will also be enhanced by the teams experience in corporate credit analysis.
