12 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Business review Global Retail Banking At the Global Retail Banking investor day in June 2010, we said our strategic goals were Happy customers, strong profit growth, good returns.
We are making significant progress against these goals.
We are focused on improving the service we provide to our customers and have seen positive results from this.
For example, weve reduced the time it takes to issue a replacement debit card in the UK from five to two days.
Our use of innovation is also transforming the customer experience.
Our pioneering contactless payment strategy in the UK has resulted in a much easier experience for our customers.
Ninety percent of the contactless cards issued in the UK are now issued by Barclays, which puts us in a leading position.
In Kenya and Botswana, registration for our mobile banking service increased almost four-fold over the year.
In Western Europe, we continued to expand our network, increasing the number of distribution points by over a hundred, making it easier for customers to access our banking services.
These are just some examples of what we have done to improve the customer experience.
Further progress needs to be made and this is a key priority for us.
In 2010 we delivered a good financial performance with increasing momentum This focus on our customers will generate sustainable value for our shareholders.
GRB improved through the year and made strong its loan to deposit ratio by 4 percentage points to 140%.
Return progress against our strategic and on equity increased from 10% to 11% reflecting strong profit growth in UKRB, Barclaycard and Barclays Africa.
We are facing financial goals challenging economic conditions in Western Europe but remain committed to a presence in the region and to converting the investment we have made into sustainable profit.
Weve achieved greater depth through the integration of Standard Life Bank in the UK and Citigroups card business in Italy.
Our promises I am confident that we are on the right track to meet our objectives and deliver significant value to all our stakeholders.
Global Retail Banking 2013 Targets Income and profit growth Strong compound annual profit growth Antony Jenkins Chief Executive, Global Retail Banking Income growth in excess of cost growth Stable funding ratio Deposits and secured funding to keep pace with asset growth Depth, not breadth Existing markets focus and continued product diversification Strong returns and c 2% RoRWA net equity generation 13-15% RoE c 20% RoTE
