Directors Report The Directors present the annual report and financial statements of particular time or for a particular period, enhance the performance of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December the Group in the pursuit of its objectives.
It is the Boards policy that 2010. the aggregate exposure to such derivatives does not exceed 10% of the gross assets of the Group.
Business Review Principal activity Although investments are principally in companies listed on recognised The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Its principal stock exchanges, the Company may invest up to 10% of its gross activity is portfolio investment and that of its trading subsidiary, assets in unquoted securities.
As at 31 December 2010, the Company BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment held one unquoted investment, Australian Energy Corporation.
BlackRock Gold Limited is a non trading subsidiary.
Unquoted investments can prove to be more volatile than listed investments.
Two further investments, Glencore Finance AG and Status of the Company Grafton Resource Investments Limited, were held at Directors In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs valuation.
The Company is also permitted to enter into stock lending during the year under review, and subsequently, so as to qualify as an arrangements.
investment trust for the purposes of Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The last accounting period for which the It is the Boards current policy that the Company will not invest in any Company has been treated as approved as an investment trust by holding that would represent more than 10% of its gross assets at the HM Revenue & Customs HMRC was for the year ended time of acquisition.
In addition, while the Company may hold shares in 31 December 2009.
It is the Companys intention to continue to seek other listed investment companies including investment trusts, the approval under Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Board has agreed that the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies.
The Company is registered as an investment company as defined in section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an The Groups accounts are maintained in sterling.
investments are denominated and quoted in currencies other than sterling, the Group does not intend to employ a hedging policy against The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the fluctuations in exchange rates.
provisions of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and has no employees.
Information regarding the Companys investment exposures is The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks and contained within the ten largest investments on pages 11 and 12, the shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
investments listing on pages 13 and 14, and portfolio analysis on page 15.
Further information regarding investment risk and activity Continuation of the Company throughout the year can be found in the Investment Managers Report.
As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution for the continuance of the Company is proposed at each Annual General Gearing Meeting.
The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of gearing can add value from time to time.
This gearing is typically in the form of an Investment policy overdraft or short term loan facility, which can be repaid at any time.
The Companys investment policy is to provide a diversified investment in quoted mining and metal securities worldwide, actively managed The level and benefit of gearing is discussed and agreed with the with the objective of maximising total returns.
Up to 10% of the gross Board regularly.
The Investment Manager generally aims to be fully assets of the Company and its trading subsidiary, BlackRock World invested and it is anticipated that gearing will not exceed 15% of the Mining Investment Company Limited the Group, may be invested in Groups net assets.
At the financial reporting date, gearing stood at physical metals.
No material change will be made to the investment 1.8% of shareholders funds.
For further details refer to note 14 on policy without shareholder approval.
It is intended that the Group will normally be fully invested, which Performance means at least 90% will be invested in stocks, shares and physical In the year to 31 December 2010, the Companys net asset value metals.
However, if such investments are deemed to be overvalued, or NAV per share increased by 46.3% compared with a rise in the if the Investment Manager finds it difficult to identify attractively HSBC Global Mining Index of 35.6% and the Companys share price priced opportunities for investment, then up to 25% of the portfolio rose by 48.6% all percentages calculated in sterling terms with may be held in cash or cash equivalents.
Risk is spread by investing in income reinvested.
a number of holdings, many of which themselves are diversified companies.
The Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 10 includes a review of the main developments during the year, together with information The Group may also occasionally utilise derivative instruments such as on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
options, futures and contracts, if it is deemed that these will, at a Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 17 Directors Report continued Results and dividends Performance risk The Board is responsible for deciding the The consolidated profit for the year was 541,022,000 investment strategy to fulfil the Companys objectives and 2009: 597,135,000 of which 11,667,000 2009: 8,714,000 is monitoring the performance of the Investment Manager.
The results for the Group are set out in the inappropriate strategy may lead to underperformance against the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 31. benchmark index.
To manage this risk the Investment Manager provides an explanation of significant stock selection decisions The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of and the rationale for the composition of the investment portfolio.
6.00p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 The Board monitors and mandates an adequate spread of 2009: 4.75p per share.
The dividend will be paid on 11 May 2011 to investments, in order to minimise the risks associated with shareholders on the register of members at close of business on particular countries or factors specific to particular sectors, based 1 April 2011.
The cost of the dividend amounts to 10,652,000. on the diversification requirements inherent in the Companys investment policy.
The Board also receives and reviews regular Derivative transactions reports showing an analysis of the Companys performance Details of the Groups derivative transactions are given in the against the HSBC Global Mining Index and other similar indices, Investment Managers Report on page 9 and in note 18 on pages 44 including the performance of major companies in the sector.
Income dividend risk The amount of dividends and future Key performance indicators dividend growth will depend on the Companys underlying At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of portfolio.
Any change in the tax treatment of the dividends or performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving interest received by the Company including as a result of its objectives.
Amongst others, the key performance indicators withholding taxes or exchange controls imposed by jurisdictions in KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the which the Company invests may reduce the level of dividends Company over time and which are comparable to those reported by received by shareholders.
The Board monitors this risk through the other investment trusts are set out below.
receipt of detailed income forecasts and considers the level of income at each meeting.
2010 2009 1 Regulatory risk The Company operates as an investment trust in Net asset value 962.06p 662.02p accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act Share price 811.00p 550.00p 1 Discount to net asset value 15.7% 16.9% 2010.
As such, the Company is exempt from capital gains tax on Revenue earnings per share 6.57p 4.90p the sale of its investments.
The Investment Manager monitors 2 Total expense ratio 1.3% 1.4% investment movements, the level and type of forecast income and 1.
Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines.
expenditure and the amount of proposed dividends to ensure that 2.
Operating expenses excluding interest costs and any VAT written back as a % of average daily the provisions of Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act shareholders funds.
2010 are not breached and the results are reported to the Board.
The Board monitors the above KPIs on a regular basis.
Additionally, it regularly reviews a number of indices and ratios to understand the Operational risk In common with most other investment trust impact on the Companys relative performance of the various companies, the Company has no employees.
The Company components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
therefore relies upon the services provided by third parties and is dependent on the control systems of the Investment Manager and The Directors recognise that it is in the long term interests of the Companys service providers.
The security, for example, of the shareholders that shares do not trade at a significant discount to their Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and prevailing net asset value.
During the year the shares traded at a maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements, depend on the discount to NAV of between 11.7% and 19.8%, ending the year at effective operation of these systems.
To enable the Board to take action to deal with any overhang or and monitored and an internal control report, which includes an shortage in the market, it seeks approval from shareholders each year assessment of risks together with procedures to mitigate such to buy back and issue shares.
The volatility of the discount during the risks, is prepared by the Investment Manager and reviewed by the year reflects the ongoing volatility in stock markets and the Board is Audit & Management Engagement Committee twice a year.
The mindful of this and will act when it feels that it is in the best interests custodian, The Bank of New York Mellon International Ltd of shareholders to do so.
BNYM, a subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon and the Investment Manager also produce annual internal control reports Principal risks which are reviewed by their respective auditors and give assurance The key risks faced by the Company are set out below.
The Board regarding the effective operation of controls and are also reviewed regularly reviews and agrees policies for managing each risk, as by the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
Resource risk The quality of the investment management team employed by BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited is a 18 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
