REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW OUR BUSINESS structured approach to reducing costs on a project-by-project basis, This is the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2010.
It and process re-engineering which reviews processes end-to-end complies with UK regulations and is the Annual Report on Form 20-F across the group to remove unnecessary steps.
These actions have for the US Securities and Exchange Commission to meet US allowed us to operate more efficiently and consequently reduce our regulations.
By reviewing procurement arrangements with our largest suppliers Who we are on a group-wide basis, we have improved supply terms and service BT is one of the worlds leading communications services companies, delivery.
We expect further benets to be achieved in 2011. serving the needs of customers in the UK and in more than 170 As a result of increased efficiency across our operations, we have countries.
also been able to reduce our total labour resource, delivering substantial cost savings.
In the past year, we have reduced the What we do number of full time employees by around 9,000.
In addition, the Our main activities are the provision of xed lines, broadband, mobile number of indirect employees working through agencies or thirdand TV products and services as well as networked IT services.
party contractors was reduced by around 11,000, giving a reduction In the UK we are the largest communications services provider, in our total labour resource of around 20,000.
As far as possible, we serving the consumer, business and public sector markets.
Globally, have sought to retain our permanent workforce through we supply networked IT services to multinational corporations, redeployment, training and insourcing work which had been domestic businesses and government departments.
We also provide previously performed by subcontractors, and we will continue to do access to our network and services to more than 1,000 other so.
As we drive efficiency we expect to be able to make further communications providers CPs, in the UK and others worldwide.
reductions in total labour costs.
Our aim Investing for the future Our aim is to drive shareholder value by making BT a better business BT continues to invest to bring faster and more feature-rich services with a better future.
to our customers, including higher speed Ethernet and faster Three areas customer service delivery, cost transformation and broadband.
Our Ethernet footprint in the UK market is extensive, investing for the future are essential building blocks to making BT a while ADSL2 broadband delivered over copper lines is currently better business.
They are linked: the better we serve our customers, available to 55% of UK premises, with plans to increase to up to 75% the less time and money we spend on rework and xing faults.
By by spring 2011. continuing to transform our cost base, we open up new opportunities We are investing 1.5bn and aim to make bre-based broadband to invest in BTs future.
services available to at least 40% of UK premises in 2012 one of the We are committed to acting as a responsible business for largest investments in bre-based broadband ever undertaken in shareholders, customers, suppliers and our people, developing Europe.
We aim to make our bre services available to 4m UK innovative solutions that both benefit society and support our premises by the end of 2010.
Assuming an acceptable environment long-term development.
Investing in the communities in which we for investment, we see potential to expand our bre roll out to operate and driving down our CO emissions are critical parts of this around two-thirds of the UK by 2015 for an incremental investment 2 commitment.
This will take our total bre investment to 2.5bn which will be managed within our current levels of capital Customer service delivery expenditure.
Every part of BT is taking action to make substantial improvements to We are responding to market demand by providing a range of the delivery of our services by putting our customers at the heart of broadband access technologies and options a mixed economy everything we do.
model providing customer choice and exibility.
We are increasing This means keeping our promises to our customers, being easy to access speeds over the existing copper infrastructure, over a mix of contact and straightforward to deal with, keeping customers bre and copper, and over bre direct to premises.
This mixed informed, and taking action to address the reasons why they approach maximises use of the existing copper infrastructure, helping complain.
us be more efficient while also accelerating the speed of bre roll out.
We track the real experience of our customers from start to nish, Fibre to the cabinet FTTC will, on current plans, be the most and will remove duplication and inefficiency to drive down service widely deployed bre-based broadband technology, delivering provision time.
download speeds of up to 40Mb s and upload speeds of up to We have signicantly reduced failures, faults and complaints over 10Mb s and rising to up to 15 Mb s. the past year and will invest in training, systems and better processes Fibre to the premises FTTP which delivers speeds initially of up to continue this improvement.
In the last year, we have reduced to 100Mb s is being deployed in new build sites and in existing business and consumer complaints by 50% and 33%, respectively.
premises where it is economically viable to do so.
Super-fast speeds allow users to run multiple bandwidth-hungry Cost transformation applications at the same time.
For example, some members of a We continue our drive to reduce costs across our business and deliver family could be watching different high-denition lms, while others absolute levels of cost reduction.
During 2010, our cost play online games or work on complex graphics or video projects.
transformation activities have delivered a step change in the cost For businesses, the new network will underpin the introduction of base of our business, with a reduction of 1.7bn in total underlying many new services and applications.
Computer processing and operating costs and capital expenditure.
All of our lines of business storage of les will become more sophisticated and secure using and internal service units have made a contribution to the delivery of cloud computing technology, where scalable IT-related capabilities these savings.
are provided as a service to customers using internet technologies.
Savings have been delivered from targeted cost reduction There will be faster back-up of computer systems, and wider use of programmes which focus on eliminating the cost of failure across the high-quality videoconferencing within organisations, and between group, an overhead value analysis programme which provides a them and their customers.
2 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Report of the Directors Business review As part of our plans for the future, we are making additional These changes are delivering results with an improved financial and investments, mainly in the areas of enhancing our TV offering: operational performance, and this is already showing in BT Global introducing other new consumer propositions: and building on Services financial results, with a sequential improvement in adjusted opportunities in BT Global Services, particularly in the Asia Pacic EBITDA and a 434m reduction in operating cash outow in 2010. region.
But there is still much more to do and we will continue to drive this transformation.
Our strategic priorities We are seeking to strengthen our market position by enhancing We will build a better future for BT through our five strategic our product portfolio, improving customer service and contract priorities.
delivery, as well as targeted investment in areas of potential profitable growth, such as in the Asia Pacic region where we already Broadband-based consumer services have a strong market presence.
In this way, we can build on BT Global We recognise that competition is intense and that customers Services world-leading position.
demands are evolving, but we are confident we can continue to win in this changing market.
We already provide the UKs most The wholesaler of choice comprehensive broadband service, offering more features than our BT is committed to supplying CPs in the UK and overseas with vital competitors.
This has helped us maintain our retail share of the communications infrastructure.
We have the broadest portfolio in the broadband digital subscriber line DSL and local loop unbundling industry and are trusted to underpin the UKs infrastructure.
We aim LLU market at around 35% over the past three years.
We plan to to be the wholesaler of choice in the UK, where we have more than build on this position in a number of ways.
1,000 CP customers and we are the established leader for carriers, Following the conclusion of The Ofce of Communications and to extend and develop our international wholesale business.
Over Ofcom narrowband market review in 2010 we are able to benefit the next year, we also aim to consolidate further our position as a from our new regulatory freedom to launch bundled services leading provider of managed network services MNS in the UKs xed targeted at different customer groups.
We will also use the Plusnet and mobile markets.
brand to offer lower-priced services for more price-conscious Our traditional wholesale markets are in decline, but we expect to customers.
see the addressable market grow in the medium-term due to growth We will provide high-speed broadband by exploiting the roll out in digital content, consolidation, convergence and capital constraints of up to 20Mb s broadband services and by taking full advantage of which make our white label services attractive for operators who do the roll out of our up to 100Mb s super-fast bre-based services.
not want to invest in a xed line infrastructure.
We believe the We will build on our existing BT Vision service.
It will be expanded capacity demand on our networks will quadruple by 2013. to include free to air high-denition HD programming, more We are simplifying and reinventing our portfolio through internet interactive services that will transform the TV experience, a wider protocol IP, enhancing our capabilities and expanding our choice of on-demand programming, and we will also provide greater addressable market to become a next generation wholesale business.
We are investing in our products and services for the future, developing advanced, software-driven platforms and services that, The Brand for Business for UK SMEs for example, exchange traditional and IP trafc and capabilities to We are already the leading provider of xed communications for UK deliver video content which is growing exponentially.
small and medium enterprises SMEs, and we are well placed to grow In the mobile space, we are facilitating mobile network operators our mobility and IT activities.
The market is fragmented and no other entry into the xed line market and have MNS contracts in place with supplier can match our channels or breadth of portfolio.
We continue all five key operators.
We are enabling the growth of 3G mobile data to build sales and service channels that can offer our smaller business volumes in a market that is consolidating through mergers and customers a one-stop shop for communications and IT providing infrastructure joint ventures.
good value for money in these challenging economic times.
We aim to continue to win market share and to stem revenue decline by The best network provider developing innovative products such as BT Business One Plan Plus, Super-fast bre-based broadband is critical to BTs future success the first unlimited calls, lines, broadband and mobile option available and will be critical to the UK economy.
We will play a major part in to small businesses in the UK.
this new communications environment and are making good progress in deploying this new technology.
BT Global Services a global leader At the same time, we will also continue to focus on our marketBT Global Services is a global leader in the provision of networked IT leading Ethernet footprint which expanded from 600 nodes, or services.
However, during 2009, the level of profitability in BT Global access points for customers, in 2009 to more than 800 in 2010.
This was caused by a combination of higher Being the best network provider is not just about expanding costs, cost reductions being delivered more slowly than expected and coverage.
We have also improved reliability and reduced costs worsening economic conditions.
This led the BT Group plc Board, the through our cost saving and efficiency programmes.
Our plan is to ultimate parent company of BT, to conclude that previous estimates continue to deliver operational savings through further focus on the of profitability for some of our major contracts were no longer likely efficiency of our work.
We have reduced the number of IT incidents to be achieved.
across the network by 33% over the last two years.
The BT Group plc Board took action and BT Global Services has been restructured including changes being made to the senior How we measure our progress management team see BT Global Services How BT Global Services We measure our progress through key performance indicators: free is changing on page 7. cash ow and customer service.
Over the past year we have worked to improve efficiency and delivery, and to build a stronger business.
We have made significant Free cash ow progress.
We have improved the way we bid for and manage Free cash ow in 2010 was 1,935m, compared with 1,666m in contracts, reduced costs and delivered better service for customers.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 3 Customer service Public sector In 2010 we achieved a 10.5% increase in the internal scores we use As one of the largest suppliers of networked IT services for the UK to measure customer service.
This compares with a 9% improvement Government, we are well placed to help it improve the efficiency and in 2008 and 17% in 2009.
These measures are cumulative, so the effectiveness of public services through networked and shared IT results show real progress is being made.
infrastructures, electronic purchasing and procurement, while meeting stringent security requirements.
We help the Government outsource Outlook services to be more effective with the use of customer contact centres We expect revenue in 2011 of around 20bn and operating cost and the internet for revenue collection and benefit distribution, savings of around 900m, with capital expenditure of around engagement with citizens, and mobile and exible working.
We are a trusted supplier of networked IT services to central and regional governments in many other countries around the world.
As Our markets one example of this, an important new business win for BT Global We serve the needs of customers in the UK and in more than 170 Services this year was a major contract awarded by the Spanish countries around the world.
government to connect its embassies across the world with national In the UK, regulation and the open, commercial marketplace have and international data networks.
created one of the most competitive telecommunications markets in The UK Government, collectively, is our largest customer, but the the world.
The market is characterised by demand for increasingly provision of services to any one of its departments or agencies does lower prices, ease of use, speed, reduced operational complexity, and not comprise a material proportion of our revenue.
Except as the ability to offer end users genuinely differentiated services with described in Our relationship with HM Government on page 16, the improved quality of service.
commercial relationship between BT as a supplier and the UK Government as a customer has been on a normal customer and Competition supplier basis.
The markets in which we operate are very competitive.
In the UK consumer market, our voice and broadband offerings SMEs compete with a range of players and propositions.
Our We provide the UKs SMEs with a range of IT and communications competitors include a number of well known brands that utilise solutions.
We have around 1m SME customers, characterised by their BTs infrastructure to provide competing services in telephony and diversity, which can be anything from a start-up or micro-business broadband, and also Virgin Media which provides an alternative with from one to 10 employees, through to a substantial mediumservice utilising its own cable network.
sized business with up to 1,000 or more employees.
We aim to In serving our SME customers, we nd competition is fragmented simplify the management of communications for these customers, and can depend on which services our customers take from us, giving them value for money and driving innovation so they can get simple connectivity, or one of our more popular IT services more benefit from their investment in communications.
For smaller accounts, we might be in competition with broadband, e-mail, VoIP and online applications help SMEs keep in local start-ups or services rms such as Geek Squad.
For larger touch and communicate online with their customers, employees and SMEs, we face competition from, among others, TalkTalk via Opal suppliers, while our domain and web-hosting services make it easy and Cable & Wireless Worldwide.
However, we retain the largest for them to get online, develop their business online and sell online.
market share in voice telephony.
Our mobile services also help our SME customers work on the move.
The networked IT services market is also challenging, both in the UK Cloud computing has great potential for delivering IT services to and internationally.
Companies such as Orange Business Services SMEs at lower prices.
It is a style of computing where scalable and and Verizon Business are targeting multinational corporations.
exible IT capabilities are provided as a service to customers over Finally, while we have the largest network in the UK, our BT the internet.
We are offering business applications that exploit Wholesale and Openreach lines of business compete regularly cloud computing.
against other CPs either selling network capabilities to others or choosing to build their own infrastructure.
Consumer We serve consumer customers in the UK with xed lines, broadband, Customers mobile and TV products and services.
We aim to offer value-forWe meet the needs of customers ranging from individual consumers money packages.
through to multinational corporations and the communications We meet the needs of the increasing numbers of consumers industry.
Our portfolio of products and services is sold in four wanting to buy telephony, broadband and TV from a single provider.
customer segments by the customer-facing lines of business: BT These bundled services have increased in popularity as they meet Global Services, BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
users needs at a xed price.
BT Vision, our on-demand television service, gives viewers access to a wide range of TV and radio channels Multinational corporations and pay-per-view services.
BT Global Services provides networked IT services to organisations We are also the only CP to offer a special service across the UK to ranging from multinational corporations like major banks, retailers the more vulnerable members of our society.
BT Basic offers a and pharmaceutical manufacturers to local businesses and discount of over 60% off line rental, is available to nearly four million government departments, in more than 170 countries.
Organisations people on low income and also includes a call allowance.
need to be more efficient and effective.
They are looking at ways to meet expectations of customer service at a time when, as a result of Wholesale and carrier economic conditions, budgets are increasingly under pressure.
Our wholesale and carrier customers are xed and mobile operators, We have created a powerful combination of networked IT and internet service providers, broadcasters, and other CPs.
We provide professional services capabilities to help our customers deliver these customers with a portfolio of broadband and high-speed data sustainable organisations, communicate effectively, improve their connectivity, interoperability, voice and interconnection services, as own customer focus, create security and resilience, react to a well as partial or fully-managed network services and platforms.
changing marketplace, and increase their operational efficiency.
4 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Report of the Directors Business review They are a diverse group of companies, with end users ranging from OUR RESOURCES large corporations to individual households.
Introduction Our resources, in particular our brand and reputation, our people, our How we are structured networks and platforms, global research capability, suppliers and We have four customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, property portfolio are critical to delivering our business priorities.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
These are supported by two internal service units: BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
Brand and reputation BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach operate mainly in the UK, We are committed to delivering our brand vision of helping our where we are one of the largest communications services providers to customers thrive in a changing world.
the consumer and business markets.
BT Global Services operates in We are proud to have a trusted brand that is recognised in the UK the UK and globally.
and around the world as a leader in delivering communications In the UK we support CPs through BT Wholesale and Openreach, services.
and internationally through Global Telecoms Markets, a part of BT A strong brand is important as it helps shape our relationships with Global Services.
customers and suppliers, and between the people who work for the company.
Customers turn to suppliers they know they can rely on.
How we sell our products and services BT has a portfolio of around 1,800 products and services, divided People into five broad categories: One of our key resources is our people and we aim to maintain a team Managed solutions which comprise networked IT services, multiof high-performing, engaged and motivated people who can make a protocol label switching MPLS and MNS difference for customers, shareholders, the company and themselves.
Broadband and convergence The quality of our leadership is vital to BTs continued transformation.
Calls and lines We aim to ensure leaders at all levels understand what is expected of Transit, conveyance, interconnect circuits, wholesale line rental them and have access to appropriate development opportunities.
WLR, global carrier and other wholesale products The improvement in our efficiency has enabled us to reduce our Other products and services which include BT Global Services total labour resource with the majority of this reduction in indirect revenue from non UK global products and BT Retails Enterprises labour.
We have a successful track record of redeploying and division including revenue from conferencing, directories, retraining people by helping them learn new skills and nd jobs payphones and other select services.
Some BT people are being given the UK consumers can contact us online, through our call centres, or in opportunity to gain valuable experience and develop their skills while stores without walls which are situated in prime locations in major seconded to another organisation.
shopping centres across the UK and provide an opportunity for our At 31 March 2010, BT employed around 78,200 full-time customers to interact with us face-to-face.
We promote our products equivalent people in the UK, and around 17,900 outside the UK.
We and services widely using a full range of media including TV and social also employ 32,000 people indirectly, through agencies and media such as Facebook.
contractors, giving BT a total labour resource of around 128,100.
This We sell to the UKs SMEs through our call centres, online, or via represents a reduction in total labour resource in the past year of account teams, and also through 47 BT Local Businesses regional around 20,000 people.
franchises with their own sales staff and account management teams.
We continue to support an inclusive working environment in CPs can order most of our products and services online, and we which our people can develop their careers regardless of their race, have standardised our systems and processes across our next sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership status, age, generation broadband portfolio to streamline service delivery.
sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or caring Increasingly, our CP customers are choosing MNS.
We bring BTs responsibilities and we are proud of our performance benchmarks.
economies of scale to their cost base, and they no longer have to Our policy is for people to be paid fairly, regardless of gender, ethnic worry about core network management, building new infrastructure origin or disability.
or even running an engineering eld force.
By outsourcing these We work with specialist recruitment agencies to attract people tasks to BT, our customers are free to focus on their own customers with disabilities to work for BT and, in partnership with Remploy, we needs.
run a retention service to ensure that talented people can stay with us Our biggest wholesale customers are supported by client directors even if their capabilities change.
who have a thorough understanding of the companies they support We aim to give our people the skills and the tools necessary to and take overall responsibility providing products and services from ensure that every customer experience is an excellent one.
We offer our existing portfolio, and developing solutions based on their our people a wide range of learning and re-skilling opportunities.
For understanding of their customers business priorities.
example, this year more than 5,000 BT people, many of whom have Openreach has a range of account management options from very few formally-recognised qualications, are undertaking training which CPs can choose.
All new customers go through a specialised that will lead to a  qualication awarded by a customer establishment process, fully supported by dedicated third party.
We also support federated and group apprenticeship Openreach people.
Once set up, customers mainly order through a schemes.
secure online portal, where possible by integrating the Openreach BT people are also encouraged to volunteer in their communities order management system into their own operations.
and about 4,000 people around the world have been involved in BT Global Services manages a wide variety of customers, with 2010 for around 28,700 days.
The community benets from their relationships of varying degrees of complexity.
We have created a involvement, while they benefit from the opportunity to enhance new and consistent framework for our relationships.
These range their existing skills.
from complex relationships with global multinational corporations, where we have developed a client engagement model integrating Reward and recognition sales delivery and professional services, through to desk-based We conduct a review of salaries every year.
Managers are eligible for account management relationships, channel partner relationships variable, performance related bonuses, and the long-term share and even web-based self-servicing for some other customers.
incentives for our most senior managers are linked to BT Group plcs Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 5 total shareholder return and cash generation performance measured communications channels, including online news services, quarterly over a period of three years.
For Openreach senior managers, the key employee magazine and two-way communications activities such as measure is Openreachs performance over a three year period.
town hall meetings and webchats.
Employees outside the UK currently receive an annual award of We have a record of stable industrial relations and constructive free shares in the ultimate holding company BT Group plc or a cash relationships with recognised unions in the UK and works councils equivalent depending on local legislation and or regulation.
In the elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK, we recognise two main trade unions UK, employees receive free broadband.
Employees in more than 25 the CWU and Prospect.
We also operate a pan-European works countries also have the opportunity to save to buy BT Group plc council, the BT European Consultation Committee BTECC.
shares at a discount to the price at the start of the savings period.
Under the BT Employee Share Investment Plan, UK employees can Networks & platforms buy BT Group plc shares from their pre-tax and pre-National We have the most comprehensive xed line communications network Insurance salaries.
More than 50% of eligible employees participate in the UK, with around 5,600 exchanges and 670 local and 120 trunk in one or more of these plans.
In relation to the 2010 pay review, the company made an offer to We own and maintain the UKs local access network the copper increase salaries but has not reached agreement with the wires and bre connecting homes and businesses to telephone Communication Workers Union CWU regarding a pay settlement for exchanges, from where their phone calls and data are transmitted the team member non manager population.
The company has across the country and the world.
This access network covers reached an agreement with the pay negotiating committee of 30m xed lines and more than 8m broadband lines.
Every day, Prospect, the trade union representing managerial and professional 300m telephone calls and 350m internet connections are made staff, on the pay arrangements for 2010.
This agreement was across it.
recommended to the membership by the executive committee of the More than 99% of UK premises now have access to first union and it is hoped that the settlement will be accepted by the generation broadband which is capable of delivering up to 8Mb s. membership of the union following a ballot which is currently being At 31 March 2010, our second generation broadband, based on conducted.
ADSL2 technology, offers up to 20Mb s service to 55% of UK premises, with plans to increase to 75% by spring 2011.
We are now Pensions rolling out super-fast bre-based broadband, with a combination of Most of BTs UK employees are members of a pension scheme either FTTC and FTTP.
We aim to make our bre services available to 4m UK the BT Pension Scheme BTPS, a dened benefit scheme, or the BT premises by the end of 2010 and at least 40% of UK premises in Retirement Saving Scheme BTRSS, a dened contribution scheme.
The BTPS has around 55,000 active members, 185,000 pensioners Our international MPLS network service provides coverage and and 93,000 deferred members.
The BTPS was closed to new members support around the world.
It provides the performance, reliability, on 31 March 2001. and security of a leased-line network with the scalability and As a result of a review of our UK pension arrangements in 2009, exibilities of an IP network.
It delivers mission critical data there have been changes to future benefit accruals under the BTPS.
applications, as well as multimedia and our business quality IP voice To ensure the scheme remains exible, fair and sustainable in the service, as part of a converged voice and data solution.
BT MPLS long-term, benets built up from 1 April 2009 are now on a career allows customers to prioritise trafc based on application, ensuring average re-valued earnings basis, members contributions have essential data applications are served irrespective of the growth of increased, and the scheme has ceased to be contracted out of the competing, lower priority trafc.
Also, the normal pension age has risen from 60 to 65.
Benets built up before 1 April 2009 remain linked to Global research capability final pensionable salary.
Technology innovation and the ability to create new and exciting BT has reached agreement with the Trustee of the BTPS on the products and services our customers want is critical to BTs future.
triennial funding valuation of the BTPS at 31 December 2008, and a Our research and development team works with customers, 17-year recovery plan which is discussed in more detail in the partners and universities around the world.
We have dedicated Financial review on page 24. innovation scanning teams in the US, Asia, Europe and the Middle The BTRSS was set up on 1 April 2009 and more than 17,500 East who identied more than 500 new technologies, business active members.
It is a contract-based, dened contribution propositions and market trends over the year and global arrangement, which means that what the pension members receive is development centres in the UK, US, Europe, India and China.
We have linked to contributions paid, the performance of the fund and the focused on bringing our innovation scanning and research teams annuity rates at retirement, rather than to their final BT salary.
closer to our customers, designers and product development teams so that BT can quickly capitalise on the opportunities they uncover.
Health and safety In 2010 we invested 789m 2009: 1,119m in global research The health and safety of our people are of paramount importance, and development to support our drive for innovation.
This and we continue to seek improvements by focusing on behavioural investment comprised capitalised software development costs of and lifestyle change.
345m 2009: 529m and research and development operating Our lost time injury rate rose for the first time in three years, and costs of 444m 2009: 590m.
we failed to meet our target, due to the adverse winter weather conditions in the UK resulting in an increase in injuries.
Suppliers We failed to meet our target for sickness absence this year due to BT has around 11,000 suppliers across the world, and spends the H1N1 swine u inuenza pandemic, causing an anomaly in the approximately 12bn per annum with them, with the top 100 number of cases of colds and u. accounting for more than 65% of this spend.
We operate a strategic sourcing process for the vast majority of spend to derive maximum People engagement and communications value and ensure the appropriate suppliers are engaged.
Keeping our people informed about what is happening in BT is an We source products and services from across the world and have important part of how we manage our business.
We use a range of procurement professionals located in 16 countries.
6 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Report of the Directors Business review We have a set of purchasing principles which ensure we act in an BT Global Services ethically and commercially responsible way in our business dealings How BT Global Services is changing with our global supply base.
We work with our suppliers to ensure the In 2009, a combination of higher costs, the slow delivery of cost goods and services we procure are made, delivered and disposed of in reduction initiatives and worsening economic conditions caused the a socially and  manner.
Sustainability level of profitability in BT Global Services to fall signicantly.
The factors such as energy usage, environmental impact, and labour Board took action as a result of this, including changing the BT Global standards are embedded in our sourcing and adjudication process, Services senior management team.
and inuence supplier and product selection.
The new teams brief was to address the cost base, bring greater focus to the profitability of new contract wins and reduce shortfalls in Payment of suppliers delivery performance on existing contracts.
In normal circumstances, BTs payment terms for contracted suppliers The management team undertook an extensive review of BT will be to pay each due, valid and undisputed invoice between 60 and Global Services financial position, contracts and operations.
The 73 days from date of receipt from the supplier.
There are variations to financial review covered the financial performance of BT Global this policy, for example interconnect payments to other Services and its balance sheet position.
The contract reviews covered telecommunications operators, low value spend, various customerthe largest and most complex contracts and were conducted jointly specified requirements and rates are paid in shorter timescales.
Having completed the contract and financial 2010, the average number of days between the invoice date and the reviews, charges of 1.6bn were recognised in 2009, which included date of the payment run for the invoice was 49 2009: 49.
1.2bn relating to two major contracts.
These charges reected a In the UK, BT provides access to a supplier nancing scheme which more cautious view of the recognition of the expected and future offers contracted suppliers the opportunity to obtain payments in cost efficiencies and revenues and other changes in underlying advance of the agreed terms.
In addition, BT subscribes to the Better assumptions and estimates, particularly in the light of the economic Payment Practice Code, details of which can be found at outlook.
co. uk The new management team implemented a number of process improvements in 2009 and further enhancements have been made in Property portfolio 2010, as noted below.
At 31 March 2010, we occupied around 6,500 properties in the UK, The operational review was completed towards the end of 2009 and around 350 general purpose properties in the rest of the world.
and resulted in a revised operating model and restructuring plan to The majority of the UK properties are owned by and leased from reshape and refocus the business, in order to further enhance BT Telereal Trillium, which is part of the William Pears Group.
Global Services ability to serve customers and establish a Approximately 85% of the UK portfolio consists of operational signicantly lower cost base.
telephone exchanges which contain exchange equipment and are In 2009, we said that we expected to incur restructuring charges needed as part of our continuing activities.
Other general purpose of around 420m in 2010 and 2011.
In 2010, we have recognised properties consist chiey of ofces, depots and computer centres.
restructuring charges of 301m 2009: 280m, predominately We are constantly monitoring our use of space.
In the last two comprising network, products and supplier rationalisation charges years, our focus on cost savings and efficiency has led to significant and people and property costs.
Further restructuring charges of reductions in our total labour resource.
This has resulted in vacant around 175m are expected to be incurred in 2011, giving a total space and under-utilisation of buildings within our UK property charge of around 475m, above our original estimate of 420m.
Accordingly, in 2010 we initiated a property rationalisation increase reects the complexities of our restructuring programme.
An programme to consolidate ofce space within the estate, as detailed analysis of these charges is provided in the Specic items section of in the Specic items section of the Financial review on page 20. the Financial review on page 20.
In 2010 we implemented the new operating model in BT Global OUR PERFORMANCE BY LINE OF BUSINESS Services, which focuses on three customer segments: Customer-facing line of business financial performance seamless global connectivity and networked IT services to Our customer-facing lines of business are BT Global Services, multinational corporations BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
They meet the needs of our networked IT services to customers in the UK corporate and public different customer groups, supported by two internal service units, sectors BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
networked IT services to corporate and public sector customers The financial performance of each of our customer-facing lines of outside the UK.
business for 2010 and 2009 is discussed in this section.
We measure Other structural improvements have been made to improve the the financial performance of BT Global Services, BT Retail, BT organisation.
During 2010 we signicantly improved contract Wholesale and Openreach on an adjusted basis, being revenue, management, risk management and performance.
We have changed EBITDA and operating profit all stated before specic items.
For BT the way we bid for major contracts and also carry out regular in-life Global Services adjusted EBITDA also excludes the impact of the contract reviews to assess commercial risks and opportunities and to contract and financial review charges recognised in 2009.
For further improve contract performance, creating independent review teams to discussion of these items, see pages 26 and 27.
A reconciliation of provide additional assurance on our most significant contracts.
adjusted EBITDA to group operating profit loss by customer-facing Sales teams have been realigned to focus on the key customer line of business, and for the group, is provided in the Segment segments, and service units have been restructured.
We have brought information note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on together all design, programme and technical delivery people across page 47.
The financial performance commentaries for each the wider design organisation to standardise and create replicable customer-facing line of business also discuss movements in operating solutions.
This has helped us to manage and more accurately forecast cash ow.
Operating cash ow is dened as adjusted EBITDA less demand and costs.
We have continued to rationalise systems and direct and allocated capital expenditure, working capital movements networks.
Strategy, marketing, propositions, commercial, legal and and other non-cash items.
regulatory functions have also been realigned.
We have made progress this year but we still have more to do.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 7 Business overview Financial performance a 2010 2009 BT Global Services is a global leader in the provision of networked IT m m services to multinational corporations, domestic businesses, Adjusted revenue 8,513 8,551 government departments and other CPs in more than 170 countries.
Net operating costs 8,056 8,294 We have a strong customer base, global reach, and a powerful Adjusted EBITDA 457 257 combination of networked IT and professional services capabilities.
b Contract and financial review charges 1,639 We aim to be the global partner of choice for multinational corporations, the number one provider to business and public sector EBITDA 457 1,382 organisations in the UK, and a leading player in other countries key to Depreciation and amortisation 815 776 our customers.
Our professional services consultants use in-depth Adjusted operating loss profit 358 2,158 knowledge of networked IT services, combined with a solid Capital expenditure 599 886 understanding of sector-based business processes, to build on the Operating cash ow 482 916 investment our customers make in networked IT services to help a Restated.
See page 47. them to realise business benets, including cost saving, productivity b Contract and financial review charges in 2009 include 41m recognised in revenue.
gains, competitive advantage, and improved customer experience and loyalty.
We have consultants located worldwide helping our In 2010 revenue remained broadly at.
Revenue includes the impact customers choose the right technology solution for their business, of favourable foreign exchange movements of 269m and and how to use it to deliver what they need.
Excluding these, underlying revenue decreased We build and run complex networks for our customers to enable by 3%.
The reduction in underlying revenue reects the trends seen them to deliver applications critical to their success.
Building on our throughout the year including the impact of mobile termination rate network expertise, we provide services which include unied reductions, lower wholesale call volumes in Continental Europe, communications, mobility, customer relationship management CRM declines in UK calls and lines revenue and the impact of economic and customer contact centres, data centre services, exible working, conditions.
IT sustainability, managed security and sophisticated conferencing Revenue from outside the UK increased to 50% of BT Global solutions.
Services total revenue 2009: 48% reecting the impact of organic Our customers benefit from BTs global scale, but they are sold to, growth as well as foreign exchange movements.
and served by, our teams in their own countries and sectors who a understand their specic business challenges and create locally 2010 2009 m m relevant solutions.
BT Global Services has a worldwide reach and capability.
More Products and services than 300 of our top customers are headquartered in the US.
In Latin Managed solutions 5,281 5,196 America, we operate in 22 countries where we offer communications Calls and lines 956 1,055 services including IP infrastructure, outsourcing solutions and Global carrier 822 904 business transformation.
Broadband and convergence 334 321 The worlds top stock exchanges, leading broker-dealers and Other products and services 1,120 1,075 biggest banks depend on BT infrastructure to provide secure, shared Total adjusted revenue 8,513 8,551 connectivity and services.
BT Global Services sees the Asia Pacic region as a major area for growth and plans to further increase its capabilities to capture the Revenue from managed solutions increased by 2%.
Within this, dynamic business opportunities available in the fast-growing region.
networked IT services revenue was negatively impacted by the The new investment will build on the strong market presence already challenging economic conditions.
This was offset by increased MPLS established and will align to growth plans of multinational customers revenue and the impact of favourable foreign exchange rate as they continue to expand.
Key elements will be extending our movements.
professional services, industry sector and innovation resources with Calls and lines revenue decreased by 9%, the reduced rate of enhancements to many products and services and the establishment decline reecting our focus on winning new business to mitigate the of technology showcase centres where customers can directly continuing trend of customers migrating to alternative services experience BTs leading edge products.
In China we have technology and service centres providing Global carrier revenue decreased by 9% due to the impact of software development, service delivery and multilingual customer mobile termination rate reductions and lower wholesale call volumes support.
Headquartered in Singapore, BT Frontline is a leading regional Broadband and convergence revenue increased by 4% reecting provider of end-to-end IT services including consulting and continued demand for business mobility solutions.
Other revenue, implementation, IT security, enterprise software and outsourcing principally comprising global product revenues increased by 4% services and solutions.
partially due to foreign exchange movements and global demand.
In Europe, we are a leading provider of communication services Net operating costs decreased by 3% to 8,056m.
This decrease is dedicated to the corporate, SME and public sectors in Italy.
In Spain, after the adverse impact of foreign exchange rate movements of we are a leading alternative enterprise data transmission provider.
Excluding these, underlying Our customers in Germany include more than two-thirds of the DAX operating costs decreased by 6%.
This improvement reects delivery 30 companies.
of our cost saving initiatives during 2010.
These initiatives have More than 20 of Switzerlands top 100 multinational companies addressed our total labour cost, resulting in a reduction of more than and international financial organisations use our services, as well as 5,900 in total labour resource in 2010.
They also reect continued global institutions including the World Health Organisation and the progress in the re-negotiation of better pricing through our United Nations.
In the three Benelux countries, our 870 customers procurement channels and the simplication of processes, systems include the EU and NATO.
8 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Report of the Directors Business review As a result of our progress in addressing the cost base, adjusted them grow their business, whether it be solutions that unify their IT EBITDA increased by 78%.
In 2009 EBITDA was a loss of 1,382m, and communications needs, or ways to help them collaborate.
principally due to the contract and financial review charges of BT Business generated 2.6bn revenue in 2010.
SMEs spend in total around 29bn a year on their IT and Depreciation and amortisation increased by 5% to 815m.
The telecommunications needs, presenting a significant opportunity for increase reects the impact of unfavourable foreign exchange BT Business.
movements and the timing of higher value and shorter-lived BT Enterprises consists of a portfolio of businesses, including BT software assets which were brought into use in prior years.
Conferencing, BT Directories, BT Expedite, BT Payphones and BT The adjusted operating loss in 2010 was 358m, an improvement Redcare.
Each of these businesses operates as a standalone business, compared with the loss of 2,158m in 2009.
The improvement is due with the support of BTs brand and customer relationships.
to the operational improvements in the performance of BT Global Services and the impact of the contract and financial review charges BT Conferencing Global provider of audio, video and internet in 2009. collaboration services Capital expenditure reduced by 32% to 599m in 2010 due to the BT Directories Directory Enquiries 118 500, operator and timing of capital expenditure across certain of our larger customer emergency services, and The Phone Book contracts, more stringent investment return criteria and improved BT Expedite Software and IT services for retailers.
BT Expedite procurement and programme delivery.
now supports more than 10,000 points of sale Operating cash outow in 2010 almost halved from an outow of for more than 60 retailers 916m to 482m reecting the higher EBITDA, improved working capital and lower capital expenditure.
In 2009, the poor operating cash BT Payphones Street, managed, prison, card and private outow reected the unacceptable performance of BT Global Services.
In a declining market, we are committed to meeting our obligation to provide BT Retail a public payphone service Business overview BT Redcare Alarm monitoring and tracking facilities BT Retail has around 13m consumer lines in the UK, and around a million SME customers.
We serve UK consumers and SMEs through Our BT Openzone business provides wihotspots to offer broadband four customer-facing divisions: BT Consumer, BT Business, BT on the move, both to retail customers and to wholesale customers Enterprises and BT Ireland.
such as mobile network operators.
BT Openzone has now become We are the UKs leading provider of telecommunications products part of BT Enterprises.
and services to the consumer market, where we offer our customers We design our products and services for use by as many people as innovative and value-for-money calls, lines, broadband and TV possible.
com to make it more accessible to packages.
all, including those with impaired abilities, and we are the only FTSE BT Vision, our television service, now has over 6,000 hours of 100 company to hold the See it Right industry accreditation for our video on-demand content available, the most in the UK.
Among its inclusion website www.
com inclusion selection of more than 7,000 programmes, it has 600 lms, from BT Retail is also improving the sustainability of its products and classics to family favourites, with seven new titles added every week.
services by reducing their environmental impact and improving their BT Vision will be expanded to include free-to-air HD programming, energy efficiency.
For example, our Home Hub 2.0 has a standby more interactive services, a wider choice of on-demand facility to reduce power consumption.
We are also reducing the programming, and we will provide greater access to premium sports.
volume of our product packaging as well as using recycled materials.
We believe that Project Canvas, our TV joint venture with the BBC, BT Ireland operates in Northern Ireland and in the Republic of Channel 4, Five, ITV, and others, will transform the UK TV market, Ireland.
In Northern Ireland we are one of the leading providers of combining free digital channels with free on-demand content from communication services to consumers and SMEs.
We are also public service broadcasters and on-demand and interactive TV responsible for providing regulated wholesale access via Openreach.
In the Republic of Ireland, we are one of the largest providers of BT Business customers are characterised by their diversity, ranging wholesale network services.
Across the country we are the second from start-up or micro businesses with one to 10 employees, to largest provider of IT services focusing mainly on government and medium-sized businesses with up to 1,000 or more.
We offer SMEs telecommunications and IT services that were once available only to the largest businesses, helping them cut costs and Financial performance a improve services to their own customers.
We take away their need to 2010 2009 m m invest and take the burden out of implementing new technologies, so Revenue 8,297 8,663 they can concentrate on their core business.
We also offer them a Net operating costs 6,447 6,999 range of specialised services through BT Enterprises.
BT is also one of the largest single supplier of leased line internet Adjusted EBITDA 1,850 1,664 access to UK businesses through BT Net, which together with our Depreciation and amortisation 459 426 Etherow service was the first to leverage the resilience and exibility Adjusted operating profit 1,391 1,238 of BTs software-driven IP network platform, enabling new features Capital expenditure 417 471 such as our self-service Etherow portal which makes it quicker and Operating cash ow 1,640 1,064 easier for businesses to manage and recongure services as their a Restated.
In addition, BT has the largest wholly owned estate of customer access points in the UK market more than 800 which In 2010 revenue decreased by 4% to 8,297m.
Revenue benefited increases availability and reliability while driving down the cost of from favourable foreign exchange rate movements of 31m, high quality internet and Ethernet connectivity for our customers.
acquisitions of 18m and a one-off benefit of 40m relating to prior BT Business aims to become the Brand for Business for the UKs periods.
Excluding these, revenue declined by 5%.
This means partnering with customers to nd ways to help Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 9 BT Consumer and BT Business revenue decreased by 3% and 9%, We offer wholesale products but can also manage a customers respectively, reecting the continued reduction in calls and lines network infrastructure via our MNS solutions, as we do for customers revenue.
Both the BT Consumer and BT Business divisions faced like Virgin Media and KCOM Group.
Our white label managed services challenging market conditions throughout 2010, arising from a are designed for customers who have not invested in xed line combination of the economic climate, particularly in the business infrastructure or want to enter the xed line communications market market where the level of insolvencies has remained high, and for the first time.
Customers like the Post Ofce and Scottish and competitive pressure.
Southern Energy, as well as Vodafone and O s xed line businesses, 2 fall into this category.
a 2010 2009 We support the mobile industry with xed line services that m m connect thousands of base stations across the UK to the mobile Products and services network operators core networks, without the capital investment Calls and lines 5,031 5,422 and time to market that a self build option would require.
We have Broadband and convergence 1,316 1,313 managed services contracts in place with all of the UKs mobile Managed solutions 588 599 network operators to help them manage the growth in mobile data Other products and services 989 986 and video content volumes generated by 3G services as well as External revenue 7,924 8,320 national wiaccess through BT Openzone.
Internal revenue 373 343 Products and services Total 8,297 8,663 Wholesale Ethernet a Restated.
We offer IP-based Ethernet services across the widest national footprint in the UK market, giving customers high-speed data Calls and lines revenue decreased by 7% in 2010 reecting the connectivity at a range of speeds.
At 31 March 2010, Wholesale economy and the increasingly competitive market environment.
Ethernet was available from more than 800 nodes throughout the UK Broadband and convergence revenue remained broadly at in 2009: 600 nodes.
2010, reecting the successful retention of customers in the maturing broadband market, together with revenue from services Private and partial private circuits such as BT Vision and mobility.
BT Wholesale is the largest provider of analogue data circuits in the Managed solutions ICT revenue decreased by 2% in 2010 UK which help our customers extend the reach of their services and reecting the economic conditions in the business market compared act as inll solutions for their own networks.
Other products and services revenue, which principally comprises Wholesale broadband our Enterprises division, remained broadly at in 2010.
We are the UKs largest wholesale provider of broadband nationally.
Net operating costs decreased by 8%.
Excluding the impact of We currently enable more than 8m broadband lines in the UK, unfavourable foreign exchange movements of 27m, acquisitions of including CP customers who have invested in their own broadband 16m and a favourable one-off internal rebate of 15m relating to infrastructure and use our services outside their own network prior periods, underlying costs reduced by 8%.
the reduction in revenue but also the success of our cost saving We offer a range of broadband services, delivered over copper and initiatives which focused on labour productivity and supplier bre with speeds of up to 8 Mb s ADSL, up to 20Mb s ADSL2 management.
and up to 40Mb s and up to 100 Mb s over bre.
At 31 March 2010, The above factors contributed to an 11% increase in adjusted our up to 20Mb s service, based on ADSL2 technology, was EBITDA in 2010, including one-off benets of 55m.
available from exchanges serving 55% of UK premises 2009: 40%.
Depreciation and amortisation increased by 8% to 459m due to In January 2010, we introduced Wholesale Broadband Connect Fibre, higher value and shorter-lived assets being brought into use in recent a wholesale variant of BTs bre-based broadband service tailored to years.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 12% to 1,391m in 2010.
Capital expenditure decreased by 11% to 417m in 2010, due to Content distribution network improved procurement and management of capital expenditure.
We are introducing a content distribution network in 2011 that will Operating cash ow increased by 54% to 1,640m.
This reects help our CP customers manage the rapidly rising volume of video the higher EBITDA, improved customer cash collections and lower content that is being downloaded over xed and broadband capital expenditure.
Our network will make this trafc more cost efficient for CPs to manage and will enable a range of new business models for BT Wholesale digital content.
Business overview BT Wholesale provides products and solutions to CPs in the UK and Capacity and call-based products worldwide.
It meets the wide-ranging needs of more than 1,000 CPs We continue to sell a wide range of capacity and call-based products in the UK, as well as worldwide through a working relationship with and services, including regulated and new, non-regulated ones.
As Global Telecoms Markets, the wholesale arm of BT Global Services.
we refresh our core portfolio with next generation replacements, we We provide our customers with access to BTs platforms, skills and will, over time, migrate these services to our IP network platform, technology, making BTs investments and economies of scale work for decommissioning parts of our legacy systems.
One of these new their benefit, both in the UK and across the globe.
products is IP Exchange, BT Wholesales global IP interoperability We provide communications services and partially or fully platform that allows CPs to manage traditional and IP voice calls, on a managed solutions for customers ranging from mobile and xed line single gateway, regardless of whether the calls are from mobile or operators to internet services providers, broadcast organisations and xed networks.
10 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Report of the Directors Business review Financial performance Openreach a 2010 2009 Business overview m m Openreach was created in 2006 and is responsible for the crucial first Revenue 4,450 4,658 mile of the UK telecommunications network the copper wires and Internal revenue 1,227 1,228 bre connecting homes and businesses to their local telephone External revenue 3,223 3,430 exchange via xed line local and backhaul connections.
It offers all Net operating costs 3,171 3,381 Openreach CP customers currently more than 480, including other Adjusted EBITDA 1,279 1,277 BT lines of business fair, equal and open access to its networks.
Depreciation and amortisation 680 686 Openreach operates in a competitive environment both from other providers of xed network capacity and substitution into the Adjusted operating profit 599 591 mobile market, and many of our products prices are covered by Capital expenditure 325 435 regulation.
Our performance is inuenced by economic conditions, as Operating cash ow 844 824 recessionary periods increase the risk of business failure and loss of a Restated.
See page 47. line rental, and low activity in the housing market reduces churn and hence connections.
In prior years, poor weather had a significant In 2010 revenue declined by 4% to 4,450m.
The overall decrease impact on the network increasing faults, but following improvements principally reects reductions in transit revenue, largely driven by the in sealing the network, it is now only affected by severe weather decline in mobile termination rates, which has no impact on EBITDA.
Excluding transit, revenue declined by 1% compared with 2009.
Our 19,000 eld engineers work on behalf of all CPs, enabling 2010 2009a them to provide their customers with a range of services from m m analogue telephone lines to complex networked IT services.
Products and services To meet our customers requirements with a greater degree of Transit, conveyance and WLR 1,521 1,828 exibility and efficiency, an agreement was reached with the CWU to Managed network services 715 518 introduce more exible working hours, effective from April 2010.
Broadband and convergence 431 482 Openreach operates a eet of more than 20,000 vehicles and is Calls and lines 306 385 committed to nding innovative ways to minimise its environmental Other products and services 250 217 impact.
During the year we equipped more than 13,000 vans with satellite location technology that, together with improved business Total external revenue 3,223 3,430 practices, will save time, reduce our carbon footprint and improve our Internal revenue 1,227 1,228 responsiveness to customer needs.
The fuel consumed by BTs 4,450 4,658 commercial eet reduced by 10% compared with 2009. a Restated.
Products and services Transit, conveyance and WLR revenue decreased by 17%.
This decline We offer our customers a range of products that meet their needs has arisen principally as a result of the price impact of mobile from Ethernet to bre-based broadband.
Our products and services termination rate reductions.
are designed to provide our customers with the tools they need to Broadband and convergence revenue decreased by 11% due to meet the increasing demands of their customers today, while helping the continued trend of CPs switching to LLU provided by Openreach.
them to plan their services of the future.
These declines have been partially offset by an increase of 38% in MNS revenue.
Wholesale line rental WLR Calls and lines revenue decreased by 20% reecting lower circuit WLR enables CPs to offer telephony services with their own brand volumes and the substitution impact as customers migrate to and pricing structure over BTs network.
At 31 March 2010, long-term MNS contract arrangements.
Openreach was providing 17.9m WLR lines to other BT lines of Other products and services revenue increased by 15%.
business, and 6m to other CPs.
Of the lines provided to other CPs, Net operating costs decreased by 6%, to 3,171m, partly due to 4.8m were WLR analogue lines up 6% on 2009 and 1.2m were WLR the decline in revenue and lower mobile termination rates, but also digital channels up 11% on 2009. due to the impact of our cost efficiency programmes principally through reductions in our total labour resource.
Local loop unbundling LLU Adjusted EBITDA remained broadly at at 1,279m, reecting the LLU enables CPs to use the lines connecting BT exchanges to end delivery of our cost efficiency programmes and growth in managed users premises, and to install their own equipment in those network services revenue offsetting the decline in traditional exchanges.
In 2009, 84% of UK premises were served by an products such as broadband.
At 31 March 2010, there were 14.8m Depreciation and amortisation decreased by 1% to 680m.
unbundled lines in the UK, up 7% on the previous year.
Of these, Adjusted operating profit increased by 1% due to the slight 8.2m were for other BT lines of business to support broadband improvement in EBITDA and the lower level of depreciation and services and 6.6m were for other CPs.
More than 30 CPs are providing amortisation.
unbundled services, and Openreach is fullling more than 94,000 Capital expenditure decreased 25% to 325m in 2010, reecting LLU orders a week.
improved procurement terms and more stringent investment return criteria.
Ethernet Operating cash ow increased by 2% to 844m in 2010 due Openreachs Ethernet products offer CPs a wide choice of highprimarily to the reduction in capital expenditure, although this was bandwidth circuits to build or extend their customers data networks.
partially offset by the negative impact of intra-group VAT settlements We made major reductions in the connection and rental charges of with Openreach.
services in our Ethernet portfolio in February 2009 and January Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 11 2010, which have improved the access and backhaul markets in the Operating cash ow increased by 8% in 2010 to 1,167m due to the UK, and support the growth of data-intensive applications.
lower capital expenditure and the beneficial impact of intra-group VAT settlements with BT Wholesale.
Fibre-based broadband access Pilots of our bre-based broadband access service in Whitchurch, BT Innovate & Design South Glamorgan and Muswell Hill, North London proved the BT Innovate & Design is responsible for the innovation, design, effectiveness of FTTC solutions.
We have also continued trials of FTTP development and delivery of the processes, networks and platforms at Ebbseet to prove the technology in a greeneld location, and on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business and which run BTs have announced further browneld trials at Highams Park in East business.
These are operated and run by BT Operate.
London and Bradwell Abbey in Buckinghamshire for this year.
Mass BT Innovate & Design has an operating model focused on delivery, deployment of FTTC accelerated during 2010.
We aim to make our with strong cost and quality management, which includes the whole bre services available to 4m UK premises by the end of 2010, and to lifecycle of both the network and associated software.
In addition, by be available to at least 40% of UK premises in 2012, with an having the innovation, design and development skills within one expected 25% of these being FTTP and the remainder FTTC.
team we are able to bring innovation closer to the customer, bringing new ideas, products and services to market faster, cheaper and more Financial performance effectively for our customers.
This is supported through the use of 2010 2009 global development centres in the UK, US, Europe, India and China m m which improve collaboration, agility and efficiency in network and External revenue 1,211 1,013 software development by bringing together the development teams Revenue from other BT lines of business 3,953 4,218 and customers.
Revenue 5,164 5,231 We continue to reduce our cost base through a combination of Net operating costs 3,204 3,235 cost controls and efficiency measures, whilst improving quality and meeting demand.
In 2010 we reduced our unit costs by 31% through Adjusted EBITDA 1,960 1,996 a quality delivery process, which focuses on re-use, consolidation and Depreciation and amortisation 856 778 standardisation, the metrication of software which can be used to Adjusted operating profit 1,104 1,218 guide decisions about development, and supplier management.
Capital expenditure 907 951 Operating cash ow 1,167 1,079 BT Operate BT Operate manages BTs IT and network infrastructure platforms as a In 2010 revenue decreased by 1%.
The 2010 decrease reects lower single converged operation, providing a seamless IT infrastructure.
BT Ethernet prices, a reduced WLR base due to the depressed housing Operate also runs parts of other CPs networks on behalf of the market and the difficult economic conditions.
These factors were customer-facing lines of business, and is responsible for delivery of partially offset by volume growth in Ethernet and LLU which now the products and services BT sells to its customers.
forms 26% of our revenue, with WLR at 56%, reecting the change in We set and manage security policy and processes throughout BT, mix compared with 2009.
This was due to the growth in the enabling us to meet the requirements of our customers, both in the broadband market and the ongoing migration of end customers from UK and globally.
BT to other CPs as well as targeted offers to the CP community to help BT Operate also manages the groups energy policy which aims to stimulate and drive demand for our products.
reduce consumption, establish security of supply, and reduce carbon External revenue was 1,211m in 2010, an increase of 20% and emissions.
The renewal of our green energy contract until 2014 reecting the continuing migration of end customers to other CPs means we continue to meet approximately 40% of our electricity WLR and in particular, LLU rentals.
External revenue represented needs in the UK from renewable sources, and almost 60% from 23% of our revenue in 2010 compared with 19% in 2009. combined heat and power generation.
We are investigating how to Revenue from other BT lines of business decreased by 6% to use more renewable electricity or new technologies, such as 3,953m in 2010.
These reductions reect the shift of WLR and LLU developing our own wind farms.
volumes from other BT lines of business to external CPs and the effect In 2010 we achieved a significant reduction in our total labour of lower Ethernet prices, partially offset by volume increases.
resource, more efficient business operations and improved supply Net operating costs decreased by 1% in 2010.
We also continued to reduce the number of IT have been achieved through a decrease in total labour costs, process incidents across the network as well as improving its reliability.
improvements and efficiencies and a reduction in the number of We have reduced the number of IT incidents across the network by faults due to the improved quality of our network and lower levels of 33% over the last two years.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased by 2% as the reduction in revenue was OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY only partially offset by cost savings.
Introduction Depreciation and amortisation increased by 10% to 856m We have a long track record of acting responsibly.
We have longreecting the higher value and shorter-lived software assets being standing policies on equal opportunities, fair pay and anti-bullying.
brought into use in 2010 and also our ongoing investment in systems Our environmental management system dates back to 1991, and to support new products and services.
during 2010 we celebrated the tenth anniversary of our ISO14001 Adjusted operating profit decreased by 9% to 1,104m in 2010 certication.
We have been providing solutions for our older and less due principally to the higher depreciation and amortisation.
Capital expenditure decreased by 5% in 2010 to 907m, with the Our statement of business practice, The Way We Work, provides investment in our super-fast bre access network being more than the principles to which all our people are expected to comply, and is offset by lower own work capitalised following the delivery of championed by senior executives throughout BT.
We want to make a difference to some of the global challenges society faces, and are focusing our activities on three key areas: 12 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Report of the Directors Business review climate change: developing sustainable customer solutions: and strategies.
The group risk register has been reviewed by the BT Group enabling skills for an inclusive society.
plc Operating Committee before being reviewed and approved by the This year we invested money, time and in-kind support worth BT Group plc Board.
The principal risks below are all identied on the 26.4m supporting responsible and sustainable business activities, group risk register.
meeting our commitment to invest at least 1% of group pre-tax The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in profits.
conjunction with the risk management process, the forward-looking Our target for 2011 is to maintain a minimum investment of 1% of statements for this document and the Cautionary statement underlying pre-tax profit in our community.
regarding forward-looking statements on page 104.
Our corporate responsibility CR risks Competitive activity We quantify the most significant social, environmental and ethical As detailed on page 4, we operate in markets which are characterised risks to BT in our CR risk register.
This is updated twice a year and by high levels of competition.
While there are many factors which reviewed annually.
contribute to the high level of competition the prominent factors We currently have seven CR risks which we monitor and report on, include regulatory intervention which is focused on promoting four of these which are managed by the CR risk forum: competition, technology substitution, market and service Mitigating climate change impacts such as increased costs convergence, customer churn, declining levels of market associated with changing legislation differentiation, declining market growth rates and the emergence of Adapting our business to reduce our exposure to the direct competitors with distinctive and non-replicable sources of impacts of climate change, such as severe weather competitive advantage.
The effect of diversity on employee relations and customer service BT faces a number of challenges in relation to growing revenues.
A Unacceptable supply chain working conditions.
distinct challenge is that our UK voice and connectivity business is a We now manage the following three CR risks at group level: mature business subject to price deation and declining or negative Health and safety risks to employees and the public exposed to BT market growth rates leading to declining revenues, margins and operations cashow.
The net effect is that we increasingly have to look beyond Breach of integrity leading to a loss of trust in BT the UK voice and connectivity market to secure profitable revenue Loss of trust caused by unintended release of private customer growth from adjacent markets, both inside and outside the UK.
This data which is part of our Security and resilience risk see Our risks in turn is dependent on developing strong and advantaged on page 14. competitive positions in attractive product and service markets.
As Each of these seven CR risks has a senior management owner and a well as looking beyond the UK and voice and connectivity market, we mitigation strategy in place.
Aside from the loss of trust caused by also need to deliver major new investments e. g. super-fast unintended release of private customer data, these CR risks are not broadband which will not only help us defend existing revenues but regarded as material in relation to the group, and consequently are also open up new adjacent markets.
These new areas of growth carry not included in Our risks below.
associated risks including high investment in development and launch and might not yield the necessary returns or offset declining Recognition of our contribution revenues in our traditional business.
We have been ranked seventh in the list of 60 top green businesses in Britain in this years Best Green Companies Awards announced by The Global economic and credit market conditions Sunday Times, and won a number of awards for CR, including the Whilst there have been improvements in the UK and global prestigious Queens Award for Enterprise for Sustainable economies during 2010, the level of business activity could be Development and Business in the Communitys Community Mark and impacted by continued economic uncertainty and could lead to a platinum plus recognition.
We have been in the top 5% of our sector reduction in revenue, profitability and cash generation.
In common in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the last nine years.
with many other businesses, our financial performance could also be impacted by increased exposure to the default of customers and OUR RISKS suppliers if economic conditions do not continue to improve.
In Principal risks and uncertainties achieving our goals, we are dependent on a number of partners, In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of risks contractors and suppliers and therefore are at risk of loss of revenue, and uncertainties, not all of which are wholly within our control.
increased cost, delays and possibly associated penalties in the event Although many of the risks and uncertainties inuencing our of their failure.
performance are macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance However, unfavourable economic conditions may arise which of businesses generally, others are particular to our operations.
could impact our ability to generate sufficient cash ow or access This section highlights some of those particular risks and capital markets to enable us to service or repay our indebtedness or uncertainties affecting our business but it is not intended to be an to fund our other liquidity requirements.
We may be required to extensive analysis of all risk and uncertainty affecting our business.
renance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, Some may be unknown to us and others, currently regarded as reduce or delay capital expenditure or seek additional capital.
immaterial, could turn out to be material.
All of them have the Renancing or raising additional nancing may not be available on potential to impact our business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity commercially reasonable terms or at all.
Our inability to continually and capital resources adversely.
generate sufficient cash ow to satisfy our debt service obligations, We have a dened enterprise wide risk management process for or to renance debt on commercially reasonable terms, may identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of the group.
The key features of the risk management process are operations and prospects.
provided in Internal control and risk management on page 28.
The group risk register captures the most significant risks facing the business.
Each risk is assigned a senior management owner responsible for monitoring and evaluating the risk and the mitigation Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 13 Regulatory controls business failure or contract expiry.
Failure to replace the revenue and Some of our activities continue to be subjected to significant price earnings from lost customers could reduce revenue and profitability.
and other regulatory controls which may affect our market share, competitive position and future profitability.
Security and resilience Many of our wholesale xed network activities in the UK are BT is critically dependent on the secure operation and resilience of its subject to significant regulatory controls which are reviewed information systems, networks and data.
The controls regulate, among other things, the prices we Any significant failure or interruption of such data transfer as a may charge for many of our services and the extent to which we have result of factors outside our control could have a material adverse to provide services to other CPs.
In recent years the effect of these effect on the business and our results from operations.
We have a controls has required us to reduce our prices, although in some recent corporate resilience strategy and business continuity plans in place, cases, prices have been allowed to increase in real terms.
We cannot designed to deal with such catastrophic events including, for provide assurance that the regulatory authorities will not increase the example, major terrorist action, industrial action, cyber-attacks or severity of the price controls, extend the services to which controls natural disasters.
A failure to deliver that strategy may lead to a apply or extend the services which we have to provide to other CPs.
reduction in our profitability and there can be no assurance that These controls may adversely affect our market share, our ability to material adverse events will not occur.
compete and our future profitability.
The scale of our business and global nature of our operations Wholesale customers may also raise disputes with Ofcom, seeking means we are required to manage significant volumes of personal lower prices on wholesale services which are not subject to direct and commercially sensitive information.
BT stores and transmits data price control.
for its own purposes and on behalf of customers, all of which needs to be safeguarded from potential exposure, loss or corruption, and Major contracts therefore receives a high level of management attention and security We have a number of complex and high value contracts with measures.
Any material failure could signicantly damage our customers.
The profitability of these contracts is subject to a number reputation and could lead to a loss of revenues, cancellation of of factors including: variation in cost and achievement of cost contracts, penalties and additional costs being incurred.
reductions anticipated in the contract pricing both in scale and time: delays in delivery or achieving agreed milestones owing to factors Pensions either within or outside of our control: changes in customers We have a significant funding obligation to a dened benefit pension requirements, budgets, strategies or businesses: the performance of scheme.
our suppliers and other factors.
Any of these factors could make a Declining investment returns, longer life expectancy and contract less profitable or even loss making.
regulatory changes may result in the cost of funding BTs dened In 2009 a failure to achieve anticipated cost savings made a benefit pension scheme BTPS becoming a significant burden on our number of our major contracts less profitable or even loss making, financial resources.
Contract and financial reviews were The triennial funding valuation of the BTPS at 31 December 2008 undertaken in BT Global Services, and resulted in our taking a more and associated recovery plan has been agreed with the Trustee.
cautious view of the recognition of expected and future cost Under this prudent funding valuation basis the deficit is 9bn.
BT and efficiencies, revenues and other changes in underlying assumptions the Trustee have agreed a 17 year recovery plan with the first three and estimates, particularly in light of the economic outlook, resulting years payments being 525m.
The payment in 2013 will be 583m, in contract and financial review charges of 1,639m being then increasing by 3% per annum.
Whilst the valuation and the recovery plan have been agreed with As detailed on page 7, during 2010 we have taken actions and the Trustee, they are currently under review by the Pensions implemented a number of improvements to signicantly enhance Regulator.
However, the Pensions Regulators initial view is that they contract management, risk management and performance.
have substantial concerns with certain features of the agreement.
The Independent review teams provide additional assurance on our most Pensions Regulator has indicated it will discuss its position with us significant contracts.
Whilst progress has been made, and no once they have completed their review.
Accordingly, as matters significant charges in relation to major contracts were incurred in stand, it is uncertain as to whether the Pensions Regulator will take 2010, there is still a risk that further contract charges could arise in any further action.
This uncertainty is outside of our control.
the future due to the impact of any of the factors identied above.
The results of future scheme valuations and associated funding The degree of risk increases generally in proportion to the scope requirements will be impacted by the future performance of and life of the contract and is typically higher in the early stages.
investment markets, interest and ination rates and the general trend Some customer contracts require significant investment in the early towards longer life expectancy, as well as regulatory changes, all of stages, which is expected to be recovered over the life of the which are outside our control.
Major contracts often involve the implementation of new systems and communications networks, transformation of legacy OTHER INFORMATION networks and the development of new technologies.
The Regulation recoverability of these capital costs may be adversely impacted by Innovation in communications markets continues at a high level, delays or failure to meet milestones.
Substantial performance risk driven by consumer needs and new technology.
Convergence is exists in these contracts, and some or all elements of performance maturing, and consumers routinely buy bundles of xed, mobile, depend upon successful completion of the transition, development, broadband and TV services.
In July 2009, we announced our transformation and deployment phases.
Failure to manage and meet ambitious plans for bre-based broadband deployment, underpinned our commitments under these contracts, as well as changes in by significant investments.
The UK communications market is highly customers requirements, budgets, strategies or businesses, during competitive and as a result, in 2010 many of our retail services were the contract term, may lead to a reduction in our expected and future deregulated see significant market power designations on page revenue, profitability and cash generation.
Regulatory evolution needs to keep pace with these customers due to merger or acquisition, change of customer strategy, developments, allowing further deregulation where effective 14 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Report of the Directors Business review competition exists, encouraging investment and rewarding riskappropriate remedies that may include price controls.
In 2010 Ofcom taking in new markets such as bre-based broadband, and ensuring completed its market review of xed narrowband retail services in that any new regulation is only applied where necessary.
relation to the supply of consumer and business telephone lines and voice calls.
Ofcom concluded that BT no longer had SMP in these Regulation in the UK markets except for digital exchange lines, although Ofcom is Electronic communications regulation in the UK is conducted within a currently consulting on a market review charge control for ISDN30 framework set out in various EU directives, regulations and lines, which resulted in BT having greater freedom to package and recommendations.
The framework was recently reviewed price those services as we choose.
Ofcom also completed its review of and amended directives are expected to be implemented by late May wholesale narrowband services markets and concluded that BT 2011 in the UK and other EU member states.
retained SMP in certain dened markets for example, the provision of wholesale exchange lines, call origination and interconnect links Ofcom but not in local-to-tandem conveyance where BTs activities became Ofcom was set up under the Ofce of Communications Act 2002 to deregulated.
BT is also deemed to have SMP in other markets such as provide a single, seamless approach to regulating the entire UK wholesale leased lines.
In the 2010 calendar year, Ofcom will conduct communications market.
Its principal duties are to further the market reviews, which are currently underway, of the Wholesale Local interests of citizens in relation to communications matters, and to Access WLA and the Wholesale Broadband Access WBA markets, further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where covering products such as LLU and IPStream.
Ofcoms WLA proposals appropriate by promoting competition.
include new obligations on BT to provide a bre-based Virtual Ofcom regulation takes the form of sets of conditions laid down Unbundled Local Access VULA product and an obligation to share under the Communications Act 2003 Communications Act, and our ducts and poles for bre-based broadband purposes.
Openreach directions under these conditions.
Some conditions apply to all already offers a product that we believe meets the requirements for providers of electronic communications networks and services: others VULA and we have said BT will share its ducts and poles with other apply to individual providers, which Ofcom has designated as CPs.
In the WBA market, Ofcom proposes to increase the size of the universal service providers or having significant market power SMP mainly urban deregulated geographic market, and to introduce price in a particular market.
regulation in the remainder of the country with a price control to cover rural areas.
Conditions applying to all providers Although these general conditions are concerned mainly with SMP charge controls consumer protection, they also include requirements relating to As a result of SMP designations, the charges we can make for a general access and interconnection: standards: emergency planning: number of wholesale services are subject to regulatory controls which the payment of administrative charges: the provision of information are designed to ensure that our charges are reasonably derived from to Ofcom: and numbering.
A separate condition regulates the costs, plus an appropriate return on capital employed.
These include: provision of premium rate services.
The Electronic Communications network charge controls NCC on wholesale interconnect services Code applies to all CPs authorised to carry out streetworks and similar we operate under interconnection agreements with most other activities for network provision.
It requires CPs with apparatus on or CPs in the public highway to identify potential liabilities and, where partial private circuits PPC charge controls applying to certain appropriate, to make appropriate financial provision to cover any wholesale leased lines that BT provides to other network operators damage caused by work they carry out, and for the removal of their certain wholesale Ethernet access and backhaul services networks in the event of liquidation or bankruptcy.
BT has provided LLU and WLR the required certicate of compliance to Ofcom in accordance with Regulatory decisions by Ofcom are liable to appeal.
Other CPs are this requirement.
currently appealing Ofcom decisions on wholesale leased lines, LLU and WLR charge controls.
Conditions applying to BT Ofcom is currently consulting on market reviews charge controls Universal service obligations USO are dened in an order issued by for ISDN30 and WBA see significant market power designations the Secretary of State.
BT is the designated supplier of universal above.
service for the UK, excluding the Hull area where Kingston In December 2009, Ofcom published a consultation document Communications is the designated provider.
Our primary obligation is about how BTs costs of providing pensions benets should be treated to ensure that basic xed line services are available at an affordable in regulatory charges.
Ofcom is expected to consult further later in price to all citizens and consumers in the UK.
Other conditions relate the 2010 calendar year, and conclude its review towards the end of to payphones and social needs schemes.
Ofcom would then look to implement any revised approach We understand that the UK Governments plans for the digital in setting charge controls moving forward.
economy, prior to the May 2010 election, are expected to create a fund of 200m that will be available via competitive tender to BTs Undertakings bidders in order to deliver the Governments universal service In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of telecommunications, commitment USC to provide a 2Mb s broadband connection.
This is we proposed a number of legally-binding Undertakings under the not part of BTs USO, but BT is likely to be one of the providers Enterprise Act 2002 Enterprise Act.
These Undertakings, which eligible to bid for such funds.
The procurement process for allocation included the creation of Openreach, were accepted by Ofcom and of the funds for the USC is currently expected to be administered by a came into force in September 2005.
The Undertakings are intended new Government body known as Broadband Delivery UK.
to deliver clarity and certainty to the UK telecommunications industry about the way BT will provide upstream regulated products to significant market power designations support effective and fair competition in related downstream Ofcom is also required by EU directives to review relevant markets markets.
Ofcom acknowledges that BTs delivery of the Undertakings regularly, and determine whether any CP has SMP in those markets.
has enabled deregulation in more competitive downstream markets.
Where Ofcom nds that a provider has SMP, it must impose The Undertakings do need to evolve in light of market developments Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 15 and variations have been agreed in 2010 to assist delivery of breLegal proceedings based broadband, and to reschedule timescales for the delivery of We do not believe that there is any single current court action that operational systems separation and the migration of BTs installed would have a material adverse effect on the financial position or base to the same, equivalent base as other CPs.
However the aggregate volume and value of legal actions to which we are a party has increased signicantly Business Rates during 2010.
The European Commission formally investigated the way the UK There have been criminal proceedings in Italy against 21 Government set the rates payable on BTs infrastructure and those defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with the paid by Kingston Communications, and whether or not the UK Italian UMTS universal mobile telecommunication system auction in Government complied with European Community Treaty rules on 2000.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated in that state aid.
The Commission concluded in October 2006 that no state auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the former BT employee was found aid had been granted.
The Commissions decision was appealed.
not culpable of the fraud charge brought by the Rome Public Judgement on the appeal has not yet been given but we continue to Prosecutor.
All the other defendants were also acquitted.
The Public believe that any allegation of state aid is groundless and that the Prosecutor has appealed the courts decision.
The appeal was appeal will not succeed.
unsuccessful and no damages follow.
Regulation outside the UK BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in which we operate and this can have a material impact on our business.
European Union Communications regulation in each EU country is conducted within the regulatory framework determined by EU directives, regulations and recommendations.
The manner and speed with which the existing directives have been implemented vary from country to country.
National regulators are working together in the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications to introduce greater harmonisation in their approach to the assessment of SMP and the imposition of appropriate remedies.
BT does not have USO outside the UK, although in certain member states we may be required to contribute towards an industry fund to pay for the cost of meeting such obligations.
The rest of the world The vast majority of the communications markets in which we operate around the world are subject to regulation.
The degree to which these markets are liberalised varies widely, and our ability to compete is severely constrained, to a greater or lesser degree, in many countries.
We continue to press incumbent operators and their national regulatory authorities around the world including in the EU for cost-related non discriminatory wholesale access to their networks, where appropriate, and for advance notice of any changes to their network design or technology which would have an impact on our ability to serve our customers.
Competition law In addition to communications industry-specic regulation, BT is subject to the Competition Act 1998 Competition Act in the UK and to EU competition law.
Our relationship with HM Government We can be required by law to do certain things and provide certain services for the UK Government.
For example, under the Communications Act, we and others can be required to make and implement plans for the provision or restoration of services in connection with disasters.
Additionally, under the Civil Contingencies Act 2004, the UK Government can impose obligations on us and others at times of emergency and in connection with civil contingency planning.
Also, the Secretary of State can require us to take certain actions in the interest of national security and international relations.
16 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Report of the Directors Business review
