Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting the annual report of the Company and its subsidiaries to the shareholders, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings has remained housebuilding in the UK.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in this directors report, which commences on page 6 and which provides a full review of the Groups performance and prospects.
Information on the risks to which the performance of the business is subject, including key social, environmental and ethical risks, is also provided in the business review on pages 26 to 27.
These risks are regularly reviewed by the Board and controls and mitigation processes put in place as explained in the report on corporate governance.
Key financial performance indicators include pre tax profit, earnings per share, operating margin, return on capital employed, consented and strategic land bank, volume of legal completions and net assets.
Other key performance indicators are also monitored including those relating to health and safety, customer satisfaction and corporate social responsibility.
These are set out in the business review.
Results and dividends The Group made a profit after taxation of 14.0 million 2009: 3.5 million.
No interim dividend was paid relating to 2010 2009: Nil.
The Board has advised a return to dividends in 2011 and proposes to pay, subject to shareholder approval at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, a full year dividend of 3.0p 2009: nil net per share in respect of the 2010 financial year on 27 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 April 2011.
On this basis, the total dividend for 2010 will be 3.0p 2009: nil.
It is intended that a scrip dividend alternative will be offered to allow shareholders to elect to receive the whole or part of their dividend in new ordinary shares.
Directors Details of the directors are shown on page 32.
Lesley MacDonagh retired at the Annual General Meeting held on 6 May 2010 and Neil Cooper, the former Group Finance Director, left the Company on the same date.
Details of directors emoluments, pension rights, service contracts and directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are included in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 42 to 50.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting, to be held on Wednesday 11 May 2011, and being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
Jonathan Stanley Hill, appointed on 23 August 2010, offers himself for re-appointment in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Powers of the directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The directors have been authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares and these powers may be exercised under authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual General Meeting.
The rules in relation to the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Share capital At the date of this report the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 50 pence.
As at 11 March 2011, 133,218,325 ordinary shares of 50 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
In particular, subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may determine.
Shareholders are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, to appoint corporate representatives.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Further details regarding voting, including the deadlines for voting, at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting at the back of this annual report and accounts.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other shareholder rights if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information within the prescribed period.
Shareholders may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
None of the ordinary shares of the Company, including those held by the Companys share schemes, carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Employees participating in the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan may direct the trustee to exercise voting rights on their behalf at any general meeting.
The instrument of transfer of a certificated share may be in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may refuse to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any other place decided by the Board accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using the relevant system and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of the relevant system and with UK legislation.
There are no other limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
