Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report Board of Directors recognises that investing in equities is together with the audited financial statements of the a long term process and that the Companys returns to Company for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The shareholders will vary from year to year.
Unlike Company was incorporated in England and Wales as a equivalent open-ended investment vehicles, the public limited company on 16 August 1991 under the investment trust structure offers investors a portfolio name of Legistshelfco No.
112 PLC with the registered which may be geared.
The Board takes the view number 2638812.
The name was changed to Fidelity that long term returns can be enhanced by the use European Values PLC in September 1991. of gearing.
BUSINESS REVIEW Investment policy This section of the Directors Report provides a review of The Company invests principally in continental European the Companys business and describes the principal risks securities with a view to achieving long term capital and uncertainties it faces.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the Business of the Company fundamental value available in individual situations.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual and was approved as such by HM Revenue & Customs countries and industry sectors is monitored, the portfolio under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes is not structured primarily on a country or industrial Act 1988 now Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act weightings basis, although certain investment restrictions 2010 for the accounting period ended 31 December apply in an attempt to diversify risk.
HM Revenue & Customs has granted provisional approval for the accounting period ended 31 December A maximum of 20% of gross assets may be invested in 2009, although this approval may be subject to review companies of countries which are not included in the should there be any subsequent enquiry under benchmark Index the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Directors are of of which a maximum of 5% of gross assets may be the opinion that, since that date, the Company has invested in other companies of non-European countries conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the which have some European exposure or connection.
conditions for continued approval as an investment trust The geographical and sector breakdown of the under that Section.
portfolio compared with the Index may be found at pages 7, 9 and 10.
A maximum of 10% of the Companys The Company is registered as an investment company as gross assets may be invested in the aggregate of: a defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and securities not listed on a recognised stock exchange and operates as such.
It is not a close company and has no b holdings in which the interest of the Company employees.
amounts to 20% or more of the equity capital of any one listed company.
A maximum of 5% of the Companys Objective, strategy and principal activity gross assets may be held in unquoted securities in The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital aggregate at any one time.
growth from the stockmarkets of continental Europe.
The Company aims to achieve this with an actively managed The maximum level of gross gearing is an amount of portfolio of investments, consisting primarily of twice the adjusted capital and reserves pursuant to the continental European securities.
As part of this strategy Companys Articles of Association.
In normal the Board has delegated the management of the circumstances a gearing level of below 20% of net assets portfolio and other services.
The principal activity is to will be maintained.
Details of the levels of gearing at the pursue the objective through operating as an investment year end may be found on page 2.
The Board reserves trust company.
Both the objective strategy and principal the right to lend stock and or assets of up to 10% of the activity have remained unchanged throughout the year Companys assets.
The Board also reserves the right to ended 31 December 2010. hedge the portfolio.
The Board has not used this right during the life of the Company.
The Board has reviewed the summary of the years activities and is in agreement with the indications of A maximum of 15% of the Companys total assets may likely future developments and the factors likely to affect be invested in the securities of other investment these which are given in the Chairmans Statement on companies including listed investment trusts which pages 3 to 5 and in the Managers Review on pages 6 themselves do not have stated investment policies to and 7. invest no more than 15% of their total assets in other listed investment companies.
As at 31 December 2010 The Board believes that individuals and institutions there were no such holdings in the Companys portfolio choose to invest in the Company because the stock 2009: same.
selection approach adopted by the Portfolio Manager is considered to be well suited to achieving its objective.
The current investment approach is detailed in the Although income has been received by way of dividend Managers Review on pages 6 and 7. payments the emphasis is placed on capital growth.
The Page 16 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors Report The Full Portfolio Listing as at 31 December 2010 is Performance detailed on pages 52 and 53.
Over the period the net asset value of the Company rose by 7.1% compared with the increase by the Companys Fidelitys investment management philosophy, benchmark Index of 5.1% on a total return basis.
style and process The portfolio is primarily built on a stock by stock basis KPIs following the Portfolio Managers assessment of the The key performance indicators KPIs used to fundamental value available in individual securities, with determine the progress and performance of the geographical weightings largely the result of stock Company over time and which are comparable to those selection, rather than macro-economic considerations.
reported by other investment trusts are set out below.
The charts and graphs provided in this Annual Report The first three KPIs, namely NAV, share price and should therefore be read with this in mind.
The benchmark, are concerned with change, whereas the portfolios geographical weightings may vary significantly remaining KPIs deal with absolute amounts.
from the weightings within its benchmark Index and the concentration on the identification of fundamental value Year ended Three years in individual stocks within continental Europe may result 31 Dec ended 31 in investments made against prevalent trends and local 2010 2009 Dec 2010 conventions.
The value investor seeks to be amongst the %%% first of his peers to recognise the potential in individual 1 NAV 7.1 11.3 -1.7 stocks and hence returns are only properly assessed on 2 the basis of long term results.
The Manager invests in Share price -1.3 21.3 -11.2 securities of companies which are considered by the FTSE World Europe Manager to have fundamental value.
Securities of ex UK Index 5.1 19.1 -5.6 interest may fall under the following categories: Discount to NAV 16.7 9.3 n a an industry anomaly: Actual gearing ratio 4.6 1.0 n a Total expense ratio 0.91 0.92 n a a turnaround or recovery situation within a certain company: All figures are calculated on a total return basis ie, cum income 1 Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines unrecognised growth relative to the price of the 2 Calculated on a bid to bid basis with income reinvested shares: Source: Fidelity, Datastream and Fundamental Data as at 31 December 2010 an undervalued asset situation: Past performance is not a guide to future returns the potential for some merger and acquisition activity.
The Summary of Performance graphs on pages 12 and 13 indicate the relative historical performance of the Corporate activism Company against its benchmark Index since launch and The Board believes that the Company should, where the discount to NAV over that period.
Some of the appropriate, take an active interest in the affairs of the Companys KPIs are considered to be beyond the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise Boards control, however they are measures of the its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there Companys absolute and relative performance and the are any particularly controversial issues which are then Board monitors them regularly.
Indices and ratios which referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for assist in managing performance and compliance are also corporate activism and shareholder voting to Fidelity.
reviewed, including the total expense ratio.
Expenses are These activities are reviewed annually.
considered regularly at Board meetings and this enables the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and Premium discount management: enhancing consider any expenditure outside that of its normal shareholder value operations.
In addition to the KPIs set out above the The Board seeks authority from shareholders each year Board regularly reviews the Companys performance to issue new shares at a premium or repurchase shares against its peer group of investment trusts.
The principal for cancellation at a discount to the net asset value.
It will risks and uncertainties section on pages 18 and 19 only use these authorities to enhance the net asset value includes descriptions of other performance indicators, and to protect or improve the premium discount rating their monitoring and management which are key to the of the shares.
Details of share repurchases may be found business of the Company.
Long term performance is also on page 20 and the Chairmans Statement provides monitored and the Summary of Performance graphs on further information on page 3. pages 12 and 13 show this information.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 17 Directors Report Attribution analysis as market recessions, interest rate movements, The attribution analysis table which follows enables deflation inflation, terrorism and protectionism.
contributions from various sources of income and costs to be determined.
The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect and increase the Companys assets against this background Analysis of change in NAV are core to the Companys continued success.
Other during the year pence per share factors affected by market forces, such as exchange and bond rates, contribute to risks which have to be taken as Starting NAV 1 January 2010 1,269.52 part of the Companys normal business.
Impact of : Risks to which the Company is exposed and which form Index 120.37 part of the market risks category are included in Note 18 Stock selection 25.28 to the financial statements on pages 46 to 51 together with summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
Exchange rate -48.66 These comprise: market price risk comprising other Gearing 5.57 price risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and credit risk.
Share repurchases 6.52 Charges -10.87 The Companys u40,000,000 fixed term loan facility with Lloyds TSB Bank plc was repaid on maturity on 22 June Dividends paid -22.50 2010.
The u65,000,000 fixed term loan facility with Cash and residual -9.45 Barclays Bank PLC and the u25,000,000 revolving credit facility currently nil drawn down with Lloyds TSB Bank Closing NAV 31 December 2010 1,335.78 plc will both mature on 15 December 2011.
The extent to which any loan facilities will be retained or renewed Sources: Fidelity and Datastream will be kept under the most careful scrutiny.
Cash may be Past performance is not a guide to future returns held against the loans held by the Company to reduce Investments were valued at 693,547,000 as at the level of net gearing.
Shareholders funds amounted to opportunities for investment arise, these funds are 660,542,000 resulting in a net asset value per share of readily available.
A day to day overdraft facility can be 1,335.78p.
Changes to investments are shown in Note 9 used if required.
Limited finance from counterparties to the financial statements on page 42. including suppliers has not impacted the Company to date, however there are alternative suppliers available in Principal risks and uncertainties the market place should the need arise.
Due to the uncertain economic climate, shareholders will have greater concerns about the way their investments The Company relies on a number of main are managed.
The Board confirms that there is an counterparties, namely the Manager, Registrar and ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Custodian.
The Manager is the member of a privately managing the principal risks which fall under the general owned group of companies on which a regular report is headings of strategic, operational and management.
The Manager, Registrar and With the assistance of Fidelitys internal audit team the Custodian are subject to regular audits by Fidelitys Board has constructed a risk matrix which identifies the internal controls team and the counterparties own key risks to the Company under these broad headings.
internal controls reports are received by the Board and The Board reviews and agrees policies, which have any concerns investigated.
remained unchanged since the beginning of the accounting period, for managing risks and summaries of 2.
Performance risk these are set out below.
The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative to the market requires the application The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in of risk.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection accordance with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised might lead to underperformance of the benchmark Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Management of the risks set out above are identified and graded.
This process, together with is carried out by the Board which, at each Board the policies and procedures for the mitigation of risks, is meeting, considers the asset allocation of the portfolio updated and reviewed regularly in the form of internal and the risk associated with particular countries and controls reports considered by the Audit Committee.
industry sectors within the parameters of the investment objective.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for The key risks identified are: actively monitoring the portfolio selected in accordance with the asset allocation parameters and seeks to 1.
Market risks ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities risk reward profile.
and the principal risks are therefore market related such Page 18 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010
