Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report which reflects the performance of the stock market, the which incorporates the Business Review together with FTSE All-Share Index.
the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 August 2010.
The Company was ACTIVITY incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited The Companys activity is to pursue the objective company on 27 September 1994 under the name of through operating as an investment trust company.
A Fidelity Special Values PLC with the registered review of the years activities and an indication of likely number 2972628. future developments and the factors likely to affect this are given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 ACTIVITIES AND STATUS and in the Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
The The Company carries on business as an investment trust Board supports these views.
and was provisionally approved as such by HM Revenue & Customs under Section 842 of the Income and FIDELITYS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Corporation Taxes Act 1988 now Section 1159 of the PHILOSOPHY, STYLE AND PROCESS Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the accounting period Fidelitys distinctive investment approach is bottom up ended 31 August 2009, although this approval may be stock picking investing in companies on the basis of subject to review should there be any subsequent their underlying strengths, facilitated by extensive enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
Fidelity has over 140 analysts Directors are of the opinion that, since that date, the and research associates with a hands-on approach to Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which knowledge accumulation.
Fidelitys analysts evaluate will satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an companies, meet their management and workforce and investment trust under that Section.
The Company is interpret the effects of international and local events.
registered as an investment company as defined in They contact hundreds of companies every week.
This Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as first hand research is fundamental to Fidelitys ability to such.
It is not a close company and has no employees.
seek the success stories of the future.
Fidelity has over 100 portfolio managers.
Portfolio managers work closely BUSINESS REVIEW with the Fidelity analyst team and also have access to a wide range of research produced by third parties.
INTRODUCTION The Company is required to present a Business SUMMARY REVIEW OF RESULTS FOR 2010 Review, which provides a fair review of the Company As outlined and explained in the Chairmans Statement, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties in the Managers Review and in the financial statements, faced.
It includes an analysis of the performance of the the shareholders net assets increased by 1.3% on a total Company, both during the financial year and the position return basis to 333.8 million having a net asset value at the year end, taking into account its objective, per share of 586.21p.
As a consequence of the income strategy and risks and how these are measured using generated in the portfolio and of the expenses incurred Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
during the year the income available for paying a dividend amounted to 10.74p per share.
The Board is OBJECTIVE & STRATEGY recommending to shareholders a dividend of 10.50p per The primary objective of your Company is to enhance share.
Gross gearing exposure via derivatives at the year shareholder value, achieved through long term capital end was 113% 2009: 106%.
The Company aims to achieve this with an actively managed portfolio of special situation KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs investments, consisting primarily of securities listed Given the identification of the Companys objective or traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As is stated and strategy, the Board has identified KPIs against in the Boards Policies, which precede the Directors which returns can be compared.
Report, the Board considers five years to be the most appropriate time span over which to make assessments.
KPIs However, the Business Review requires an annual The primary objective of enhancing shareholder value is assessment of the Companys progress and so both sets measured by the total returns of the share price: the KPI of KPIs have been provided.
While making money over against which it is compared is the return on a deposit the long term is the most important objective, the Board account at a bank or building society regarded as a low is aware that shareholders invest in the shares of Fidelity risk investment alternative.
The KPIs for the secondary Special Values PLC because FIL Investments International objectives of higher returns than the competition and is the Manager and it therefore also monitors returns the market are the comparisons with their returns.
against those of competing investment trust companies.
There are three components to the returns involved Finally, it is aware that shareholders invest in the in the primary objective of enhancing shareholder value: Companys shares because of the belief that they will the net asset value, dividends and the change in the earn better returns than those of the stock market as a discount premium at which your shares trade to net whole, so returns are also monitored against an index asset value.
Page 20 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors Report The components of the change in the net asset value PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND include the movements in the level of the stock market, RISK MANAGEMENT the contribution of stock selection, gearing, currencies, Due to the current economic climate, shareholders share buybacks share issues, income and costs.
These will have concerns about the direction of some markets.
are analysed by the Board and the relevant KPIs involve The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for comparisons of the net asset value against competing identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks investment trusts and the FTSE All-Share Index the faced by the Company.
The Board, with the assistance of Companys benchmark, shown below.
A further the Manager, has developed a risk matrix which, as part component part of the net asset value that the Directors of the internal control process, identifies the operational monitor is that of the expenses of managing the risks that the Company faces.
The matrix has identified Company.
Those expenses, expressed as a proportion strategic, marketing and business development, of the net asset value known as the total expense ratio investment management, company secretarial, fund or TER are compared with the net asset value returns.
administration and operations and support function The increase decrease in the discount premium is a risks.
The Board reviews and agrees policies, which component of the enhancement of shareholder value have remained broadly unchanged since the beginning and the KPI compares it with that of investment trusts of the accounting period, for managing these risks.
The generally and of competing ones specifically.
process is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Risks are identified SHAREHOLDER TOTAL RETURNS and graded in this process, together with the policies Share price 1 year 5 years and procedures for the mitigation of risks, and are total return return % return % updated and reviewed twice a year in the form of a comprehensive internal controls report considered 1 Fidelity Special Values PLC -2.1 27.7 by the Audit Committee.
The key risks identified 2 Low risk investment 0.6 20.4 within this matrix are: 3 Benchmark 10.6 21.0 External risks 4 Peer group 8.0 9.5 Market risk The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and the principal risks are therefore market related such COMPANY TOTAL RETURNS as market recessions, interest rate movements, Net asset value 1 year 5 years deflation inflation, terrorism and protectionism.
Risks to total return return % return % which the Company is exposed and which form part of the market risks category are included in Note 19 to the 1 Fidelity Special Values PLC 1.3 38.0 financial statements on pages 49 to 53 together with Benchmark 10.6 21.0 summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These comprise: market price risk: foreign currency risk: interest 4 Peer Group 15.0 17.3 rate risk: liquidity risk: counterparty risk and credit risk.
The Companys fixed term, fixed rate loan facility was repaid at the beginning of the year.
The extent to which any loan ADDITIONAL KPIs facilities will be renewed will be kept under the most Discount 2010 2005 careful scrutiny.
Contracts For Difference are currently as at 31 August % % used for gearing purposes.
In addition a day to day overdraft facility can be used if required.
The impact of Fidelity Special Values PLC 9.6 1.9 limited finance from counterparties including suppliers 4 Peer group 12.1 n a has not impacted the Company to date, however there are alternative suppliers available in the market place Total Expense Ratio 2010 2005 should the need arise.
The Company relies on a number % % of main service providers, namely the Manager, Registrar Fidelity Special Values PLC 1.23 1.52 and Custodian.
The Manager is the member of a privately owned group of companies on which a regular report 1 Total return including net dividend reinvested is provided to the Board.
The Manager, Registrar and 2 UK Interbank 3m Bid rate 3 Custodian are subject to regular audits by Fidelitys FTSE All-Share Index 4 AIC UK Growth sector internal audit team and the counterparties own internal controls reports are received by the Board Sources: Fidelity and Datastream as at 31 August 2010 and any concerns investigated.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 21
