ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 24 Business review Divisional performance Results for 2010 Core voice broking Headline Underlying Operating Headline Underlying Revenue growth growth profit growth growth The Group reports a profit m % % % % % from continuing operations EMEA 506 3 7 115 15 12 The Americas 434 3 6 80 5 4 of 333 million before tax, Asia Pacific 96 9 1 n m n m amortisation and impairment of Total 1,036 6 196 6 7 intangibles arising on consolidation Revenue and operating profit from ICAPs core voice broking and exceptional items: this businesses were slightly lower than in 2008 09, when the markets were exceptionally active.
Headline growth benefited from represents a decrease of 5% over the impact of the weakening of pound sterling against the dollar and euro.
This was particularly the case in EMEA.
On a statutory basis, and operating profit in the Americas increased slightly, with an profit from continuing operations improvement in performance in the second half of 2009 10 and profitability in Asia Pacific improved.
We saw some improvement before tax was 247 million, in our core voice broking markets in the last quarter of the financial year as risk tolerance began to return to the market.
a decrease of 13% over the Interest rates prior year: 18 million of post-tax After consecutive years of extremely strong growth and volatility, in 2009 10 the interest rate markets returned to more normal losses have been recorded as and stable trading conditions with lower levels of volatility in the discontinued operations.
Interest rate derivatives volumes increased steadily over the course of 2009 10 despite increasing uncertainty about future regulatory proposals from the US and European governments.
ICAP reports on segments of its business in the same way externally as we manage and report the business internally.
Traditional flow interest rate products, both cash and derivatives, The major segments are the three regions of core voice broking, remained active on both sides of the Atlantic, as high levels of electronic broking, post trade risk and information and new corporate bond issuance around the world partially offset the lower businesses.
New businesses, currently comprising new voice volatility.
Although interest rate swap volumes increased, revenues broking businesses, have been separated out to allow the declined compared with the very strong revenues of 2008 09. appropriate focus given the very substantial investment that This was due to a shift in the traded product mix towards lower has been undertaken.
revenue short date durations, particularly in the Americas.
The majority of ICAPs revenue is non-pound sterling denominated In general risk appetite returned to the markets in the last quarter and has been affected positively by the strengthening of the dollar of 2009 10, with spreads narrowing correspondingly.
There was a against pound sterling.
marked increase in trading activity towards the end of the financial year, particularly in the interest rate options market.
However, this ICAP is active in a broad range of markets and the diversity of increased risk tolerance remains vulnerable to negative news flow, its market coverage is a key strength of the Group.
The revenue as highlighted by the recent European sovereign debt crisis.
and growth rates per market from our continuing operations are given below.
Continuing operations 2010 2009 Revenue Revenue Growth Markets m m % Interest rates 630 678 7 FX 292 245 19 Equities 163 184 11 Emerging markets 141 127 11 Credit 204 192 6 Commodities 175 159 10 Total 1,605 1,585 1 From continuing operations excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
Underlying additionally excludes the impact of FX.
Includes interest rates revenue from our electronic fixed income platform.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 Credit In Asia Pacific, after a subdued year, volumes traded through our In EMEA and the Americas, revenue growth continued to be driven joint venture in China with CFETS China Foreign Exchange Trading 25 by corporate bond trading, offsetting slower activity levels in the System have started to increase, particularly in the fixed income credit default swap CDS market.
Persistent uncertainty about and forward FX businesses.
the implementation and potential impact of proposed regulatory In Latin America, SIF ICAP Chile, our new joint venture, is developing changes, including the introduction of central clearing, continued well.
ICAP continues to seek out opportunities for investment in to weigh on the CDS market.
However this accounts for a relatively Argentina, Chile, Colombia and Ecuador.
small part of ICAPs business.
FX After two very active years, however, the corporate bond market In 2009 10 volatility began to return to the FX market, particularly is also returning to more normal, stable trading conditions.
Turkish lira experienced notably This market benefited from the high levels of corporate bond high turnover and there were also increased volumes traded in the issuance of the past year although reduced volatility and narrower Russian rouble, Hungarian forint, Polish zloty, Gulf Co-operation spreads have slowed growth from the exceptionally high levels of Council currencies and the South African rand.
In both the CDS and corporate bond market the focus has currencies are also developing well, with an upturn in business in shifted from high yield to high grade credit as volatility decreased.
Volumes in emerging market credit products have increased considerably as these markets recover from the financial crisis.
Electronic broking Headline Underlying Commodities growth growth The commodities division generated another year of good revenue m % % growth in both EMEA and the Americas, driven primarily by Revenue 252 11 oil, electricity, natural gas and coal.
This division has generated Operating profit 100 14 13 positive revenue growth in each of the past four years.
Increased confidence in economic recovery led to record trading volumes Electronic broking had a resilient year in terms of revenue and its in natural gas and coal on both sides of the Atlantic.
Electricity operating profit benefited from strong cost control.
volumes were resilient in both North America and continental Europe.
The emissions market had a stable year, although the lack After extraordinary growth followed by a very cautious trading of regulatory consensus at the 2009 United Nations Climate environment post the recent financial crisis, our electronic broking Change Conference and uncertainty about the market post 2012 volumes are returning to more normal levels.
We have seen weighed on volumes in the second half of the year.
recovery in the electronic fixed income markets and, more recently, ICAP continues to develop within the nascent iron ore sector.
Customer activity has increased and Although this business is at a very early stage, iron ore broking traditional market players that were adversely affected by the fits in well with ICAPs existing coal and freight businesses, and dislocations in the markets are re-establishing themselves, joined leverages the extensive research strengths of ICAP Shipping.
The expected changes to the annual benchmark pricing system Average daily electronic broking volumes for the EBS spot FX for iron ore producers, and the move to a spot market, is likely platform and the BrokerTec fixed income platform for the 12 to drive growth in this new marketplace.
Soft commodities also months ended 31 March 2010 were $629.5 billion, down 12% performed well.
However, volumes reached $715.3 billion in March 2010, the highest levels since October In February 2010, ICAP Energy announced the introduction, 2008, with volumes showing a reasonably consistent rise over subject to regulatory approvals, of a combined voice-electronic the past 12 months.
broking service for OTC crude and fuel oil and middle distillate swaps.
ICAP TrueQuote will offer OTC oil swap clients an innovative Fixed income screen-supported voice hybrid service with execution and Fixed income trading on the BrokerTec platform has rebounded  to clearing.
strongly and total average daily volumes in US Treasury products, US repo and EU repo, in the last quarter of 2009 10 were Emerging markets $539 billion, up 33% on the comparative period in 2009.
After two years of difficult conditions, emerging markets are US Treasury products continued to benefit from the high levels benefiting from the increased risk appetite in the global markets of issuance and US repo trading was stable.
In November 2009, and are showing signs of a recovery.
Trading volumes in emerging ICAP entered into a strategic partnership with Gre Tai Securities to market interest rate and FX products have increased considerably provide onshore access to US government bond trading in Taiwan over the past year in both Europe and Latin America, particularly for the first time.
at the short end of the yield curve.
Emerging market CDS are also showing signs of nascent recovery.
From continuing operations excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 26 Business review continued In Europe, EU repo also rebounded very strongly.
We have seen Treasury increased interest in BrokerTec from new market participants MyTreasury, the ICAP money market fund platform, recorded that are applying to be primary dealers or members of a central an increase of 600% in the number of users in the past year.
During 2009 10 electronic European government 190 investor organisations are now able to trade 133 funds bond trading saw an upward trend with spreads tightening and from 24 fund providers on MyTreasury.
In October Finland became the sixth EU Post trade risk and information government to open its trading to competing platforms and, in Headline Underlying March, the Belgian debt agency renewed BrokerTecs term as an growth growth eligible platform for the Belgian market.
Conditions remain positive m % % and continue to support growing interest in electronic trading of Revenue 142 15 5 government bonds.
In addition, new counterparties are applying to become primary dealers in many European government bond Operating profit 69 13 2 markets, which will expand the client base on the BrokerTec platform and increase trading.
ICAPs post trade risk and information division developed well, in terms of both revenue and profit contribution and its range FX of products.
The FX market overall is beginning to experience more volatility In the first full financial year that the division has reported separately and the spot FX market volumes rose in the second half of the it contributed 19% of ICAPs operating profit.
As regulatory and financial year.
Average daily electronic broking volumes on the EBS market demand for systems and methodologies that reduce platform in the last quarter of 2009 10 were $154 billion, an operational and systemic risk in the markets increases, ICAP increase of 3% year-on-year.
In this period, daily volumes on the expects the division to continue to increase its contribution.
EBS platform surpassed $200 billion six times.
Post trade risk The currency volumes traded on the EBS platform continued ICAP introduced a new management structure for post trade risk to become more diverse in the past year, with trading volumes in February 2010.
This new management structure comprises increasing in Commonwealth currencies, particularly the Australian Traiana, TriOptima, ReMatch and Reset, and is headed by ICAPs dollar, and the Mexican peso.
Russia continues to develop, with a Group Chief Operating Officer.
Reporting to him is an executive significant increase in trading in the Russian rouble and in the team that includes the management of each of the ICAP post number of active local and international banks.
EBS Prime has expanded in the past year, with the addition of BNP Paribas and Morgan Stanley, bringing the total of prime Reset, the market leading expert for interest rate reset risk banks to 20.
EBS Prime now accounts for approximately 39% management, accounts for the largest proportion of ICAPs of total EBS volumes.
post trade risk revenue and operating profit.
Reset has seen some slowdown in the second part of the year as short-term interest Non-deliverable forwards NDFs in Asia Pacific have performed rates remain low and stable.
strongly, particularly the Korean, Malaysian and Indian currencies, ReMatch, the bulk risk mitigation service for credit derivative as emerging Asian currencies became more buoyant.
Electronic portfolios, launched in October 2009, is showing initial promise.
broking of NDFs also gained momentum in Latin American ReMatch and Reset are both services designed to help customers currencies.
mitigate non-strategic risk from OTC derivatives.
In December, ICAP launched Kenyan shilling currency pairs on the Traiana, the post trade netting and aggregation service, saw very EBS platform and there has been active trading from both local and strong growth.
It has continued to build out its offering to both the international banks.
buy and sell side, with increased volumes and a growing number of Credit participants on the Harmony Network.
The average daily volume The CDS market continues to wait for the outcome of regulatory processed by Harmony in the past financial year was 263,000 proposals on CDS clearing and electronic trading and, as such, unique trades, up from 120,000 the year before.
Traianas FX joint trading conditions have been quieter.
As the provider of two venture with settlement bank CLS Group began operations in electronic trading solutions for the CDS market in Europe and the January 2010 with eight banks participating.
The service aims US, ICAP Credit and BrokerTec Credit, ICAP expects to benefit in to alleviate the back office operational risk and costs created by the long term from the regulatory proposals currently being automated trading in high velocity markets and reduce systemic debated in Europe and the US.
This joint venture, powered by technology provided by Traiana, reduces costs and processing burdens associated with high velocity trading by up to 90%.
From continuing operation excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 In March 2010 ICAP completed the acquisition of the 61.78% of New businesses the share capital it did not already own in market infrastructure 27 provider TriOptima for an initial cash consideration of Swedish 2010 2009 m m krona SEK 1,288 million 119 million, inclusive of a deferred consideration payment of SEK 72 million 7 million, financed from Revenue 175 170 ICAPs existing debt facilities.
The acquisition of TriOptima at the Operating profit 11 7 end of the financial year will significantly increase the scale of these businesses in 2010 11.
ICAP continues to expand and diversify its business through a series of investments despite a challenging year in some of these TriOptimas services, aimed at reducing risk and helping financial markets.
For 2009 10 the new business segment included the institutions to manage their OTC derivative portfolios more Groups investment in a number of new initiatives which have been efficiently, are performing well.
In 2009, TriOptimas portfolio started or acquired over the past two years.
These include Link reconciliation service triResolve included 5.8 million trades across equity derivatives, Arkhe emerging markets, ICAP Shipping, all asset classes and product structures, representing over 75% LME base metals and Ocean Tomo intellectual property.
of all non-cleared OTC derivative transactions globally.
triReduce, TriOptimas portfolio compression service, eliminated $14.5 trillion This segment is reviewed at the start of each year and comparatives of outstanding credit default swap and $25.8 trillion of interest restated to reflect any reclassifications.
It is anticipated that Link rate swap notional value.
and ICAP Shipping, both of which have been owned by the Group for two years, will be reported in the core voice segment from In October 2009, TriOptima was selected by the International 2010 11.
TriOptima, a business in which the Group has owned a Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA to operate the first 38.22% shareholding for a number of years, will be reported in post central trade repository for interest rate swaps, collecting data trade risk and information in 2010 11. initially from the G-14 financial institutions for all their interest rate swap trades.
This service went live on 15 January 2010 Equity derivatives providing relevant banking supervisors with the information In equity derivatives, the combination of low market volatility, submitted by the G-14 financial institutions.
falling commission rates and increased competition created difficult market conditions.
In spite of these factors, ICAP, through its In February 2010, ICAP also acquired a minority interest in the subsidiary Link, continued to hold its position as the leading equity automated collateral management service provider AcadiaSoft.
derivatives broker and the business continued to make a material Information profit contribution.
We saw some confidence returning to single ICAP information collects data from ICAPs global voice and stock and emerging market equity derivatives towards the end of electronic broking operations covering more than 32 countries the financial year.
from 50 locations in the three key trading zones.
This part of the Emerging markets post trade risk and information division has seen strong revenue ICAPs expansion into Brazil was driven by the structural shift in and profit growth, driven by increased demand for independent the Brazilian financial markets and increased onshore trading of trading data for regulatory purposes and the rise in algorithmic domestic products.
We anticipate that the combination of further trading.
The business packages and distributes real-time, end-ofbank consolidation and the increasing internationalisation of Brazilian day and historical data and has distribution relationships globally banking will lead to more mature markets.
This expansion continues with risk management, analytics and global data vendors.
ICAP has apace and has yielded good initial results in its first year of operation, been a significant driving force behind reference data for key OTC despite showing an operating loss.
In 2009, ICAP launched ICAP FIX, a comprehensive data service providing accurate and verifiable marks across an extensive ICAPs broking activity on BM&F Bovespa has grown in market share range of ICAP market data.
ICAP FIX can be used as reference and and rank, with increasing participation from local and international validation data for product and credit control, risk management market participants expected to drive further growth in this market.
BMF Spot FX and swap volumes in particular have been strong and local bond trading in the region has also exceeded expectations.
ICAPs Bovespa broking continues to increase revenue and market share.
In the Brazilian equity market, we experienced sharp and robust growth, despite very competitive market conditions, resulting in a top 20 market position out of a total competitive field of 90 broking organisations in less than one year.
ICAPs retail offering for Brazilian equities, MYCAP, continues to gain traction, with almost 6,000 new accounts.
Following the acquisition of Arkhe, the leading independent broker in Brazil, in July 2009, Brazil is now ICAPs third largest wholly-owned office with more than 250 brokers and support staff.
T he G-14 financial institutions include Bank of America-Merrill Lynch, Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas, Citi, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs, HSBC Group, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group, Societe Generale, UBS AG, Wachovia Bank, N. A. ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 28 Business review continued Shipping Technology The year was marked by a 40% fall in the Baltic Dry Index, ICAPs various businesses are leaders in the use of technology.
a 50% drop in rates for crude oil tankers and a 61% reduction in During 2009 10 we spent 11% of our revenue on technology and investment in new vessels and, as a result, the business made a our advances are key to the success, efficiency and responsiveness small operating loss.
However, ICAP Shipping is well positioned for of our operating businesses.
the upturn in the shipping cycle.
We believe that China and India will continue to drive demand for shipping services.
This belief was For our electronic broking business, our technology group not only reinforced in the latter part of the financial year, resulting in provides fixed income and FX matching engines but maintains improved brokerage rates.
extensive networks connecting us to our customer firms and to individual traders worldwide.
Base metals ICAPs London Metal Exchange base metals broking business In voice broking, we also make significant investment in technology continued to show steady growth and has expanded during the to support efficient interaction with our customers.
technology for the distribution of prices both internally and to our customers: for hybrid trading systems: for  property processing: for risk management: and for clearing and settlement.
In June 2009 we acquired the transactions division of Ocean Tomo LLC, the leading Intellectual Capital Merchant Banc company Similarly, technology is the basis of our post trade risk and for an initial consideration of $10 million at closing, comprising information business.
Each business has its own independent $5 million in cash and $5 million of restricted ICAP plc shares.
development teams that are at the heart of the diverse range The combination of ICAPs existing successful patent brokerage of services provided to their customers.
business and the Ocean Tomo brand will help us build a leading position in the global patent and intellectual property broking market.
We continue to achieve significant economies of scale by leveraging internally developed and externally acquired trading platforms in a global IT network of more than 800 IT professionals based in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
ICAPs strong technological capability ensures that not only can we meet the needs of our customers but also that we are able to anticipate their requirements in a rapidly changing business and regulatory environment.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 In the past financial year, ICAP estimates its share of its overall Key performance indicators available market, excluding global cash and equities and listed 29 futures and including shipping, post trade risk and information, This section describes the key performance indicators increased to 22%-24% from 21%-23% in the previous year.
By our we use to measure the progress we are making towards estimates, the size of ICAPs total available market was $11 billion.
our financial and strategic goals.
We aim to be the ICAP aims to have a split of operating profit that is evenly leading global intermediary and the leading post trade distributed between its voice broking, electronic broking and post risk provider in our markets, with operating profit that trade risk and information businesses.
In 2009 10, 52% was is evenly distributed between voice broking, electronic derived from voice broking, 29% from electronic broking and broking and post trade risk and information.
In prior 19% from post trade risk and information.
years, ICAP aimed to generate 50% of its profit from Innovation is a key driver of ICAPs success.
In order to measure our electronic broking.
This change of strategic goal reflects performance in this area, we previously measured the percentage the increasing importance of post trade risk and of our revenue derived from businesses acquired or started during information to our business, driven by increased the previous three years.
However, for 2009 10 we measured performance over the past two years to more closely align the regulatory demand for such services.
metric with our new business segment.
As anticipated, in 2009 10 this key performance indicator showed a marked decline from 14% to 10%, as EBS no longer fell into this category.
We expect Share of the global financial market this key performance indicator to decline further in 2010 11 2008 20%-22% despite growth in new business initiatives, as it is anticipated that Link and ICAP Shipping, both of which have been owned by the 2009 21%-23% Group for two years, will be reported in the core voice broking 2010 22%-24% segment from 2010 11.
Operating profit For 2009 10 the key performance indicator for voice revenue per voice broker was flat compared to the previous year as a result of Voice Electronic Post trade risk and information the investment in new businesses, in particular Brazil.
As the new 2008 61% 26% 13% businesses develop we expect to see a material improvement in this performance indicator.
2009 59% 24% 17% 2010 52% 29% 19% Overall staff compensation as a proportion of revenue remained flat at 59%.
The increase in the proportion of non-voice broking New business business reduces this percentage.
However, in 2009 10, this has been offset by the impact of investment in new voice business 2008 17% where, initially, staff compensation is a higher percentage of revenue.
2009 14% ICAP is a network business and, as a provider of some of the 2010 10% worlds leading electronic broking platforms, our investment in technology is crucial to our ability to anticipate and meet our Voice revenue per voice broker customers needs.
To monitor our progress in this area ICAP 2008 498,000 measures the percentage of revenue spent on technology which 2009 542,000 at 11% remained unchanged from the previous year.
2010 544,000 Staff compensation as percentage of revenue 2008 56% 2009 59% 2010 59% Technology spend as a percentage of revenue 2008 12% 2009 11% 2010 11% From continuing operations excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
Percentage of revenue generated from new businesses started or acquired during the preceding two years.
