DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW viewing experience is provided Chief Executive Officers statement by the success of high definition HD, which is now in 30% of our customers homes with penetration more than doubling for the second successive year.
During 2010, weve made HD more accessible to viewers by lowering the upfront cost of the Sky HD box, while further expanding the range of HD channels, including the launch of Europes first HD news channel, Sky News HD.
The growth of HD is an attractive area for us to invest, opening up a high-margin revenue stream continuous improvements to and differentiating our product For several years, Sky has been pursuing a clear the value, quality and range of from the competition.
In and consistent strategy with the goal of our offering.
There are a number October 2010, well move of strands to the way in which forward again with the launch of building a larger and more profitable business.
we are creating more reasons 3D television to residential This is designed to take advantage of two for new customers to consider customers via the existing Sky and adding more value for Sky HD box, following a fundamental trends in todays marketplace, existing customers.
successful launch in commercial which come together to create a significant premises last year.
Well also First, we never forget that the opportunity for our business.
We see that main reason why customers join Sky is for a better choice of TV customers are increasingly willing to pay for a viewing.
That is why we have 9.86m better television experience and they have a continued to invest in standTotal Sky TV customers out content, widening the gap growing appetite to take multiple products between what customers get from free-to-air TV and the from a single, trusted provider.
In both cases, enhanced choice they can enjoy 5,912m Sky is well positioned to benefit.
This year, we have Adjusted Group revenue extended our entertainment Aligning the business with those customer base by almost 1.3 offering on Sky1 with more trends, our strategy is focused million over the last three years, original drama such as Chris on two legs of growth.
First, we we have also sold a total of 8.9 Ryans Strike Back and more 31.1p continue to grow our overall million additional subscription family entertainment such as customer base and, second, we products over the same period.
Adjusted basic earnings per share Got to Dance with Davina are increasingly focused on As customers have rewarded us McCall.
Sky Arts has gone from selling more products to existing with more of their business, it continue to extend distribution strength to strength, reaching customers.
Our approach is has driven increased average of our Sky Player and Mobile TV almost two million viewers a based on the combination of revenue per customer and services, opening up new ways month with a highly distinctive disciplined investment in areas helped to maintain our strong for customers to access our schedule including the return of where customers see value and levels of loyalty and retention.
content through devices like the live theatre to UK television.
a strong focus on operational Sports has had another Despite continuing pressure on efficiency, with the aim of successful year, with Englands household budgets and an A third area of focus is the striking the right balance Ashes victory and more live opportunity created by our uncertain economic outlook, our between growth and returns.
UEFA Champions League, while rate of growth has remained entry into the arena of home Sky Movies brought viewers the Our performance over the last strong during 2010.
Today, one in ground-breaking World War Two 12 months and over the last testament to the importance five customers take all three of drama, The Pacific.
TV, broadband and home few years - gives us confidence that people place on their home that our strategy is working.
entertainment experience: an telephony from us and there is a Second, we look continually for More customers are choosing importance that is now widely significant opportunity for new ways to bring content to further growth.
Our proposition Sky than ever before and they recognised.
But it also reflects life through innovation.
A are choosing to take more from the steps that we have taken is based on value, reliability and powerful example of how us.
Not only have we grown our over a number of years to make simplicity, offering our customers respond to a better 4 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010
