DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued Certain terms used herein are defined in the Glossary of terms Review of the business which appears at the end of this Annual Report.
Introduction The Company, a public company limited by shares and domiciled in the UK, operates under the laws of England and Wales.
It was British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company and its incorporated in England and Wales on 25 April 1988.
Our principal subsidiaries Sky or the Group operate the leading pay executive offices are located at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex, television service in the UK and Ireland as well as broadband and TW7 5QD, England.
A list of our telephony services.
We commission and acquire programming to significant investments is set out in note 31 to the consolidated broadcast on our own channels and supply certain of those financial statements.
channels to cable and other operators for retransmission to their subscribers in the UK and Ireland.
We retail channels both our own and third parties to DTH, Sky Player and Sky Mobile TV customers Content and certain of our own channels to DSL and iPad subscribers We provide customers with a broad range of programming options.
reference in this Annual Report to the number of DTH customers Content is a key factor in generating and maintaining customers.
includes the number of DSL subscribers to whom Sky retails its With respect to the channels we own and operate, we incur content directly.
We also make three of our channels available freesignificant expense to produce and commission original to-air via the UK DTT platform, as part of the branded Freeview programming and to acquire exclusive UK and Ireland television offering.
rights to films, certain sports events and other programming.
We have also acquired the rights to market the television services of At 30 June 2010, there were 9,860,000 DTH customers to our third parties to DTH customers.
television service, and 4,312,000 subscribers of the cable operators to whom we supply certain of our channels, in the UK and Ireland.
Currently, we own, operate, distribute and retail 26 Sky Channels via According to estimates of Ofcom, as at 31 March 2010 the latest our DTH service or 28 including multiplex versions of the Sky data available for the year ended 30 June 2010, there were Channels, but excluding simulcast channels and the business 10,200,000 homes in the UK receiving certain of our channels via channels SkyVenue and the Pub Channel.
We also simulcast most DTT where DTT is the only digital TV platform supplying services of the Sky Channels or programming from some of the Sky Channels see DTT distribution below.
Our total revenue in fiscal 2010 was in high definition.
We currently retail to our DTH customers 160 Sky 5,912 million 2009: 5,359 million, as set out in the table below.
Distributed Channels including multiplex versions of certain channels the Sky Distributed Channels.
We do not own the Sky 2010 2009 Distributed Channels, although we have an equity interest in For the year to 30 June m m certain of them.
In addition to the Sky Distributed Channels, we Retail subscription 4,761 4,177 currently retail to our DTH customers the Sky Box Office service a Wholesale subscription 238 206 pay-per-view service offering movies, sporting events and Advertising 319 308 Easynet 203 202 concerts.
Installation, hardware and service 174 235 The Sky Distributed Channels packages as at 30 June 2010, were as Other 217 231 follows: Revenue 5,912 5,359 3rd Party We operate principally within the UK and Ireland, with activities Package Channels conducted primarily from the UK.
Our revenue principally arises Variety Pack 39 from services provided to retail and wholesale customers within the Style & Culture Pack 23 UK, with the exception of 483 million 2009: 443 million which Childrens Pack 18 arises from services provided in other countries.
Knowledge Pack 24 Music Pack 16 Our fiscal years end on the Sunday nearest to 30 June in each year.
News & Events Pack 10 References in this document to a fiscal year ended 30 June is to ROI Bonus Mix 11 the fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to 30 June.
We Adult Pay-Per Night 12 publish our financial statements in British pounds sterling.
Disney Cinemagic 2 References to US dollars, dollars, US$, $ and are to the MUTV 1 currency of the United States US, references to Euro and Chelsea TV 1 are to the currency of the participating European Union EU ESPN 2 MGM HD 1 countries, and references to pounds sterling, pence and p are to the currency of the UK.
Disney Cinemagic also available as a bonus channel to customers of both Movies Mix packages.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Companies Act 2006 and We retail packages of channels to our DTH customers.
The way Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS they are packaged offers customers a choice of up to six packs of Regulations.
In addition, our consolidated financial statements also both Sky Basic Channels and Sky Distributed Channels see Basic comply with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Channels below.
Each pack contains channels broadly within a Standards Board IASB.
specific genre of interest, to which customers have the option to add a combination of Sky Premium Channels and Premium Sky Distributed Channels see Sky Premium Channels below.
We also 8 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms offer customers the opportunity to subscribe to Sky Premium Sky Movies Family Channels without the need to subscribe to a pack.
Sky Movies Classics Sky Movies Modern Greats We also offer Sky Box Office to all our DTH customers.
On the DTH Sky Movies Drama & Romance platform, the Sky Premium Channels, the Sky Basic Channels other than Sky News, Sky Box Office and the Sky Distributed Channels Pack 2 are encrypted in order to limit access to paying customers only.
Sky Movies Action & Adventure Sky Movies Crime & Thriller Virgin Media VM see Cable distribution UK below carries Sky Movies Sci Fi & Horror versions of the Sky Basic and Sky Premium Channels including Sky Movies Indie multiplex channels on its cable systems.
We have also entered into Sky Movies Comedy agreements with BT and Top Up TV for carriage of Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 on their respective DTT services.
We broadcast The channels principally broadcast the output of recent theatrical versions of three of the Sky Channels, Sky News, Sky Sports News movies and certain library movies in respect of which we are and Sky 3, unencrypted free-to-air via DTT in the UK as part of the typically granted exclusive UK and Ireland rights to broadcast Freeview offering see Distribution DTT Distribution below.
We during the relevant pay television window by major Hollywood and recently announced that Sky Sports News will not be available via independent US and European licensors.
DTT from 23 August 2010 and will be replaced with a multiplex Sky DTH and digital cable customers subscribing to both packs version of Sky 3. receive Sky Movies Premiere, Sky Movies Premiere 1 and Sky Movies We also operate a high definition TV HD service which consists Showcase and in the case of DTH customers only Disney of: Sky1 HD, Sky Arts 1 HD, Sky Arts 2 HD, Sky Real Lives HD, Sky Box Cinemagic without additional charge.
Sky Movies Premiere and Sky Office HD two screens, Sky Sports HD four channels Sky News Movies Premiere 1 a delayed multiplex of Sky Movies Premiere HD and Sky Movies HD ten screens, The Biography Channel HD, exclusively show titles in their first run TV windows after the pay Crime and Investigation Network HD, Discovery HD, Disney per view and VoD windows.
The movies are recent theatrical Cinemagic HD, Eurosport HD, FX HD, History HD, MTVN HD, National releases, including foreign film content.
Sky Movies Premiere Geographic HD, Nat Geo Wild HD, SyFy HD, Hallmark Channel HD, E4 typically broadcasts five new films per week, and two films from the HD, Goodfood HD, MGM HD, ESPN HD, ESPN America HD and Rush previous week every day for seven days.
We have recently announced that we will be launching Sky Each of the Sky Movies channels other than Sky Premiere 1 and Sports News HD in summer 2010.
BBC HD, ITV1 HD, Channel 4 HD, Sky Movies Classic is also broadcast as an HD simulcast and such Five HD and Luxe TV HD are also available on our platform.
HD channels are available to customers to our Sky HD service who In April 2010 Sky launched Sky 3D, Europes first 3D TV channel with are entitled to the corresponding standard definition channel.
Sky a live Premier League match available to over 1,400 pubs.
Later in Movies Classic HD is due to launch in 2010.
Customers who take the calendar year, Sky 3D will offer entertainment and arts content both of the Sky Movies packs and the Sky HD service receive MGM as well as sport and movies to residential customers.
The channel HD without additional charge.
will initially be introduced at no extra cost for customers who Sky Movies Premiere, Sky Movies Showcase, Sky Movies Action and subscribe to Skys top channels and HD pack.
Sky Movies Family is available on Sky Player.
There are also over 500 We hold equity interests in ventures that own certain of the Sky films available for Sky Movies customers to download from Sky Distributed Channels including certain Premium Sky Distributed Player see Digital subscriber line and other fixed line distribution Channels which are operated and distributed in the UK for the Sky Player below.
purposes of this report, any reference to the UK in relation to the Sky Sports channels distribution of the Sky Channels and Sky Distributed Channels The Sky Sports Channels currently are Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, includes the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands namely Sky Sports 3 and Sky Sports 4.
In addition, Sky Sports HD1, Sky Attheraces, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr. Nick Jr. 2, Nicktoons, Sports HD2, Sky Sports HD3 and Sky Sports HD4 are available to Nicktoonsters, National Geographic Channel, National Geographic customers to our Sky HD service who are entitled to the HD, Nat Geo Wild, Nat Geo Wild HD, Chelsea TV, MUTV, Comedy corresponding standard definition channel.
Central, Comedy Central Extra, The History Channel, Military History, Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3 and Sky Sports 4 are all The History Channel HD, Bio, Bio HD, MGM HD and Crime and available online on Sky Player.
Content from those channels is also Investigation Network HD.
We also have a 33.33% equity interest in available on an on-demand basis on Sky Player.
the venture operating the Sky News Australia Channel, which is based in Australia.
In March 2006, the European Commission rendered legally binding the Premier Leagues PL commitment to sell live TV rights in six Premium channels balanced packages, with no one bidder being allowed to buy all six packages.
In February 2009, the Group successfully bid for five of Sky Premium Channels those six available packages each of 23 games of live rights to Sky Movies channels Premier League football in the UK.
These rights run from the Sky Movies features 9 channels of different genres divided into two beginning of the 2010 11 season to the end of the 2012 13 season.
packs: In addition to those PL rights, our programming rights for the Sky Pack 1 Sports channels include exclusive live rights to broadcast, in the UK Sky Movies Comedy and Ireland, a range of sport including a number of football, rugby ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 9 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued customers, some cable and DSL subscribers in the UK and Ireland Review of the business and in the UK on DTT as part of the Freeview offering in the UK continued although the Group has recently announced that from 23 August union, rugby league, cricket, golf and tennis events.
Those events 2010 it will no longer be available by these means.
Sky Sports News include: i broadcast rights to npower Football League matches is available online on Sky Player and on Sky Mobile TV.
We have and the Carling Cup for the 2008 09 to 2011 12 domestic football recently announced that we will be launching Sky Sports News HD seasons: ii broadcast rights to the UEFA Champions League for in summer 2010. three seasons from 2009 10: iii exclusive live rights to Englands Sky Arts 1 and Sky Arts 1 HD provide contemporary arts and music primary domestic cricket matches and all of Englands home test oriented programming and documentaries.
Sky Arts 2 and Sky Arts matches, one day internationals and Twenty20 internationals until 2 HD broadcast classical arts programming including opera, 2013: iv live rights for the International Cricket Tours of India, literature, theatre, cinema and dance.
Both Sky Arts HD channels Australia, South Africa and the West Indies from 2006 to 2012: v a are available to all customers to our HD service.
Individual number of rugby union matches including autumn international programmes are available on an on-demand basis from Sky Player.
matches to 2015 and Guinness Premiership matches to 2013, vi Sky Real Lives and its multiplexes Sky Real Lives 1 and Sky Real exclusive live rights to the Heineken Cup and the Challenge Cup Lives 2 focus on real life human interest stories appealing to a until 2014: vii exclusive rights to all tri-nations Rugby union female audience.
Sky Real Lives is also simulcast in HD and is matches between Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, plus all available on Sky Player.
We have recently announced that from 19 summer tours to these three countries made by England, Scotland, August 2010 Sky Real Lives will no longer be available on any Wales and Ireland and exclusive rights to domestic competitions in platform.
those territories, including the Super 14 Tournament and Currie Cup until December 2015: and viii exclusive live rights to the Ryder Cup, Sky Vegas and SkyPoker.
com are interactive television channels World Golf Championship and the PGA European Tour until 2012: which currently broadcast on a 24-hour a day basis and are and exclusive live rights to the PGA US Tour until 2017. currently available to our DTH customers.
On 4 June 2010, the Group announced that it had agreed to acquire Basic Channels Virgin Media Television VMTV for up to 160 million in cash.
The Sky Basic Channels acquisition completed on 12 July 2010 at which point the Group paid 105 million to VM.
Payment of the remainder is contingent on Sky1 is the general entertainment flagship channel of the Sky the outcome of the UK regulatory process.
The VMTV Channel Channels and is available to our DTH customers and certain DSL portfolio includes Living, Bravo, Challenge, Virgin 1 and Challenge and cable subscribers.
It is targeted primarily at a 16-44 age group Jackpot.
The Group will not licence the Virgin brand and will audience and includes UK-commissioned drama, factual and family announce the new Channel brand for Virgin 1 in due course.
entertainment series and major event programming in addition to first-run acquired US series.
Sky1 is also simulcast in HD.
Basic Sky Distributed Channels Sky2 broadcasts primarily a catch-up schedule of programming Our agreements with the owners of the Sky Distributed Channels from Sky1 and is complemented by Sky1s programming library and typically grant us the exclusive right to offer these channels to some exclusive content and is available to our DTH customers and residential DTH customers in the UK and Ireland.
The owners of the certain DSL and cable subscribers.
Sky3 broadcasts a schedule of Sky Distributed Channels generally sell their own advertising time programming from Sky1s library, content from Sky Real Lives and on their channels, although we act as an advertising sales Sky Arts, as well as some exclusive content.
Sky3 is also currently representative for certain of these channels see Advertising shown on some cable networks in the UK and Ireland and on DTT as below.
part of the Freeview offering in the UK.
Pay-per-view Content from Sky1, Sky2 and Sky3 is also available on an Our Sky Box Office service currently offers our DTH customers on-demand basis from Sky Player.
Sky1 is also simultaneously television premieres of movies and occasional live sports and other streamed to Sky Player.
special events on a pay-per-view basis.
We have acquired certain exclusive DTH rights from Hollywood and independent distributors, Sky News provides national and international news to viewers in which enable us to show their movies on Sky Box Office.
Sky Box the UK, Ireland and across the globe.
The channel is broadcast Office HD offers at least 12 movies each week in high definition on a unencrypted on Astra satellites see Satellites below, and pay-per-view basis.
distributed to viewers via cable and satellite networks in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
It is also currently shown on most Sky Anytime TV cable networks in the UK and Ireland and on DTT as part of the In March 2007, the Group launched Sky Anytime TV, an on-demand Freeview offering in the UK.
Sky News is also available to viewers on service that provides access to selected programmes that are the Sky News website and on Sky Player and Sky Mobile TV.
added to the service overnight with approximately 30 hours of During this fiscal year, the Group launched Sky News HD, a 24 hour content available at any one time.
Viewers have seven days to high definition simulcast of Sky News available to its Sky HD watch programmes or store them on their Sky planner see customers.
Sky News HD is the first HD news channel to air in the description of Sky in DTH Distribution below as newer UK.
programmes are added and older programmes are deleted.
Sky Anytime TV uses additional storage capacity on relevant set-top Sky Sports News provides 24-hour national and international boxes to automatically store selected programmes for viewing onsports news coverage.
It is currently available to our DTH 10 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms demand and the customers personal recording capacity remains parties may apply to the CAT to be added to the list of persons unaffected.
Sky Anytime TV is available to all Sky HD customers and to whom Sky is required to offer its channels.
customers with applicable Sky set-top boxes at no extra charge in In the event that BT, Top Up TV or Virgin Media enter into a accordance with their subscriptions for example, customers who distribution agreement for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2, the subscribe for the Sky Movies channels will have access to certain distributor is required to pay Sky the equivalent of the maximum Sky Movies programming on Sky Anytime TV at no extra charge.
price Sky may charge for the channel s under the WMO Obligation.
The difference between that price and the relevant rate card price will be paid into escrow.
Distribution We distribute our programming services directly to DTH customers At the conclusion of Skys appeal, the CAT will determine the through the packages described above.
Cable subscribers, by distribution of the monies held in escrow.
contrast, contract with cable operators, which in turn acquire the On 1 June 2010, Sky submitted its appeal against Ofcoms decision rights to distribute certain of the Sky Channels from us, which they to impose the WMO Obligations, on the following grounds: combine with other channels from third parties and distribute to Ofcom had no jurisdiction to adopt its decision under its sectoral their subscribers.
powers: DTT viewers must have either an integrated digital television set or Ofcom erred in finding that Sky acted on an incentive to withhold an appropriate set-top box.
supply of the Channels: As at 30 June Ofcom erred in its assessment of the impact and proportionality In thousands 2010 2009 of the WMO Obligations: and Distribution of Sky Channels Ofcom acted unlawfully in imposing the WMO Obligations.
DTH homes 9,860 9,442 1 Cable homes 4,312 4,271 In March 2010 Ofcom stated that the Groups premium movie Total Sky pay homes 14,172 13,713 channels are not, at this stage, to be subject to wholesale must- 2 4 DTT homes 10,200 9,900 offer obligations.
However, Ofcom is currently consulting on a market investigation reference to the Competition Commission 1 The number of cable homes is reported to us by the cable operators.
CC in relation to various markets related to premium movies.
In 2 The DTT homes number consists of the Office of Communications Ofcom its consultation, Ofcom stated that it has concerns about alleged estimate of the number of homes where DTT is the only digital TV platform supplying services and includes Top Up TV DTT homes.
The number of DTT homes restricted exploitation of subscription video-on-demand movies.
for all periods disclosed above is based on Ofcoms Digital Television Update published quarterly in arrears.
Latest data available for the year ended 30 June DTH distribution 2010 is at 31 March 2010.
As at 30 June 2010, the total number of DTH customers in the UK On 31 March 2010, Ofcom published its decision to impose and Ireland was 9,860,000, representing a net increase of 418,000 wholesale must-offer obligations on Sky the WMO Obligations customers in the fiscal year.
DTH churn in total was 10.3% in fiscal for the channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 1 HD and Sky 2010 2009: 10.3%.
We define DTH churn as the number of DTH Sports 2 HD the Channels.
This decision brings to an end customers over a given period who terminate their subscription in Ofcoms three year Pay TV Investigation.
In June 2010, Sky appealed its entirety, net of former customers who reinstate their Ofcoms decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT.
subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a twelve month period of the termination of their original The WMO Obligations require Sky, amongst other things, to offer, on subscription expressed as an annualised percentage of total a wholesale basis, the Channels to third parties which satisfy average customers.
In fiscal 2010, we derived 4,761 million 81% of various minimum qualifying criteria including financial, technical our revenue from DTH subscription revenue 2009: 4,177 million and security criteria.
The WMO Obligation specifies maximum prices that Sky may charge We also offer a number of our services, including our HD service, to for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2.
Those prices will be increased commercial DTH customers in the UK and Ireland under a range of in September 2010 when Sky raises its retail prices under the WMO contracts.
The types of contract, and the channels, which are Obligations, the wholesale price is linked to Skys retail price.
available to any particular commercial customer depend primarily The WMO Obligations do not specify a maximum price for Sky upon the type of business premises within which such customers Sports 1 HD and or Sky Sports 2 HD.
Rather, Sky is required to offer wish to show our services.
Our commercial DTH customers include these channels on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis.
offices, retail outlets, hotels, pubs and clubs.
Each such operator In April 2010, Sky applied to the Competition Appeal Tribunal with a SMATV system is considered to be a single commercial DTH CAT for a suspension of the implementation of the WMO customer regardless of the number of points e. g. rooms in a hotel Obligations.
On 29 April 2010, Skys application was resolved by way within the premises to which the television signal is distributed.
of an agreed Order from the President of the CAT.
The terms of the Digital satellite reception equipment Order result in the suspension of certain aspects of Ofcoms In order to receive our DTH service, customers are required to have decision pending the outcome of Skys substantive appeal.
In a digital satellite system, which includes a satellite dish and LNB summary, the effect of the Order is as follows: low noise block converter, a digital satellite receiver set-top Sky is required to offer Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 to each of box, a smartcard see Technology and Infrastructure below and BT, Top Up TV and Virgin Media for distribution via Digital a remote control.
We have in the past worked closely with selected Terrestrial TV and Virgin Media for distribution via cable.
Other ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 11 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued Sky Talk Review of the business Sky Talk is a telephony service available to all of Skys customers in continued the UK.
Sky Talk Freetime offers customers free evening and manufacturers who have manufactured digital satellite receivers weekend calls of up to an hour to UK landlines and Sky Talk for us based on our specifications.
We announced in January 2010 Unlimited offers customers unlimited calls for up to one hour per that our intentions were to source all our digital satellite receivers call and unlimited calls to certain international destinations.
from our own manufacturing division and supplies from third party Sky Talk customers are also able to take their telephony line rental manufacturers ceased in May 2010.
We work closely with a number directly from Sky.
of selected electronic manufacturing service suppliers.
As with Sky Broadband Unlimited, Sky Talk is now available to During fiscal 2010, we have continued to offer the Sky box and customers who do not take a television service.
These are set-top boxes that we have developed which contain two satellite tuners and an integrated PVR allowing Online programming to be recorded directly on to a hard-disk contained We own and operate a number of established websites including within the box.
This enables DTH customers to watch one live sky.
Skys full-service online satellite programme or a previously recorded programme while portal encompasses e-mail and search to sit alongside simultaneously recording another or to record simultaneously two skysports.
programmes, to pause or rewind live television and to record Sky also extended its commitment to protection of its customers automatically some series of programmes.
Sky customers need a by introducing the Sky Security Centre where users can obtain Sky subscription to use the Sky recording features of the Sky information and products relating to online security and protection.
DTH customers receive the Sky subscription for free.
Sky Active Customers with a Sky HD box receive a number of Channels which We offer our viewers enhanced and interactive services.
We offer depends on the basic package to which they subscribe and the enhanced broadcast applications behind a number of Sky Channels, including Sky Movies Active behind our movie channels, other premium channels they have chosen.
Sky Sports Active behind our sports channels, Sky News Active DTH customers with a Sky subscription and a compatible Sky or behind Sky News and the interactive betting service available Sky HD box can also receive Sky Anytime TV at no extra cost see behind SkyPoker.
We offer interactive services Sky Anytime TV above.
which can be accessed whilst the programming on the channel to We also offer our customers the opportunity to purchase up to which the interactive service relates stays in view.
seven extra Digibox receivers, or three Sky or Sky HD boxes for Sky Betting and Gaming use at the same residence as their original set-top box, which The Group offers a range of betting and gaming services under the enables them to watch different satellite programmes in different Sky Bet, Sky Poker, Sky Vegas and Sky Bingo brands in relation rooms at the same time using just one satellite dish.
to which the Group acts as bookmaker and operator.
The Sky Bet Both digital satellite reception equipment and subscriptions to our fixed odds sports betting service is licensed by the Alderney DTH services are offered by us directly and through a variety of Gambling Control Commission and is available across multiple retailers in both the UK and Ireland.
We also provide installation and platforms, including by means of set-top boxes including Sky and equipment repair services.
Some of the channels offered in Ireland Sky HD, by telephone and on the internet including the mobile differ from those offered in the UK.
Customers can also bet on virtual dog and horse racing on the Sky Vegas channel.
Skys gaming operations, which include Sky Broadband poker, bingo and an online casino are also licensed in Alderney.
The We launched Sky Broadband, our broadband internet access Group also continues to develop a range of popular games service in 2006.
As at 30 June 2010, our broadband network products on the internet at www.
com through the Sky covered approximately 70% of UK households.
In accordance with the licensing For customers covered by our broadband network, two different structure of transactional gambling channels introduced in June broadband products are available: Sky Broadband Everyday Lite: 2009 by Ofcom, the Sky Poker and Sky Vegas channels operate as and Sky Broadband Unlimited.
Both products offer up to 20Mb teleshopping channels rather than as editorial channels.
Sky Bingo download speeds and up to 1.3Mb upload speeds.
Sky Broadband was launched on the internet in December 2007.
The gambling Everyday Lite is limited to a 2GB monthly usage allowance whereas business is certified by the Gambling charity Gamcare and has in Sky Broadband Unlimited has no limit on monthly usage.
place stringent social responsibility measures for the protection of We also offer Sky Broadband Connect to customers in the UK who minors and other vulnerable people.
We take active measures to are not within the coverage area of our broadband network.
Sky prevent persons resident in the US participating in our internet Broadband Connect offers up to 8 Mb download speeds and 40GB gaming and betting services.
Sky Broadband Unlimited is now available to customers who do not take a television service from Sky.
12 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms newly acquired VMtv channels see Basic channels above, on Digital subscriber line DSL and other fixed line VMs cable TV service.
distribution For an incremental wholesale fee, VM will, for the first time, have Sky Player the option of carrying any of Skys basic HD channels, Sky Sports Sky Player is a PC-application that provides access to a range of live HD 1 and Sky Sports HD 2, and all Sky Movies HD channels.
channels, including certain of the Sky Channels, as well as ondemand programmes including Sky Sports, Sky1, Sky News, Sky Arts VM will be able to make available on-demand TV services and Sky Movies programming.
Sky Player is also available on the provided by Sky consisting of content from Skys basic and Xbox and on Fetch TV Smart Boxes.
premium channels, including the newly acquired VMtv channels.
VM will also have access to red button interactive sports Customers can access a range of entertainment, sports and movies coverage and the opportunity to deliver selected standard content with Sky Player via www.
com skyplayer provided they definition programming over the internet.
have a compatible computer and operating system.
This offers downloads and streamed content to any PC or Mac with internet Cable operators are able to offer their subscribers any choice or access.
The cost and availability of content depends on whether combination of the Sky Premium Channels pursuant to the terms the customer is a DTH customer and what DTH subscription on which we supply such channels.
We negotiate separate package they have.
Certain content is available on a pay-per-view commercial arrangements with each cable operator for the carriage and subscription basis.
of the Sky Basic Channels see also Distribution above.
Sky By Wire We have contracts with Smallworld, Newtel and Wightcable for their Sky By Wire refers to television services retailed directly by us over distribution of all of the Sky Basic Channels.
These three regional the fixed line networks of other operators in the UK and Ireland.
cable operators operate the only other major pay TV cable services outside the VM network, covering the Borders region, Jersey and The most significant of these is TalkTalk TV previously Tiscali TV the Isle of Wight respectively.
which distributes pay television services by means of the TalkTalk network.
Under arrangements in respect of TalkTalk TV, we have In addition, several of the Sky Channels are distributed on a number access to the TalkTalk TV platform to enable us to retail certain of of narrowband cable networks.
These are generally smaller cable the Sky Premium Channels to customers who already subscribe to operators that have limited channel capacity when compared with TalkTalk TV services.
In addition, we are provided with certain digital satellite or digital cable and accordingly do not generally customer management, billing and sales agency services in respect carry all of the Sky Channels.
of our customers receiving Sky Premium Channels via its platform.
Ireland In return for these services, we pay a fixed monthly fee per We currently have arrangements in place with UPC Communications subscriber who subscribes to a Sky Premium Channel on the Ireland Limited UPC for the re-transmission of certain of the Sky TalkTalk TV platform.
Channels, including Sky Basic and Sky Premium Channels, to their Mobile networks subscribers.
UPC operates both analogue and digital cable services in Ireland.
Sky Mobile Applications and Sky Mobile TV Sky Mobile TV offers a combination of live linear channels and made In addition, several of the Sky Channels are distributed on a number for mobile streams covering Sports, News and Entertainment of local cable networks in Ireland.
These are generally smaller cable content.
The mobile TV service is available via mobile network operators that have limited channel capacity when compared with operators and also as an application on the iPhone and iPad direct digital satellite or digital cable and accordingly do not generally from Sky.
In addition we offer a range of Sky mobile applications, carry all of the Sky Channels.
Sky to enable remote recording, Sky News for breaking news DTT distribution stories and video, Football and Cricket Score Centres for live scores We currently broadcast versions of three of our channels, Sky News, and commentary.
The applications are available on a range of Sky Sports News and Sky 3, unencrypted free-to-air via DTT in the compatible mobile handsets and across all mobile networks.
These channels are broadcast on a DTT multiplex for which the Cable distribution licence is held by Arqiva Services Limited which owns and operates UK shared wireless communications and broadcast infrastructure.
We VM provides both analogue and digital cable services across its recently announced that Sky Sports News will not be available via cable systems and accounts for the majority of our wholesale DTT from 23 August 2010 and will be replaced with Sky 3 1. revenue, which is revenue derived from the supply of Sky Channels The channels broadcast via DTT by us, together with a number of to UK and Irish cable platforms.
In fiscal 2010, we derived other channels broadcast free-to-air via DTT by other broadcasters, 238 million in subscription fees from cable operators 2009: are marketed to consumers under the generic brand Freeview.
In June and July 2010 the Group entered into agreements providing On 4 June 2010, the Group entered into a number of agreements for the carriage of Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 via DTT on BT providing for the carriage of certain Sky SD and HD Channels on Visions TV service and Top Up TVs service from August 2010.
The agreements became effective on 12 July 2010 and cover the following: Free-to-view satellite proposition We offer purchasers a freesat proposition with access to over 270 New carriage agreements will secure wholesale distribution of free-to-view television and radio channels including regional Skys basic channel line-up, including Sky1 and Sky Arts, and the variants and interactive services, without a monthly subscription ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 13 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued and online, games via both interactive TV and the internet, and Review of the business betting and gaming services via TV, telephone and the internet.
continued Sky competes with a number of communications and fee.
Consumers must purchase a package of digital satellite entertainment companies to secure a supply of content, for reception equipment, including a digital satellite smartcard and audiences for that content, for advertising sales and for customers standard installation, to take advantage of this offering.
The to its DTH and other related services, broadband and telephony purchasers of this proposition are not obliged to subscribe to our services see Principal Risks and Uncertainties below.
This pay television service: however, the proposition offers an easy competitive set can be categorised as follows: upgrade path to our DTH pay television service.
competition from other video distributors and video distribution Emerging forms of distribution channels: We are also evaluating various other possible new means of competition from broadband and telephony fixed and mobile distributing our services other than by DTH, cable, DSL and DTT, providers: such as wireless broadband using Wimax or other similar competition from other television channels: and technologies, mobile TV using technologies such as MediaFLO by competition from sellers of advertising air time.
Qualcomm and IP Wireless TDtv.
In recent years, large parts of telecoms network infrastructure have We also participate actively in the Digital Video Broadcasting been upgraded from circuit-switched networks to packet-switched DVB standardisation group both in the various working groups and at the level of the DVBs Steering Board, which gives us early IP networks.
These IP networks are able to carry video content in addition to voice and other data and, together with the exposure to other emerging technologies.
digitalization of content, have facilitated a convergence between media and telecoms companies.
Seasonality This technical convergence has also increased the propensity for Historically, DTH customer acquisitions have tended to be higher in the first half of our fiscal year, which, as a result of us expensing the companies to offer a bundle of services to customers typically, a triple play of broadband access, telephony and video content as cost of acquiring customers as incurred, has tended to provide a they seek to make efficient use of their networks.
modest weighting of profit towards the second half of the year.
There can be no assurance that these trends will continue in the future.
Technology and infrastructure We control access to some DTH channels through the use of a Marketing conditional access system, VideoGuard see Encryption of digital services below.
The satellite reception equipment provided to The principal types of marketing used by us to promote our DTH customers is owned by them, except for certain aspects such products and services are press including both national and as the smartcard a credit card size plastic card containing a chip regional newspapers and magazines, media inserts, door drops, that provides conditional access functionality, some of the direct mailings, outdoor activity such as billboards and bus backs, software in all set-top boxes and a proportion of the hard drive on-air advertising on both national and regional radio and capacity in some of the Sky PVRs and Sky HD PVRs.
television channels on both promotional and commercial airtime, outbound calling, online advertising on both third party websites The Group completed its acquisition of Amstrad in fiscal 2008. and on sky.
com, advertising in our customer magazine, point of sale Amstrad designs, develops and sells standard definition and high advertising in retail outlets which sell our products and services definition set-top boxes and PVR set-top boxes and has been a and Sky retail stores.
major supplier to the Group for a number of years.
Our set-top boxes use an EPG which has been and continues to be Advertising and sponsorship developed for us by NDS Limited NDS and an operating system In fiscal 2010, we derived 319 million of our revenue from which we license from OpenTV, Inc. OpenTV.
The OpenTV advertising sales and sponsorship 2009: 308 million.
operating system provides a virtual machine interface which enables applications to be authored once, yet still be capable of We sell advertising for all of the Sky Channels as well as for their running on all our different types of DTH set-top box once the multiplexes around all programmes broadcast on these channels.
application is downloaded to the set-top box.
This simplifies the We also act as the advertising sales representative for certain third development of applications for the set-top box and ensures party channels.
We sell advertising time across all of the Sky universal availability of services to all DTH set-top boxes.
The Channels and third party channels represented by us, and tailor operating system in each set-top box is licensed upon payment of distribution according to the target audience an advertiser is trying a per set-top box royalty by the set-top box manufacturer to to reach.
We also sell advertising on-line.
Competition Later this calendar year we will deploy a new operating system into our HD capable set-top boxes.
This operating system has been Sky is a channel provider, a distributor of television services and a developed in conjunction with NDS under the project name Darwin, DTH satellite platform service provider.
Sky also offers broadband and will support the launch of the Sky Anytime VOD service, as and telephony services, as well as a range of other services well as providing a significantly more flexible platform for the including variants of video on demand VOD via the set-top box development of additional new features and functionality.
14 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Group is also required to provide electronic programme guide Encryption of digital services EPG services to broadcasters on fair, reasonable and nonVideoGuard is a conditional access technology which can be used discriminatory terms.
to encrypt and decrypt digital television and audio services.
We use it to control DTH viewers access to encrypted satellite nonSatellites subscription channels and encrypted digital pay and pay-per-view We contract with SES Astra for the majority of capacity on the television and audio channels broadcast on digital satellite for satellite transponders that we use for digital transmissions for reception in the UK and or Ireland.
reception by both DTH viewers and cable operators.
SES Astra is We use the VideoGuard technology and distribute smartcards in 100% owned by SES, a Luxembourg company listed on the the UK and Ireland under an agreement with NDS.
NDS supplies Luxembourg Stock Exchange and Euronext Paris.
We consider that smartcards and undertakes ongoing security development and this arrangement with SES Astra, which is discussed below in other support services in return for the payment of fees by us.
further detail, is essential to the business of the Group within the meaning of section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006.
In conjunction with NDS, we maintain a policy of refining and updating the VideoGuard technology in order to restrict For the transmission of our DTH service, we have contracted for unauthorised DTH reception of our services.
We take appropriate capacity on 31 transponders from SES Astra on SES satellites Astra measures to counter unauthorised reception, including the 2A, 2B and 2D.
We have also contracted, via an agreement with implementation of over-the-air countermeasures altering Arqiva, for capacity on four transponders on the Eurobird satellite, authorised smartcards in a manner which then renders counterfeit which is owned and operated by Eutelsat.
In June 2009, we signed smartcards obsolete and seeking legal remedies, both civil and a long term transponder arrangement with SES Astra which covers criminal, reasonably available to us.
the renewal of the arrangements on 24 of our transponders.
The new transponder agreements have expiry dates between 2019 and The second routine replacement of digital smartcards since our 2025 and thus provide long term security for the platform.
As part digital launch in 1998 was successfully completed earlier this year.
of this arrangement we also entered into an inter-satellite back-up The new smartcards deployed include various additional countertransponder agreement which provides protection for all of our piracy measures which provide us with an improved capability to transponders in the event of transponder or satellite failures.
counteract attempts to hack our system.
In addition to using some of the transponder capacity that we have We seek to work with cable operators in the UK to investigate the contracted to broadcast Sky Channels, some of our transponder use of any cable piracy devices.
We believe that we have suffered a capacity and in some cases all of the capacity on a particular loss of wholesale cable revenue as a result of the availability of transponder is sub-contracted to third parties for the cable piracy devices in relation to both analogue and digital cable transmission of other channels or services, including certain of the television services.
We are unable to quantify this loss, including Sky Distributed Channels.
whether or not such loss is material.
We have not to date invoiced any cable operator in respect of such lost cable revenue and such We have been designated a non pre-emptible customer under lost revenue has not been recognised within our consolidated each of our transponder agreements.
This means that, in the event financial statements.
of satellite or transponder malfunction, our use of these transponders cannot be suspended or terminated by SES Astra or We distribute our channels to cable operators via satellite.
To Eutelsat in favour of another broadcaster with pre-emption rights enable reception of the satellite signal, a smartcard is located at in preference to us.
the site of the cable operators feed into its cable transmission system, permitting decryption of the signal, which the operator in We have also put in place disaster recovery plans in the event that turn distributes to those of its subscribers often reencrypted we experience any significant disruption of our transponder who are authorised and equipped to receive the service.
To date, we have not experienced any such significant disruption.
However, the operation of both the Astra and Eutelsat Encryption of channels retailed by third parties satellites is outside our control and a disruption of transmissions Any potential DTH broadcaster wishing to operate and could have a material adverse effect on our business, depending on independently retail an encrypted television service within the UK the number of transponders affected and the duration of the and Ireland must either acquire an alternative encryption and disruption.
conditional access technology from someone other than us, and Our transponder agreements with SES Astra provide that our rights build its own decoder base capable of receiving transmissions are subject to termination by SES Astra in the event that SES encrypted using that technology, or, in respect of digital services, Astras franchise is withdrawn by the Luxembourg government.
contract with us for conditional access services in respect of access to the installed VideoGuard decoder base.
Capital expenditure programme In addition to providing broadcast conditional access services, both We continue to invest consistently in capital expenditure required for our own DTH offerings and those of third parties, we provide to support our growth strategies.
Total capital expenditure for the digital access control services for interactive services produced by Group was 455 million in 2010.
This included 341 million invested us and others, including using a telephone return path to carry out in core services: information systems infrastructure: broadcast transactions between suppliers and viewers.
These broadcast infrastructure: broadband and telephony infrastructure: new conditional access and access control services are regulated by product development: and investments relating to customer Ofcom and require the Group to provide these services upon service improvements.
In addition, 114 million was invested in new request and on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.
The property and property improvements including 57 million for the ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 15 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued For those third parties to whom we sub-contract transponder Review of the business capacity, we usually have agreements in place to provide uplinking continued facilities as well.
purchase of freehold land adjacent to the Osterley site which was subsequently let back to the current occupant in the short term.
Minority equity investments In November 2007, the Group began construction work on a ITV building to house studios, production and technical facilities as well On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV as office space in Osterley, Middlesex.
The project will be financed plc ITV representing 17.9% of the issued share capital of ITV, at a from existing cash balances for the foreseeable future although the price of 135 pence per share.
The total consideration paid Group may sell and leaseback the property and its freehold in the amounted to 946 million, and was funded by the Groups existing future.
During the period to 30 June 2010, total expenditure on the cash balances and its previously undrawn revolving credit facility.
construction element of this project was 31 million, which is This investment has been subject to an in-depth review by the CC included within the total estimated construction cost of around the outcome of which, Sky appealed to the Court of Appeal CoA.
The Groups capital expenditure in respect of the On 21 January 2010 the CoA delivered its judgment upholding the technical fit out was 14 million, with a further 63 million Secretary of States decision requiring Sky to divest its expected, taking the total technical fit out expenditure to shareholding in ITV to below 7.5%.
The facility is due to enter service in calendar year 2011 On 9 February 2009 the Group announced that it had successfully and will allow the Group to benefit from efficiencies by moving to a placed a shareholding of approximately 10.4% in ITV plc in wholly digital production environment.
accordance with the final undertakings given by Sky to the As is common with capital expenditure projects of this scale, there Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills relating to are risks that they may not be implemented as envisaged: or that Skys investment in ITV.
The placing by Sky of 404,362,095 ITV they may not be completed either within the proposed timescale or shares with Morgan Stanley Securities Limited at 48.50p per ITV budget: or that the anticipated business benefits of the projects share resulted in aggregate consideration of approximately 196 may not be fully achieved.
The Group has confirmed that it intends to retain its residual investment in ITV of just under 7.5% for the medium term The customer management centres and Sky In-Home and to remain a committed shareholder of ITV see also Directors Service Limited Report Financial Review Financial and Operating Review.
Our customer management centres are based in Scotland, Stockport and Leeds.
The centres functions include the handling of Significant agreements orders from customers, the establishment and maintenance of The Companies Act 2006 requires us to disclose the following customer accounts, invoicing and revenue collection, telemarketing significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a and customer service.
These functions permit the centres to play a change of control of the Company: key role in both customer acquisition and customer retention.
We provide customer management services for the Sky Channels and Premier League the Sky Distributed Channels.
We also deliver customer services for In 2009, British Sky Broadcasting Limited a group subsidiary both our own, and certain third party, interactive television entered into an agreement the PL Licence with The Premier services, our telephony services, our broadband services and our League Limited the PL, pursuant to which the Group was video-streaming services.
awarded five of six available packages of live audio-visual rights for The customer management centres also provide nationwide Premier League football the six packages are together the Live installation and servicing of digital satellite reception equipment Packages.
The Group also provides an aftercare The PL will not award all of the Live Packages to a single licensee service to the DTH customer base in relation to digital satellite either on its own or as part of a consortium or through one or reception equipment which is both in, and out of, warranty.
more of its related parties the Single Buyer Rule.
Playout and uplink facilities Pursuant to the PL Licence, the PL can suspend and or terminate Our uplinking facilities, located in southern England, provide all of the rights which are included in, or exercisable as part of, one uplinking capacity for our digital services to the Astra 2A, 2B and 2D of the six available Live Packages in the event that a change of satellites as well as Eutelsats Eurobird 1 satellite.
control of the Company occurs at any time prior to the expiry of the PL Licence which, if it had occurred prior to the award of the Live Our television channels are distributed from two sites with each of the sites providing backup service for the other.
The Osterley Packages to the Group, would have resulted in a breach of the Single Buyer Rule.
sourced channels are fed to the uplink sites using a fibre link, which is backed up by a diversely routed secondary link in the case of any Revolving Credit Facility malfunction in the primary fibre route.
This route passes through The 1 billion revolving credit facility agreement entered into on the other facility so that, in the case of one facility being 3 November 2004 was voluntarily reduced by the Company to unavailable, the services can be uplinked directly from the other 750 million in April 2010.
This facility was cancelled in June 2010. facility.
On 19 June 2009, the Company entered into a 750 million forward starting syndicated credit facility available for drawing from 30 July 16 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms 2010 and expiring on 31 July 2012.
This forward starting facility was the securities carry a non-investment grade rating, results in a amended in June 2010.
The facility was extended by one year to downgrade by one or more notches or a withdrawal of that non- 31 July 2013 and the start date brought forward to June 2010. investment grade rating: or iii where if the securities do not carry a credit rating, the Company does not seek such a rating or is There are two opportunities to request an extension of one further unable to achieve such a rating, provided that in each case, the year to the RCF, at the lenders discretion, with a potential final change of control is cited by the ratings agencies as being the maturity of July 2015. rationale for the downgrade.
The lenders can require any amounts outstanding under the UK broadcasting licences revolving credit facility to be repaid in the event of a change of The Group is party to a number of Ofcom broadcasting licences for control of the Company other than in the event that News Corporation or any subsidiary or holding company thereof acquires the broadcast of the Sky Channels.
The Broadcasting Act 1990 as amended by the Broadcasting Act 1996 and the Communications Act lays down a number of News Corporation voting agreement restrictions on those parties permitted to hold Ofcom On 21 September 2005, the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc. News UK broadcasting licences.
Among those restricted from holding Ofcom Nominees Limited and News Corporation entered into a voting broadcasting licences or from controlling a licensed company are agreement, pursuant to which News UK Nominees Limiteds voting a local authorities, b political bodies, c religious bodies, d any rights at any general meeting are capped at 37.19% the Voting company controlled by any of the previous categories or by their Agreement.
The provisions of the Voting Agreement cease to officers or associates, e advertising agencies or any company apply inter alia, on a change of control of the Company.
controlled by such an agency or in which it holds more than a 5% EMTN bond issue interest.
On 3 April 2007, the Group established a Euro medium term note Licensees are obliged to comply with these ownership restrictions.
programme the EMTN Programme which provides the Group Failure by a licensee to do so either by the licensee becoming a with a standardised documentation platform to allow for senior disqualified person or any change affecting the nature, debt issuance in the Eurobond markets.
The maximum potential characteristics or control of the licensee which would have issuance under the EMTN Programme is 1 billion.
precluded the original grant of the licence may constitute a breach On 14 May 2007, the Company issued Eurobonds consisting of of the licence and, if not rectified, could result in revocation of the licence.
300 million guaranteed notes paying 6.000% interest and maturing on 14 May 2027 the Notes.
The Notes were issued under the Groups EMTN Programme.
Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the Notes, a holder of the Notes has the option to require the Company to redeem or at the Companys option purchase its Notes at its principal amount plus interest for the relevant period if there is a change of control of the Company i which within 90 days of the change of control, if the Notes carry an investment grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal of that rating: or ii where, if the Notes carry a non-investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: or iii where, if the Notes do not carry a credit rating, the Company does not seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided that in each case, the change of control is cited by the ratings agencies as being the rationale for the downgrade.
February 2008 and November 2008 bond issues In February 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$750 million 6.10% senior unsecured notes due 2018.
In November 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$600 million 9.5% senior unsecured notes due 2018.
Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the securities, a holder of the securities has the option to require the Company to redeem or purchase its securities at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up to the date of repurchase, if there is a change of control of the Company i which, if the securities carry an investment grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal of that rating: or ii which, within 90 days of the change of control, if ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 17
