Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CHAIRMANS STATEMENT commercial success and we Over the course of the last year, the continue to expand our work in environment for consumer-facing businesses three key areas: helping to create a healthy environment: has again been characterised by an uncertain opening up the arts to more economic outlook and pressures on household people: and encouraging participation in sport.
Against this challenging backdrop, In June 2010, News Corporation Sky has continued to do well with good where I am an Executive Director - approached the Board progress operationally and a strong financial of Sky with a proposal to acquire performance.
the shares in the Company that it does not already own.
Further details of this matter are included in the Chief Executive Officers statement.
For my part, Our business, based largely on additional products such as I would like to take this direct consumer subscription high definition, broadband and opportunity to reiterate that revenues, has proven to be more telephony.
News Corporation remains a resilient to difficult economic This strong response from committed shareholder in Sky conditions than those media customers, even in more difficult and is fully supportive of its businesses with greater economic times, is a powerful talented management team exposure to cyclical advertising endorsement of Skys approach and exceptional people.
That strength, to business: taking risks, combined with the steps taken In reflection of the Companys investing, innovating and by the management team in continued strong performance, competing vigorously and fairly.
pursuit of disciplined growth the Board proposes a 10% Our belief is that companies and operational efficiency, has increase in the full year dividend that embrace change and open put the Company on course to to 19.40 pence per share.
up more choice in this way emerge from the downturn in a should have the opportunity to This performance is only better position than before.
enjoy the fair rewards of possible as a result of the Customers are choosing Sky in success.
We will continue to commitment and effectiveness greater numbers and for a resist regulatory intervention of all our colleagues at Sky.
On greater variety of products that risks undermining the behalf of the Board, I would like than ever.
At the close of the incentives for investment and to express warm thanks to them year, the Company was nearing the positive benefits enjoyed by for their contribution to the its target of 10 million consumers today.
Company over the last year, just customers: a target that many as we thank all shareholders for Our approach also includes a observers long believed was not their continued support.
strong sense of responsibility in achievable.
Furthermore, our the way we do business.
Making relationships with those a broad contribution to the James Murdoch households are becoming society in which we operate is a Chairman increasingly valuable as more 28 July 2010 key element of durable customers choose to take ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 3
