Business Review chAiRmAns stAtement carbonates performance this year.
In stills we have seen our 2009 launches of Juicy drench and Lipton Ice Tea crystallise into significant growth with much-improved availability for the consumer.
In fact, Juicy drench has been the most successful new soft drink in the GB impulse channel in the last three years.
The challenges faced in Ireland are well-documented and our business has not been immune to the changes taking place there.
Following the acquisition of the business in 2007 we have faced unprecedented economic headwinds and the market we now operate in is very different to the one when we acquired.
In response to this we have taken the decision to write-down the carrying value of the assets through an exceptional noncash charge to the Income Statement and review the ongoing business structure.
Long-term the strength of the brands we acquired and our market position will make a major contribution to the group but in the short-term the outlook is mixed.
As we integrate and invest in our new French business we will deliver the 17m synergies announced in May.
Spring 2011 will see the national launch of Fruit Shoot under the Teisseire brand in France, and our Britvic International division will also launch Teisseire Fruit Shoot in Belgium soon.
The exciting licensing and franchising developments for Fruit Shoot in Australia and the U. S. detailed in the Business Review, are a key component of our international expansion strategy.
Our portfolio in each of our territories is being developed and we have strong innovation plans across GB, Ireland and France in 2011.
We continue to build a compelling portfolio and offer consumers an engaging experience whether it is in a pub, onthe-go or buying in-store.
2011 seems certain to be another year of consumer and costprice uncertainty but also another year of progress for Britvic.
2010 has been a transformational year for Britvic In the 5 years since flotation we have doubled our earnings per following our acquisition of Fruit Entreprises in may.
share, internationalised the business, diversified into new brands this represents our second major acquisition as a public and we have cemented our relationship with PepsiCo.
These company and our first in mainland Europe.
we look are all substantial achievements, especially as they straddle the forward to developing our business in France and 2011 worst recession in 50 years.
On behalf of the board I would like promises to be an exciting year for our French colleagues.
to thank all of our employees for their passion for the business In our main operating territories of Great Britain GB, and the determination to succeed and I am sure they will France and Ireland the consumer backdrop has continued to continue to do so.
In spite of this we have seen our underlying business generate revenue growth of 5.9% excluding France and the impact of the 53rd week and improve its operating margin by 60bps.
Adjusted exceptional and other items and amortisation earnings per share grew by 18.1% and we are proposing a final dividend of 12p, which will make a full year gerald corbett dividend of 16.7p, an increase of 11.3% on 2009.
Non-Executive Chairman In GB we outperformed the soft drinks market, growing both our stills and, particularly, our carbonates portfolios.
Our relationship with PepsiCo was further strengthened this year with the launch of Mountain Dew Energy, a powerful global brand.
Over the years we have successfully developed this partnership, and we now collaborate with PepsiCo to produce well-known brands such as Pepsi, 7UP, Lipton Ice Tea, Gatorade, V Water as well as Mountain Dew Energy.
This and the launch of the better value 600ml no added sugar pack have been key drivers of the 14 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010
