BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The report of the Chief Executive, Review of Operations and 2010 has been an exciting and successful year for JLT.
We have once again achieved a strong financial performance, Finance Directors Review cover the performance of the Group in notwithstanding challenging trading conditions and the continued more detail.
investment in the business for future growth.
Share buy-back Particularly pleasing has been the impressive organic growth As in previous years, we will be seeking renewal of our standing achieved across the Group and many actions have been taken share buy-back authority at the forthcoming Annual General over the year to enhance our ability to generate profitable and Meeting.
We enter 2011 in very good shape and with long term finance in place to support the next phase of JLT's development.
Corporate Developments As mentioned, the past year has seen a number of important Performance developments for the Group.
Total revenue grew by 21% to 746.3 million, or 14% at constant In July, we announced the expansion of the JLT International rates of exchange, comprising organic growth of 7% and 7% Network in Europe through an exclusive trading agreement with attributable to acquisitions.
three of Europe's leading independent brokers, SIACI Saint Honor in France, GrECo Group in Austria and Ecclesia Gruppe in Underlying profit before tax was 130.1 million, up 24%, while Germany.
reported profit before tax was 119.4 million, up 17%, after net exceptional costs of 10.7 million, mainly attributable to the JLT also acquired a 20% interest in GrECo in addition to its existing business transformation programme and acquisition integration 20% in SIACI.
Ecclesia also holds a 13% shareholding in GrECo.
This is an important development to strengthen the JLT Reported diluted earnings per share have increased by 26% to International Network in Continental and Eastern Europe.
trading agreement encompasses compatible branding and mutual development of all insurance, reinsurance and employee benefits I am pleased to report that the directors have resolved to activities, including shared technology, for the benefit of clients recommend an increased final dividend of 13.7 pence per share for the year to 31st December 2010 which will be paid on 4th May across all our industry sectors.
2011 to shareholders on the register at 8th April 2011.
This brings Within Employee Benefits, the integrations of the acquisitions in the total dividend for the year to 22.5 pence per share, an overall late 2009 and early 2010 of HSBC Actuaries and Consultants and increase for the year of 7%.
iimia Wealth Management have been an outstanding success as is evidenced by the results achieved by our employee benefits business in 2010.
In late 2010, the Group completed the refinancing of its revolving credit facilities and now has committed unsecured long-term bank facilities of some 351 million on competitive terms, with maturities varying between 2015 and 2022.
This gives us a very strong base from which to invest for future growth.
Most recently, in January 2011 we announced the establishment of a new subsidiary presence in Johannesburg, South Africa which we anticipate will be operational by April 2011, subject to regulatory clearance.
JLT's entry into this market underlines its belief in the growth potential of South Africa both domestically and as a hub for the African continent.
Group Board and senior management changes The past year has seen a number of changes to our senior management team.
As I noted in my review last year, Brian Carpenter retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in 2010 but remains with the Group as Chairman of JLT Australia and New Zealand.
Jim Rush and William Nabarro retired from the Board and the Group on 6th August and 31st August respectively.
After more than four years as Group Finance Director, Jim returned with his family to Australia.
He was succeeded, as Group Finance Director, by Simon Mawson, formerly Director of PT Astra 6 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010
