Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended The Company is managed to produce capital growth and not to 30th June 2010. produce any particular level of dividend and it will only pay dividends to the extent necessary to maintain investment trust Business Review status.
Business of the Company The Boards policy is to employ gearing when the Manager The Company carries on business as an investment trust and believes it is appropriate to do so.
The Board regularly reviews was approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment this policy.
Should the Manager decide to employ gearing, the trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and Company will remain invested in the range of 90-120% under Corporation Taxes Act 1988 replaced on 1st April 2010 by normal market conditions.
Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the ended 30th June 2009.
In the opinion of the Directors, the number of investments in the portfolio but it is a relatively Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so that it concentrated portfolio consisting typically of between 60 and should continue to qualify.
The Company will continue to seek 90 investments.
The assets are managed by an investment approval under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 manager based in London who is supported by a 50 strong each year.
Approval for the year ended 30th June 2009 is subject to It should be noted that historically, emerging market review should there be any subsequent enquiry under companies and investments in their shares have shown Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
greater volatility and may be subject to certain political and The Company is an investment company within the meaning of corporate governance risks which are not typically associated Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a with more developed markets and economies.
close company for taxation purposes.
Investment Restrictions and Guidelines A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, and in the various investment limits and restrictions: Investment Managers Report on pages 4 to 6.
As an investment trust, the Company cannot invest more Objective than 15% of its assets in any one investment, at the time of The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from acquisition.
The Company will not invest more than 10% of emerging markets worldwide.
its total assets in any one individual stock excluding investment trusts at the time of acquisition.
Investment Policies and Risk Management In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to No more than 50% of the Companys assets may be manage risk, the Company invests in a well diversified spread invested in any one region.
of countries, industries and companies.
The Company invests No more than an aggregate of 25% of the Companys primarily in quoted securities in emerging stock markets but, assets before deducting borrowings may be invested where necessary or appropriate in the absence of suitable in: i securities not listed on any recognised investment quoted securities, it may invest in unquoted securities.
It may exchange: and ii holdings in which the Companys interest invest in other collective investment schemes, but usually only amounts to 20% or more of the aggregate of the equity where legal restrictions prevent direct investment by capital including any capital having an element of equity foreigners or prudent diversification can best be achieved in of any one listed company other than an investment trust this way.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to achieve and which has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs or maintain approved investment trust status in the UK.
16 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 which would qualify for such approval but for the fact that Key Performance Indicators KPIs it is not listed.
The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of Performance against the benchmark index its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies This is the most important KPI by which performance is and will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in judged.
Information on the Companys performance is companies that themselves may invest more than 15% given in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment of gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
The Company does not normally enter into derivative Performance Relative to Benchmark Index transactions, other than short term forward currency contracts to manage working capital requirements and to Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2000 do so requires prior Board approval.
130 These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any 120 time at its discretion.
110 Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is 100 reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
90 Performance In the year to 30th June 2010, the Company produced a total 80 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 return to Ordinary shareholders of 34.6% and an undiluted Source: Morningstar Datastream.
total return on net assets of 41.1%.
This compares with the JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price.
return on the Companys benchmark index of 35.6%.
At 30th JPMorgan Emerging Markets undiluted net asset value total return.
June 2010, the value of the Companys investment portfolio Benchmark represented by the horizontal line.
including liquidity fund holdings was 625 million.
The Investment Managers Report on pages 4 to 6 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information on Ten Year Performance investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2000 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 350 Gross total return for the year amounted to 191.5 million 300 2009: 62.2 million loss and net total return after deducting 250 management fees, performance fees, other administrative expenses, finance costs and taxation amounted to 200 183.5 million 2009: 67.8 million loss.
Distributable income 150 for the year amounted to 5.1 million 2009: 4.9 million.
100 The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.2p per share 50 payable on 4th November 2010 to holders on the register at 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the close of business on 8th October 2010.
This distribution Source: Morningstar Datastream.
The revenue reserve after transfer JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price.
of the final dividend will amount to 4.0 million 2009: JPMorgan Emerging Markets undiluted net asset value total return.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17 Directors Report continued Performance against the Companys peers Share Capital The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative The Directors have, on behalf of the Company, the authority to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors the both to repurchase shares in the market for cancellation and to performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
issue new shares for cash on behalf of the Company.
Performance attribution No shares were repurchased during the year under review.
The The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to Company did not allot any new shares for cash other than on assess how the Company achieved its performance relative the conversion of Subscription shares.
to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue new shares and the Companys relative performance of the various repurchase shares for cancellation will be put to shareholders components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended 30th June 2010 are given in the Investment Managers The full text of these Resolutions is set out in the Notice of Report on page 5.
Discount to net asset value NAV During the year the Company issued 892,783 Ordinary shares The Board has a share repurchase policy which seeks to for a total consideration of 3,768,000 on the conversion of address imbalances in supply of and demand for the Subscription shares.
Since the year end, following the receipt of Companys shares within the market.
This helps to reduce further conversion requests, a further 3,096,863 Ordinary the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV at shares have been issued for a total consideration of which the Companys shares trade in relation to its peers in 13,071,000. the sector.
In the year to 30th June 2010, the shares traded The Company does not currently hold any shares in Treasury between a discount of 6.5% and 13.3%.
and does not have authority to reissue shares from Treasury at a discount to NAV.
Discount Performance Subscription Shares 0 On 11th June 2009 the Company issued 22,059,783 Subscription shares as a bonus issue to Ordinary shareholders on the basis of 5 one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held.
Each Subscription share confers the right but not the obligation to 10 subscribe for one Ordinary share on any business day during the period from 1st August 2009 to 31st July 2014 both dates 15 inclusive when the rights under the Subscription shares will lapse.
20 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Future exercise prices have been determined as follows: Source: Datastream month end data.
if exercised between 1st August 2010 and 31st July 2012, JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price discount to undiluted net asset value 460 pence: and per Ordinary share.
if exercised between 1st August 2012 and 31st July 2014, Total expense ratio TER 543 pence: The TER represents management fees and all other Further details on the Subscription shares, including the operating expenses, excluding interest, VAT recoverable apportionments for capital gains tax purposes and how they and performance fees payable.
expressed as a percentage may be exercised, can be found on page 61 of this report and of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
The on the Companys website at www.
The Board reviews each year an analysis which shows a comparison of the Companys TER and its main expenses with those of its peers.
18 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Principal Risks Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up an investment trust, the Company must comply with a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
Section 1158 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 2010 These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Section 1158.
Details of the Companys approval are given under Business of the Company on page 16.
Should the Investment Underperformance: An inappropriate Company breach Section 1158, it might lose investment investment strategy, for example asset allocation, the level trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the of gearing or the degree of portfolio risk, could lead to Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
underperformance against the Companys benchmark The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually index and peer companies, resulting in the Companys monitored by JPMAM and the results reported to the Board shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages each month.
The Company must also comply with the these risks by diversification of investments and through provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares a set of investment restrictions and guidelines which are are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing monitored and reported on by the Manager.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM provides the Company and or the Directors being fined or the subject Directors with timely and accurate management of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules information, including performance data and attribution could result in the Companys shares being suspended from analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board monitors the relies on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, and implementation and results of the investment process with its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the the Investment Manager, who attends all Board meetings, Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules.
and reviews data which show statistical measures of the Companys risk profile.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance Political and Economic: Administrative risks, such as the best practice, including information on relations with imposition of restrictions on the free movement of capital.
shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance These risks are discussed by the Board on a regular basis.
Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: A sudden Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs departure of the investment manager or several members accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians of the investment management team could result in a records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of short-term deterioration in investment performance.
The the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board Manager takes steps to reduce the likelihood of such an monitors the services provided by JPMAM and its event by ensuring appropriate succession planning and associates and the key elements designed to provide the adoption of a team based approach, as well as special effective internal control are included within the Internal efforts to retain key personnel.
Control section of the Corporate Governance report on Discount: A disproportionate widening of the discount page 26. relative to the Companys peers could result in loss of value Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount market price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Further policy and has set parameters for the Manager and the details are disclosed in note 21 on pages 49 to 55.
Future Developments Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board The future development of the Company is much dependent holds regular meetings with senior representatives of upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the JPMAM in order to obtain assurance that the Manager light of economic and equity market developments in the continues to demonstrate a high degree of commitment countries in which it invests.
The Investment Manager to its investment trusts business through the provision discusses the outlook in his report on page 6. of significant resources.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 19 Directors Report continued Management of the Company Any performance fee earned in a given year is divided into two categories: that which can be offset offsetable by The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset Management underperformance in future years: and that which cannot UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM, is employed under a contract non-offsetable.
terminable in one years notice unless notice is given as a result of poor investment performance, in which case the contract The non-offsetable fee that can be earned in any one year can be terminated on six months notice.
If the Company is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly total wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance assets less current liabilities for the year.
In a year when the of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
Company produces a negative NAV total return per share, the non-offsetable fees earned in that year are accrued JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank but not paid.
In a year when the Company produces a which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, positive NAV total return per share, the Company will pay dealing and custodian services to the Company.
to the Manager all non-offsetable fees earned in that year The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager and and those accrued from previous years, subject to the confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of restriction below.
the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
In The maximum fee that can be paid to JPMAM in any one arriving at this view, the Board considered the investment year is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly strategy and process of the Investment Manager, noting total assets less current liabilities for the year.
consistent outperformance of the benchmark over the long term, and the quality of support that the Company receives The offsetable fee is uncapped and equal to any fees from JPMAM.
earned in excess of the 0.75% cap.
Until paid i. e. in a year when the NAV total return per share is zero or positive, Management and Performance Fees these fees are capable of being absorbed by any underperformance in a subsequent year.
The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum of the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
The fee is The performance fee calculation restarts at the end of a calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
Investments on which period when outperformance of the benchmark has been JPMAM earns a fee are excluded from the calculation and achieved and a performance fee earned.
At 30th June 2010, a cumulative performance fee of 713,000 In addition the Manager receives a performance fee equivalent has been earned and this amount is immediately payable.
to 10% of any outperformance of the Companys net asset value NAV per share on an undiluted total return basis over Going Concern the Companys benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets The Directors believe that having considered the Companys Free Index with net dividends reinvested, in sterling terms, investment objective see page 16, risk management policies over the period since the last performance fee was earned.
The see pages 49 to 55, capital management policies and performance fee is calculated at the end of the Companys procedures see page 55, the nature of the portfolio and financial year and charged to its capital account in the annual expenditure projections, the Company has adequate resources, financial statements.
However, an estimate is accrued on a an appropriate financial structure and suitable management monthly basis and reflected in the Companys published NAV arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for per share.
For these reasons, they consider that The amount of performance fee earned and paid to the there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going Manager each year is subject to the following conditions: concern basis in preparing the accounts.
20 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Payment Policy the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnities were executed on 27th July 2010 and are currently in force.
It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no abide by those terms.
As at 30th June 2010, the Company had cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
no outstanding trade creditors 2009: none.
Disclosure of information to Auditors Directors In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the Company at the time when this report was approved: year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant share capital, are given below: audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of 1 30th June 2010 1st July 2009 which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and Ordinary Subscription Ordinary Subscription b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought Directors Shares Shares Shares Shares to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the David Gamble 3,781 756 3,781 756 Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Anatole Kaletsky 4,203 840 4,203 840 Nigel Kenny The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Percy Mistry accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Alan Saunders 5,000 1,000 5,000 1,000 Valentine Powell and Roy Reynolds retired from the Board on Section 992 Companies Act 2006 30th October 2009.
The following disclosures are made in accordance with Since the year end, Alan Saunders has exercised his Section 992 Companies Act 2006.
Subscription shares to acquire a further 1,000 Ordinary shares.
Capital Structure In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting front cover of this report.
will be David Gamble and Alan Saunders.
Both Directors, being Voting Rights in the Companys shares eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Nomination Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the Committee, having considered their qualifications, date of this report are given in note 15 to the Notice of Meeting performance and contribution to the Board and its committees, on page 60. confirms that each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the Board Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues recommends to shareholders that they be re-elected.
Information on environmental matters, social and community issues is set out on page 27.
The Company has no employees.
Director Indemnification and Insurance Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the At the date of this report, the following had declared a Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 21 Directors Report continued Number of i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory Ordinary Subscription voting 1 pre-emption rights resolutions 7 and 8 Shareholders sharessharesrights % The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to Lazard Asset Management LLC 20,500,403 3,863,581 24,363,984 18.4 issue up to 5,714,669 new Ordinary shares for cash up to an 2,3 Chase Nominees 8,569,069 8,569,069 7.8 aggregate nominal amount of 1,428,667 such amount being City of London Investment equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital Management Company 7,076,607 7,076,607 6.4 excluding Treasury shares as at the last practicable date Sarasin & Partners LLP 6,337,873 6,337,873 4.9 before the publication of this document.
This authority will Royal Skandia 6,089,708 6,089,708 5.3 expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2011 Legal & General Management 4,533,336 4,533,336 4.0 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
1 Assumes that all the Subscription shares which are considered Financial Instruments with similar economic effect to Qualifying Financial Instruments held have been It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new exercised.
shares or to sell Treasury shares to participants purchasing 2 Held on behalf of JPMAM Investment Account, ISA and SIPP participants.
shares through the JPMorgan savings products and also to 3 Non-beneficial.
other investors when the Directors consider that it is in the best The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only made Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, they powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and administrative expenses, other than the management fee the Companies Act 2006. which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for in the Company: no special rights with regard to control investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
attached to securities: no agreements between holders of The Company currently does not hold any shares in the capital securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: of the Company in Treasury.
The full text of the resolutions is no agreements which the Company is party to that affect its set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 58. control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation loss of office.
resolution 9 The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys Independent Auditors issued Ordinary share capital and up to 14.99% of the Companys issued Subscription shares, granted by  LLP have expressed their willingness shareholders at the 2009 AGM will expire on 29th October to continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a 2014, unless renewed prior to that time.
The Directors consider resolution proposing their reappointment and authorising the that the renewing of the authority is in the interests of Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year shareholders as a whole, as in the case of the Ordinary shares, will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
the repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying NAV enhances the NAV of the remaining Ordinary shares.
Annual General Meeting Resolution 9 gives the Company authority to repurchase its NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR own issued Ordinary shares and Subscription shares in the IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The you should take, you should seek your own personal financial authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other to a maximum of: i 17,132,578 Ordinary shares: and financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and ii 2,708,713 Subscription shares, representing approximately Markets Act 2000.
14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary shares and issued Resolutions relating to the following items of special business Subscription shares respectively, as at 27th September 2010 will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this AGM : document.
The authority also sets minimum and maximum prices.
22 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
