Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended review, the number of investments ranged between 31st March 2010. approximately 100 to 160.
To gain the appropriate exposure, the Investment Managers are permitted to invest in pooled Business Review funds.
JPMAM is responsible for management of the Companys assets.
On a day-to-day basis the assets are Business of the Company managed by two investment managers based in London, The Company carries on business as an investment trust and supported by a 40 strong European equity team.
was approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and It should be noted that the Company invests in smaller Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31st March companies which tend to be more volatile than larger 2009.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has companies and the Companys shares should therefore be subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue to regarded as greater than average risk.
The Company will continue to seek approval under Investment Restrictions and Guidelines Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing each year.
various investment limits and restrictions: Approval for the year ended 31st March 2009 is subject to As an investment trust, the Company cannot invest more review should there be any subsequent enquiry under than 15% of its assets in any one investment, at the time of Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Company will not invest more than 12.5% The Company is an investment company within the meaning of of its total assets in any one individual stock at the time of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a acquisition.
close company for taxation purposes.
The Company does not normally invest in unquoted A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in investments and to do so requires prior Board approval.
the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4, and in the No more than 25% of the Companys assets may be Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 9. invested in the aggregate of i securities not listed on a Objective recognised exchange: and ii holdings in which the The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from Company has 20% or more of the issued equities.
It is smaller European companies excluding the UK.
unlikely that the Company would invest in companies that fall into either of these categories and did not do so in the Investment Policies and Risk Management year under review.
In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to manage risk, the Company invests in a diversified portfolio of In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing smaller companies in Europe, excluding the UK.
The Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of its investment universe is defined at the time of purchase by the gross assets in other UK listed investment companies and countries and market capitalisation range of the constituents of will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in the benchmark index which, at the end of March 2010 companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of consisted of 1,000 companies with a market value of between gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
59 million and 2.5 billion across 15 countries.
The Board has set a normal gearing range of 80-120% The Company manages liquidity and borrowings to increase invested.
potential sterling returns to shareholders.
The Company The Company does not normally enter into derivative borrows in Euros in order to hedge the currency risk in respect transactions and to do so requires prior Board approval.
of the geared portion of the portfolio.
These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any The investment policy emphasises capital growth rather than time at its discretion.
income and shareholders should not therefore expect a dividend.
Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
number of investments in the portfolio but in the year under JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 19 Directors Report continued Performance Ten Year Performance In the year to 31st March 2010, the Company produced a total Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st March 2000 return to shareholders of 59.8% and a total return on net 260 assets of 57.7%.
This compares with the return on the Companys benchmark index of 75.2%.
As at 31st March 220 2010 the value of the Companys investment portfolio was 180 429.6 million.
The Investment Managers Report on pages 5 140 to 9 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information on investment activity within the 100 Companys portfolio.
60 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 20 Gross total return for the year amounted to 160.6 million 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2009: 111.6 million loss and net return after deducting the Source: Morningstar HSBC.
management fee, other administrative expenses, finance JPMorgan European Fledgeling Share price total return.
costs and taxation amounted to 154.4 million 2009: JPMorgan European Fledgeling Net asset value total return.
Net revenue for the year amounted to Benchmark.
The Directors have declared a dividend of 3.0p 2009: nil per share.
This dividend will Performance against the Companys peers cost 1,375,000 and the revenue reserve after allowing for The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative the dividend will amount to 375,000. to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors the performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and Performance attribution assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess how the Company achieved its performance relative Performance against the benchmark to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the This is the most important KPI by which performance is Companys relative performance of the various judged.
Information on the Companys performance is components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
given in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended Managers Report.
31st March 2010 are given in the Investment Managers Report on page 6.
Performance Relative to Benchmark Index Discount to net asset value NAV Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st March 2000 The Board has for several years operated a share 110 repurchase programme which seeks to address imbalances 100 in supply and demand for the Companys shares within the 90 market and thereby reduce the volatility and absolute level 80 of the discount to NAV at which the Companys shares trade.
In the year to 31st March 2010, the discount with 70 debt at par value ranged between 11.5% and 23.4%, with 60 the daily average 17.5%.
More information on the Boards 50 share buy back policy is given in the Chairmans Statement.
40 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 The Board also has the ability to purchase shares into Treasury and to issue them at a later date at a narrower discount.
Further details on Treasury shares can be found in the JPMorgan European Fledgeling Share price total return.
Chairmans Statement on page 2 and in this Directors Report JPMorgan European Fledgeling Net asset value total return.
The benchmark index is represented by the grey horizontal line.
20 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Discount Performance Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment 5 strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of 0 gearing, may lead to under-performance against the 5 Companys benchmark Index and peer companies, 10 resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider 15 discount.
The Board manages these risks by diversification of investments through its investment restrictions and 20 guidelines which are monitored and reported by the 25 Manager.
JPMAM provides the Directors with timely and 30 accurate management information, including performance 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 data and attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity Source: Datastream month end data.
The Board monitors the JPMorgan European Fledgeling Discount.
implementation and results of the investment process with the Investment Managers, who attend all Board meetings, Total expense ratio TER and review data which show statistical measures of the The TER is an expression of the Companys management Companys risk profile.
The Investment Managers employ fees and all other operating expenses, excluding interest, the Companys gearing, within a strategic range set by the expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening Board.
The Board holds a separate meeting devoted to and closing net assets.
The TER for the year ended strategy each year.
The Board reviews each year an analysis which shows a comparison of Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the the Companys TER and its main expenses with those of its future prices of the Companys investments.
the potential loss that the Company might suffer through holding investments in the face of negative market Share Capital movements.
The Board monitors asset allocation, stock The Company has authority to issue new shares, to repurchase selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis and has shares into Treasury and to repurchase shares for cancellation.
set investment restrictions and guidelines, which are During the year the Company repurchased a total of 1,263,547 monitored and reported on by JPMAM.
The Board monitors shares of 25p into Treasury for a total consideration of the implementation and results of the investment process 8,580,000 and cancelled 1,628,670 shares purchased in with the Manager.
previous years and held in Treasury.
Since the year end, the Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as Company has purchased a further 126,367 shares into Treasury an investment trust, the Company must comply with for a total consideration of 854,000.
Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 No shares have been repurchased for cancellation during the Section 842.
Details of the Companys approval are given year or since the year end until the date of this report.
under Business of the Company above.
Were the Company to breach Section 842, it might lose investment trust status The Company did not issue any new shares during the year or and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys since the Companys year end until the date of this report.
portfolio could be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Resolutions to renew the authority to issue new shares, Section 842 qualification criteria are continually monitored repurchase shares and to sell shares from Treasury at a by JPMAM and the results reported to the Board each discount to NAV will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions Annual General Meeting.
The full text of these resolutions are of the Companies Act and, since its shares are listed on the set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 55 and 56.
London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company and or Principal Risks the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could result risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 21 Directors Report continued in the Companys shares being suspended from listing against the benchmark over the long term and the quality of which in turn would breach Section 842.
The Board relies the support that the Company receives from JPMAM.
on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM to ensure compliance with the Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Management Fee Rules.
The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.3% of the value Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of the Companys market capitalisation and is calculated and of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance paid monthly in arrears.
An adjustment is made to exclude best practice, including information on relations with from the calculation investments in funds on which JPMAM shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance charges a management fee.
Going Concern Operational: Loss of key staff by JPMAM, such as the Investment Managers, could affect the performance of the The Directors believe that having considered the Companys Company.
Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs accounting, investment objective see page 19, risk management policies dealing or payments systems or the custodians records see pages 46 to 52, capital management policies and could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the procedures see page 53, the nature of the portfolio and Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board expenditure projections, the Company has adequate resources, monitors the services provided by JPMAM and its an appropriate financial structure and suitable management associates and the key elements designed to provide arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for effective internal control are included with the Internal the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they consider that Control section of the Corporate Governance report on there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going pages 27 to 28. concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include Payment Policy market price risk, interest rate risk, liability risk and credit risk.
Further details are disclosed in note 20 on pages 46 to It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all 52. business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on Future Developments which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to Clearly, the future development of the Company is much abide by those terms.
As at 31st March 2010, the Company had dependent upon the success of the Companys investment no outstanding trade creditors 2009: none.
strategy in the light of economic and equity market developments.
The Investment Managers discuss the outlook Directors in their report on page 9.
The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the Management of the Company year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys shares are shown below.
The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is employed under a contract 31st March 1st April which can be terminated on six months notice, without 2010 2009 penalty.
If the Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of remuneration is payable by way Elisabeth Airey 23,538 18,538 of compensation.
Anthony Davidson 5,011 4,011 Paul Manduca 5,000 1,000 JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank Federico Marescotti 1,222 1,222 which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, Michael Wrobel 6,000 5,000 dealing and custodian services to the Company.
The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager and There were no changes to the Board of Directors during the confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of year and up to the date of signing the accounts.
the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
In No changes in the above holdings have been recorded as at the arriving at this view, the Board considered the investment date of this report.
strategy and process of the Manager, noting performance 22 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, no Number of Directors are required to retire by rotation at the forthcoming Shareholders voting rights % Annual General Meeting.
Having served as a Director for more 1,2 Chase Nominees Limited 4,955,206 10.5 than nine years, Elisabeth Airey stands for annual re-election, Lazard Asset Management LLC 3,315,970 7.0 in accordance with corporate governance best practice.
Being eligible, she offers herself for re-election by shareholders.
National Grid UK Pension Scheme 2,852,879 6.1 1607 Capital Partners, LLC 2,795,273 5.9 An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which JPMorgan Asset Management UK Ltd 2,430,225 5.2 insures the Directors of the Company against certain liabilities Legal & General Investment Management 1,877,614 4.0 arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against East Riding of Yorkshire Council 1,600,000 3.4 fraudulent or dishonest actions.
1 As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Held on behalf of JPMAM Investment Account, ISA and SIPP participants.
2 Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying Non-beneficial.
third party indemnity, as defined by section 234 of the The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Companies Act 2006.
The indemnities were executed Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and subsequent to the year end and are currently in force.
powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares are contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the Disclosure of information to Auditors Companies Act 2006.
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities Company at the time when this report was approved: in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no audit information as defined in the Companies Act of agreements which the Company is party to that affect its which the Companys auditors are unaware, and control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for ought to have taken as a Director in order to make loss of office.
himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys Auditors are Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues aware of that information.
Information on environmental matters, social and community The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in issues is set out on page 28.
The Company has no employees.
accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Independent Auditors  LLP have expressed their willingness Section 992 Companies Act 2006 to continue in office as Auditors and a resolution to re-appoint The following disclosures are made in accordance with them and authorise the Directors to determine their Section 992 Companies Act 2006. remuneration for the ensuing year, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Capital Structure The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside Annual General Meeting front cover of this report.
NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR Voting Rights in the Companys shares IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the you should take, you should seek your own personal financial date of this report are given in note 15 to the Notice of AGM on advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other page 57. financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Markets Act 2000.
At the date of this report, the following had declared a Resolutions relating to the following items of special business notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23 Directors Report continued i Authority to issue new shares for cash and disapply pre-emption Companys shares trade to their net asset value, for the benefit rights resolutions 6 and 7 of shareholders.
The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to Accordingly, shareholders will also be asked at the Annual issue up to 2,354,232 new shares for cash up to an aggregate General Meeting to approve resolutions 9 and 10 which will nominal amount of 588,558, such amount being equivalent to allow the Company to sell shares from Treasury at a discount to approximately 5% of the present issued share capital.
The full net asset value and disapply the statutory pre-emption rights text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on respectively.
This will enable the Company to sell shares held in page 55.
Treasury without having to first make a pro rata offer to It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new existing shareholders.
shares to investors purchasing shares through the JPMAM Should the resolutions be passed by shareholders, shares savings products and also to other investors when the would be sold from Treasury when market demand is Directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders identified.
Sales would only be made at a discount narrower to do so.
Any such issues would only be made at prices greater than the weighted average discount of the shares held in than the NAV, thereby increasing the assets underlying each Treasury at that time.
This process ensures that the share and spreading the Companys administrative expenses, enhancement in net asset value associated with share other than the management fee which is charged on the value purchases exceeds the dilution in net asset value associated of the Companys market capitalisation, over a greater number with the sale of Treasury shares at a discount.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
The Board is mindful that shareholders may be concerned about the dilution in net asset value associated with the sale of ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares resolution 8 Treasury shares at a discount.
It is therefore proposed that the The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys sale of shares from Treasury at a discount be limited so that in issued share capital, renewed by shareholders at the 2009 the year to the Companys 2011 Annual General Meeting, the Annual General Meeting, will expire on 6th January 2011 unless aggregate dilution in net asset value per share arising on such renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The sales does not exceed 4.54 pence per share, being Directors consider that the renewal of the authority is in the approximately 0.5% of the net asset value per ordinary share interests of shareholders as a whole as the repurchase of as at 31st March 2010.
During the year under review, no shares shares at a discount to NAV enhances the NAV of the remaining were sold from Treasury and hence there was no dilution of the shares.
The Board will therefore seek shareholder approval at net asset value.
the Annual General Meeting to renew this authority, which will last until 7th January 2012 or until the whole of the 14.99% has iv Articles of Association resolution 11 been acquired, whichever is the earlier.
The full text of the The Company proposes to adopt new articles of association.
resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 55.
These incorporate amendments to the current articles of Repurchases will be made at the discretion of the Board, and association to reflect the changes in company law brought will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing about by the 2006 Act which came into effect on 1st October NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining 2009 and changes made to the 2006 Act in August 2009 to shares, as and when market conditions are appropriate.
implement the EU Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK, as well as some minor technical or clarifying changes.
iii Treasury shares disapplication of pre-emption rights resolutions 9 and 10 The principal changes in the new articles of association The Company is permitted to purchase up to 10% of its own proposed to be adopted at the 2010 AGM relate to shareholder shares into Treasury for sale or cancellation at a future date as meetings and resolutions, the Companys constitution and an alternative to immediate cancellation.
The Board considers share capital.
that circumstances could arise in which it would be in In August 2009, changes were made to the provisions in the shareholders interests for such powers to be exercised.
This 2006 Act on company meetings by The Companies 10% would form part of the 14.99% referred to in ii above.
Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 Shareholders Rights The Board continues to believe that the effective use of Regulations to implement the EU Shareholder Rights Directive Treasury shares assists the Company in managing any in the UK.
The new articles incorporate amendments in relation imbalance between supply and demand, thereby minimising to meetings to ensure consistency with the 2006 Act as the volatility and absolute level of the discount at which the amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
24 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
