Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review This Business Review provides shareholders and other readers with information about the Companys business and results in 2010 and looks forward to the year ahead.
It is divided into two sections: Corporate and Investment.
CORPORATE SECTION which can be deployed, hedged or Corporate Section Objectives and Strategy neutralised with cash balances according Objectives and Strategy Witans objective is to be the preferred to our view of the outlook for markets.
Management Arrangements choice for wealth creation through equity We have a policy of actively managing The Witan Benchmark investment, adding value in the long term our gearing.
Dividend Policy for its investors.
This means that Witan Management Arrangements Share Buy-Backs and Discount will seek to make money for shareholders, As already noted, the management of Policy to do so more effectively than its sector Witans portfolio is outsourced to third Debt and Gearing Policy peers with similar objectives and to party investment managers around the Key Performance Indicators achieve consistent outperformance of the world.
Witans in-house executive Principal Risks and Uncertainties global stock markets represented by its management team manages and controls Witan Investment Services benchmark.
Recognising the importance these relationships, selects new managers Priorities for 2011 of dividends in the returns from equity when a change is appropriate, and investment, Witan has a policy of seeking advises the Board on all relevant Investment Section page 11 to increase its dividend at least in line with investment and business matters.
In addition, Witan seeks to Investment Policy executive management team is also attract new investors to buy the Trusts Portfolio Review responsible for actively managing the shares in order to provide ongoing The year in summary overall risk appetite of the portfolio and liquidity for shareholders.
Manager changes for identifying attractive specialist Use of derivatives Witans portfolio has a multi-manager investments in areas outside the Gearing management investment structure.
This reduces the delegated remit of Witans external Growth Opportunities performance volatility which can occur managers.
In addition, the in-house team Portfolio diversification when employing a single manager.
This manages the subsidiary company, Witan Investment Managers approach allows us to select a range of Investment Services Limited.
Manager Review high quality fund managers with Changes to the investment manager lineOutlook differing areas of expertise from around up during the year, along with other Witans Multi-Manager Approach the world often where the fund investment issues, are referred to in Our Current Managers manager is not otherwise available on the greater detail in the Investment Section An Evolving Process same terms or at all to the UK investor.
Our current managers Your Board believes that active are listed on pages 20 and 21, with a brief management of risk is essential in description of their style and corporate investment.
This is particularly relevant structure.
when markets are threatened by major Witan uses third parties for the economic disruption, as seen in recent supporting services it requires, including: years, but an adaptable approach is also needed in order to enhance investment BNP Paribas Securities Services SA performance in more positive times.
BPSS for global custody, Where appropriate, we are also willing to investment accounting and employ innovative investment administration.
techniques and invest in diverse asset Frostrow Capital LLP for company classes.
Investment trusts have the secretarial services.
advantage of being able to borrow in International Financial Data Services order to improve performance in rising Limited IFDS as the savings plan markets.
Witan has 110 million of long administrators of Witan Wisdom and term debt including preference shares Jump Savings.
6 Annual Report 2010 Cauldron Consulting for media has no specific policies in respect of making a total distribution for the year of relations.
environmental or social and community 10.9 pence 2009: 10.5 pence.
This is the Tangible Financial for advertising.
36th consecutive year that the annual Towers Watson for manager research dividend has increased and meets the The Witan Benchmark and performance analysis.
Companys ongoing intention to increase Your Companys benchmark is a reference From time to time, as required, Witan dividends per share at least in line with point for what shareholders can expect in also procures professional advice in inflation.
the long term from an investment in the areas of legal, compliance, Witan, in terms of the underlying Share Buy-Backs and Discount Policy investment consulting, financial and investment structure of the portfolio and Your Board places great importance on tax advice.
It enables the aims of your the encouragement of a liquid market in Witans aim as indicated in the first Company to be encapsulated succinctly Witans shares on the stock exchange.
A paragraph of this Business Review on without the need for a detailed description.
healthy two-way market enables page 6 is to provide consistently Although it is an equity benchmark, your shareholders to sell Witan shares at a price superior returns to shareholders.
Unlike Board reserves the right to invest in other that reflects prevailing market value while other multi-manager services, we do not assets if appropriate, for better performance potential new shareholders should also be levy an additional fee on top of the or capital preservation.
Since 1 October able to invest readily.
The Company underlying external managers fees and 2007 the benchmark has been: operates an active share buy-back policy, any negotiated savings in investment purchasing shares for cancellation when 40% FTSE All-Share Index management fees fall directly through to they stand at a significant discount to the 20% FTSE All-World North America lower the costs for shareholders.
Your net asset value excluding income, with Index Board applies strict controls over central debt at market value, with the objective 20% FTSE All-World Europe ex UK corporate costs.
Expenditure is only of achieving a sustainable discount of Index undertaken when necessary or when a 10% or below subject to market 20% FTSE All-World Asia Pacific specific endeavour has been identified conditions.
This policy has the direct Index.
which is likely to achieve a profitable effect of improving net asset value per return.
Our Total Expense Ratio TER This reflects a balance between the share with the additional strategic aims of reflects this disciplined attitude to costs domestic exposure and international mitigating volatility in the discount and as well as our ability to secure external status of the UK market and a broadly bringing the share price closer to the net investment management services on spread exposure to growth in other asset value.
The figure for 2010 regions of the world.
To assist The level of share buy-backs during 2010 was 1.07%, of which 0.26% reflected shareholders who may apply different is referred to in detail in the Chairmans performance fees payable as a result of benchmarks in evaluating comparative Statement.
This activity not only your managers success in beating their performance, we include performance generated an increase in net asset value benchmarks.
This compares with a TER information for other commonly used per share of 0.5% but also helped to of 0.99% in 2009, or 0.72% excluding indices in the Key Performance Indicators reverse periods of widening discounts performance fees, and with an average summary section on page 2.
The occasioned by market conditions and fee of 0.88% excluding performance benchmark does not drive the portfolio trading imbalances.
Our discount ended fees for the AIC Global Growth sector structure or the specific allocation of the year at 9.9% 2009: 9.2%.
Our source: AIC and of 2.1% for the openmandates to managers but it provides a average discount during the year was ended fund of funds sector source: IMA, marker for the long term performance of 11.1% 2009: 11.0%.
the Company it is a yardstick, not a straitjacket.
In addition to share buy-backs, Witan Since November 2005 the Company has operates an ongoing marketing had a lease on office premises at 14 Queen Over shorter periods, performance can be programme designed to stimulate interest Annes Gate, London SW1H 9AA, which expected to vary, sometimes considerably, in Witan and encourage new investment since 21 February 2011 has also become from that of the benchmark.
Over the into the Companys shares.
This the Companys registered office.
longer term, we aim for consistent programme communicates with private outperformance.
The Companys policy towards its and professional investors, financial employees is to attract and retain staff Dividend Policy advisers and intermediaries using a range with the particular skills and expertise The Board has declared a second interim of media including direct meetings, press required to manage the affairs of an dividend of 6.5 pence per share, to be interviews and advertising through investment trust company.
The Group paid to shareholders on 1 April 2011, traditional media and the internet.
7 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued Further information about our marketing The Board is conscious that it must Risk issues are further referred to in note programme can be found on pages 70 regularly review the nature of its 14 on pages 57 to 64. and 71. corporate objectives and strategy to 2.
Investment activity and strategy risks ensure that both remain relevant and Debt and Gearing Policy It is important that investment appropriate in a rapidly changing Witan has long term debt consisting of activities, including asset allocation, financial services and savings market.
debentures, secured bonds and preference stock selection and the level of gearing, This includes scrutiny of investment share capital which is detailed in note 13 are managed in a disciplined and policies, the role of marketing, the service on page 57.
In December 2010, a 50 prudent way, to reduce the risk of falls in offered by the Witan Wisdom savings million one year multi-currency facility Witans portfolio value or schemes and wider industry trends.
These was agreed see note 14.5 on page 61, underperformance against the issues are reviewed at least annually by which provides additional flexibility over Companys benchmark index or its peer the Board.
the level of gearing, as well as enabling group.
Adverse performance could also the Company to borrow in other result in the Companys shares trading The Groups key risks fall broadly under currencies than sterling, if deemed on a wider discount.
The Board seeks to the following categories: appropriate.
Witan may either invest its manage these risks by implementing an 1.
Market and portfolio risks borrowings fully, or neutralise the gearing appropriate asset allocation and a Witan has traditionally been a vehicle effect with cash balances or the sale of portfolio that is spread across a diverse for UK and overseas equity investment.
equity index futures according to our range of investment managers and Whilst this does not preclude a more view of the outlook for markets.
These aspects are regularly diversified or defensive strategy during reviewed, in addition to the extent of Key Performance Indicators periods of falling or turbulent markets, borrowings.
Your Board assesses its performance in nonetheless a key risk of investing in meeting the Companys objective against During the year Witans Chief Witan is a general fall in equity prices.
the following key performance indicators: Executive, Andrew Bell, managed the The other generic risks, as with any overall business and investment net asset value total return international equity portfolio, are those portfolio in accordance with limits and total shareholder return of overall investment strategy and restrictions determined by the Board.
investment performance compared country, currency, industrial sector, and These include limits on the extent to with the benchmark stock selection.
There are also risks which borrowings may be used.
The investment performance compared associated with the choice of managers.
Board reviews regularly the matters with sector comparators Your Board seeks to manage these risks delegated to executive management annual dividend growth through: and the CEO confirms compliance at discount to net asset value each Board meeting.
Directors are Appropriate asset allocation decisions.
provided with comprehensive Regular reviews of the competence Witans performance in 2010 against the management information covering and stock selection skills of fund above indicators is shown on page 2. many aspects of the business, including managers.
Most are also discussed in the Chairmans investment performance data, financial Monitoring the economic outlook, Statement on pages 3 to 5.
The Board also reports and shareholder analyses.
The geo-political environment and stock reviews absolute and relative volatility Board reviews investment strategy at market conditions around the world.
and risk statistics for the portfolio and each Board meeting and monitors the The application of relevant policies on evaluates employee performance against implementation and results of the gearing and liquidity.
investment process with the CEO.
The multiCEO regularly reviews reports and data manager structure of the portfolio Principal Risks and Uncertainties which monitor the portfolios principal means that from a risk point of view The Board has identified the key risks to risk factors.
Witan is less exposed to individual the Group which need to be managed manager performance than with a and has collated them in a risk matrix 3.
Corporate governance and conventionally structured portfolio.
The risks relating to Witans shareholder relations Delegating authorities to the subsidiary company, Witan Investment Details of the Companys compliance executive management team to Services Limited WIS, are separately with corporate governance best practice, manage risk actively, whether to recorded.
The respective documents are including information on relations with reviewed and updated regularly by the preserve capital or capitalise on shareholders, are set out in the Corporate relevant Board of directors.
Governance Statement on pages 28 to 34.
8 Annual Report 2010 An innovation in 2010 was the monitored by the CEO.
The Company and the key elements designed to provide commissioning of an externally-managed must comply with the provisions of the effective internal control, are explained Board Review, to evaluate the current Companies Act 2006 the Companies further in the internal control section of effectiveness of the Board and make Act, and, as the Companys shares are the Corporate Governance Statement on suggestions to help ensure that the listed for trading on the London Stock pages 33 and 34. structure and processes of the Board Exchange, the Company must comply Witan Investment Services WIS remain effective and evolve to meet with the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Witan Investment Services Limited is a future challenges.
The Board has for a Rules and Disclosure Rules UKLA wholly owned subsidiary of Witan number of years conducted its own Rules.
A breach of the Companies Act Investment Trust plc.
It was established in internal review but in line with best could result in the Company and or the March 2005 and is authorised and practice a three-yearly external review directors being fined or becoming the regulated by the FSA to provide cycle has been established to supplement subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach investment products and services and to the more frequent internal evaluation.
of the UKLA Rules could result in the give investment advice to professional suspension of the Companys shares, Operational and regulatory risks are investors.
which would in turn lead to a breach of regularly and extensively reviewed by the provisions of the CTA.
The principal activity of WIS is to provide Witans Audit Committee.
Witan executive management services to the Investment Services Limited WIS is The Board relies on the CEO, the boards of Witan Investment Trust plc and subject to its own operating rules and Company Secretary and the Groups Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc and to regulations and is regulated by the professional advisers to ensure stimulate interest in their shares.
Your Board compliance with the CTA, the takes its own regulatory responsibilities Companies Act and the UKLA Rules.
WIS Its objectives are: very seriously and reviews the main is regulated by the Financial Services to operate a reliable and efficient points of compliance against Authority for the marketing and investment savings platform for requirements on a quarterly basis.
Your administration of savings plans and the Witan and Witan Pacific investors Board also takes corporate, legal, provision of investment advice to to minimise the operating costs for accounting and tax advice as professional clients.
The savings plans are Witan Investment Trust appropriate.
administered on behalf of WIS by IFDS.
to seek sources of revenue to generate Operationally the multi-manager The Board takes legal, accounting or a profit.
structure is robust, as each of the compliance advice, as appropriate, to WIS has two discernible channels of investment managers, the custodian and monitor changes in the regulatory income by which its performance may be the fund accountants keep their own environment affecting the Company.
These are the revenues from records which are reconciled monthly.
Current issues include the Alternative transaction fees or annual management Management monitors the activities of all Investment Fund Manager Directive from charges relating to its savings plan third parties and reports any significant the European Commission and the Retail business and, secondly, executive issues to the Board.
Comprehensive Distribution Review, which will affect the management and marketing fees paid by contractual obligations and investment management industry as well its corporate clients, Witan Investment indemnification provisions have been as the marketing of investment products Trust plc and Witan Pacific Investment put in place with each of the third party to retail investors.
implications will become clearer as the details of how they will be implemented The business provides savings plans to 4.
Accounting, legal and regulatory are specified in the next two years.
WIS clients and is marketed under the In order to qualify as an investment trust Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings the Company must comply with sections 5.
It currently has about 30,000 1158-59 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Many of the Groups operations are customers with assets of some 229 CTA to which reference is made on outsourced to third parties, principally million invested.
The major costs page 23 under the heading Status.
Disruption to, or failure of, the incurred by WIS are fees to the breach of these sections could result in accounting, payment systems or custody administrators of the Witan Wisdom the Company losing investment trust records operated by BPSS could prevent platform.
status and, as a consequence, capital the accurate reporting and monitoring of gains realised within the Companys the Companys financial position.
Details The migration of Witans savings schemes portfolio would be subject to of how the Board monitors the services to a new administrator was successfully Corporation Tax.
The criteria are provided by BPSS and its other suppliers, completed in December 2010.
The new 9 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued administrator is International Financial certain investment companies was built selecting and monitoring suitable Data Services Limited.
up, focused on asset categories such as managers to deliver our strategic private equity not represented in our objectives through a multi-manager Priorities for 2011 external managers portfolios.
structure The objective in 2010 was to manage active management of risk appetite, Witans portfolio to add value in an 2010 was a year of substantial change, responding to tactical opportunities environment which was less chaotic than increasing the range of tools used by to boost returns or to protect capital 2008 and 2009 but continued to have its Witan to generate performance.
2011 will aiming to maintain dividend growth share of crises.
This was successfully see Witan operating the revised ahead of inflation accomplished, as recorded in detail investment process for the full year, while communicating Witans more active elsewhere in this report.
The range of remaining alert to new ideas which could investment process to existing and managers was changed to increase the give us additional levers to pull to potential shareholders exposure to active management, closing generate performance.
delivering a good service to the the two enhanced index mandates.
A In 2011, the key priorities include: corporate and individual clients of more active approach was taken to asset Witan Investment Services allocation and risk management, maintaining an appropriate seeking business development increasing gearing mid year after the strategic asset allocation to reflect opportunities where Witans multisummer correction and using equity index changing opportunities in the world manager expertise can be applied futures.
A portfolio of direct holdings in economy beneficially.
10 Annual Report 2010 INVESTMENT SECTION selecting a range of investment way to fears of renewed recession, as the Investment Policy managers with different mandates impact of 2009s reflationary policies Witan invests primarily in global equities.
monitoring and reviewing investment began to fade.
These concerns were given Equity exposure is unlikely, in normal manager performance and portfolios extra bite by investor realisation that the conditions, to drop below 80% although active management of risk appetite, Euro currency zones economic policies this does not preclude a more defensive were unable to bridge the differences in taking account of asset allocation, positioning in exceptional market economic conditions between the core, currency exposures and gearing levels conditions.
The Board is prepared to relatively stable economies notably carefully controlled use of liquid, consider alternative investments when Germany and those on the periphery of exchange-traded derivatives appropriate.
the region, whose economies had principally equity index futures.
misapplied the benefit of the lower The Company has the power under its During the year the Company invested its interest regime in the Euro by Articles of Association to borrow up to assets with a view to spreading investment succumbing to fiscal laxity or a bank 100% of the adjusted total of capital and risk and in accordance with the lending bubble centred on property reserves.
This allows the Board to seek to investment policy as set out above.
improve performance through gearing by particular it has maintained a diversified borrowing amounts equivalent in value to The fear of governments defaulting portfolio in terms of stocks, sectors and shareholders funds.
In practice the Board would be bad enough at any time but the geography.
The portfolio has been actively would not, other than temporarily in widespread exposure of European banks managed by the investment managers, exceptional circumstances, allow gearing to the government bonds of peripheral with overall asset allocation and risk being as defined on page 2 to rise to more than Eurozone countries threatened losses managed by Witans executive team.
Over the past five years it has varied which would undermine their capital directors have received regular reports on between 0% and 15% while, occasionally, strength when they had barely begun to investment activity and portfolio the Company has held a small net cash recover from exposure to the sub-prime construction, both at and between the position.
At the end of 2010, the lending collapse in the US.
Albeit regular meetings of the Board.
Company had in place 110 million of grudgingly, the European authorities Portfolio Review long term debt equivalent to 9.7% of recognized that they could not afford to The year in summary shareholders funds, although effective allow a run of sovereign defaults, since Following the high dramas of 2009, 2010 gearing was less than this 5.4%, owing these would risk a renewed recession saw greater certainty over the economic to cash holdings, which had been which would make it harder to outlook and reduced fears over the increased following the market rally.
implement the more responsible policies stability of the financial system but still required to put the continents Investment risk is managed through: had its fair share of volatility.
Sentiment economies on a sustainable long-term diversification of the investment was fickle, with the early months footing.
It also became clear that there portfolio across global markets anticipation of economic recovery giving was a degree of self-sustaining Performance for 2010 Performance since multi-manager inception 120 200 10 4 180 8 110 160 6 2 140 4 100 120 2 0 100 0 90 80 -2 -2 Sep Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2009 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Share price total return NAV total return at fair value NAV total return at fair value Share price total return NAV total return relative to the Benchmark right hand axis NAV total return relative to the Benchmark right hand axis Source: Lipper and Datastream from 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2010 Source: Lipper and Datastream from 30 September 2004 to 31 December 2010 11 Indexed Performance Indexed Performance Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued The table below shows the current investment management arrangements: Equity mandate Investment manager Benchmark total return Investment style UK Artemis Investment FTSE All-Share Recovery special Management situations UK Lindsell Train FTSE All-Share Intrinsic value UK NewSmith Asset Management FTSE All-Share Flexible, thematic UK smaller companies Henderson Global Investors Hoare Govett Smaller Growth at an attractive Companies ex investment price companies Global Southeastern Asset FTSE All-World Value Management Global MFS Investment FTSE All-World Growth at an attractive Management price Global Thomas White International FTSE All-World Fundamental value Global Veritas Asset Management FTSE All-World Fundamental value, real return objective Pan-European Marathon Asset FTSE All-World Capital cycles Management Developed Europe Pan-European Varenne Capital Partners FTSE All-World Intrinsic value Developed Europe Asia Pacific ex Japan Comgest FTSE All-World Asia ex Fundamental Japan Australia New Zealand research Emerging Markets Trilogy Global Advisors MSCI Emerging Markets Fundamental, growth orientated Growth Opportunities Witan direct holdings Witans external benchmark Opportunistic, mispriced assets, recovery, specialist funds momentum in the recovery, particularly markets take fright if a sustained global Manager changes in the corporate sector, and that the recovery takes hold in 2011, given the risk During the year, a number of changes global authorities were committed to of inflation from the unconventional were made to Witans manager structure: supporting the recovery, if only in order monetary policies adopted to combat the In July, Marathon Asset Management to make the required rebalancing in the banking crisis.
There is also likely to be an was appointed to manage a panglobal economy more readily achievable increased focus on the outsized European portfolio, incorporating its which would be less likely, and certainly government deficits which have been existing UK-only mandate and a more traumatic, in a recessionary created in order to mitigate the effects of Europe ex-UK mandate previously environment.
Although a rise in bond yields managed by Wellington Management wobble in equity markets was followed seems more likely to force politicians to Company.
by a strong autumn rally which persisted curtail budget deficits rather than be In September, two active UK through to the end of the year.
ignored and then stifle the recovery, the managers Lindsell Train and risks of policy mistakes mean that a As 2010 ended, the policy contradictions NewSmith Asset Management were benign outcome cannot be taken for in Europe remained a potential source of appointed in place of the UK granted.
A lesson from 2010 was that instability, given differing national enhanced index portfolio previously periods when markets are unhappy with objectives within the Eurozone.
managed by Henderson Global macro-economic policies can be highly Furthermore, there is a risk that bond Investors.
12 Annual Report 2010 In November, Veritas Asset selection, reducing the proportion in investment differentially to favoured Management was appointed to single-country portfolios.
In both cases, the use of index manage a global unconstrained futures enables the adjustments to be Use of derivatives made without interfering with the portfolio, replacing the Japan-only In June 2010, Witan began to employ mandate previously managed by assigned objectives for our investment equity index futures in order to raise its Brandes Investment Partners and the managers, which are to pick stocks that gearing, in response to the perceived US enhanced index portfolio will grow in value over the medium to value on offer after the correction in previously managed by Henderson long term and outperform their world markets.
The investments covered Global Investors.
futures in the FTSE 100, S&P Composite, Finally, in December, Trilogy Global Euro Stoxx 50, Japanese and MSCI The underlying futures exposure varied Advisors was appointed to manage a Emerging Markets indices.
The Company between zero and 7% of assets, finishing specialist Emerging Markets portfolio, takes full account of the underlying value the year at zero.
The investments in this funded from cash balances and the of the futures contracts in measuring its area were beneficial during 2010, as they sale of the Australian equity portfolio gearing.
The value of the investments gave us additional tactical exposure to our previously managed by Orbis which are exchange traded is fully preferred equity markets during the Investment Management.
marked to market every day.
second half of the year, when the market The guiding principles behind these trend was strongly positive.
Although this The use of equity index futures has a manager changes were a reorientation of ability was used in 2010 to increase number of benefits.
It enables Witan to the portfolio towards a full commitment gearing ahead of the second half market increase or reduce its gearing at a known to active managers, closing the rally, in other circumstances it could be and immediate index level, conferring remainder of the index-oriented used to reduce our investment exposure, if tactical flexibility.
It also provides a this were judged to be in the interests of mandates and a greater emphasis on means of adjusting the geographical asset unconstrained cross-border stock allocation for example, by allocating the shareholders.
Performance Benchmark for the year ended 31 December 2010 and Value of % of Witans Performance Performance from inception to 31 December 2010 Witan assets assets under Benchmark since since managed management Performance Performance inception inception Inception m at 31.12.10 in 2010 in 2010 to 31.12.10 to 31.12.10 Investment Manager Date at 31.12.10 Note 1 % % % Note 2 % Note 2 Artemis Investment Management UK 06.05.08 101.7 8.3 20.3 14.5 9.6 2.5 Lindsell Train UK Note 3 01.09.10 117.2 9.5 not applicable 16.8 11.5 NewSmith Asset Management UK Note 3 01.09.10 114.4 9.3 not applicable 13.4 11.5 Henderson Global Investors UK smaller 31.08.04 31.2 2.5 42.8 28.5 13.5 12.1 Southeastern Asset Management Global 30.09.04 156.6 12.8 21.4 16.7 8.6 9.8 MFS Investment Management Global 30.09.04 118.6 9.7 17.7 16.7 11.9 9.8 Thomas White International Global 28.09.07 122.6 10.0 20.3 16.7 5.5 4.4 Veritas Asset Management Global Note 3 11.11.10 83.2 6.8 not applicable 4.2 5.9 Marathon Asset Management Pan-Europe Note 3 23.07.10 136.9 11.2 not applicable 12.8 11.8 Varenne Capital Partners Pan-Europe 30.04.08 31.7 2.6 31.1 8.2 5.2 0.8 Comgest Asia Pacific ex Japan 31.07.07 81.6 6.6 27.2 25.6 12.9 12.4 Trilogy Global Advisors Emerging Markets Note 3 09.12.10 51.9 4.2 not applicable 4.2 3.7 Witan Growth Opportunities direct holdings Note 3 19.03.10 79.9 6.5 not applicable 3.3 6.7 Notes: 1.
Excluding cash balances held centrally by Witan and the unquoted investments.
The percentages are annualised where the inception date was before 2010.
13 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued The operation of this investment area is well diversified across regional stock The base management fee rates range the responsibility of the Chief Executive markets and, importantly, across a range from nil to 0.9% per cent per annum and Officer, who reports transactions to the of managers.
In addition, the exposure to the performance fees range from nil to Board as they occur as well as being more rapidly growing and emerging 25 per cent per annum of the relevant accountable to the Board for the financial outperformance.
All the fees are payable economies has been increased.
The performance fees expected in a multi-manager portfolio, are payable on a pro rata basis, after a individual manager returns vary: Gearing management minimum initial period of one year.
however, in 2010 all of Witans managers Gearing was managed actively during the who were in place for the whole of 2010 year, averaging 6.6% during the first half The average aggregate base outperformed their respective before being stepped up to reflect clearer management fee, weighted according to benchmarks during the year.
In addition, economic prospects in the second half, the value of the funds under five out of the six who were replaced when gearing averaged 9.9%, ending the management, was 0.35% as at outperformed their benchmarks.
This reflects the Companys 31 December 2010 end 2009: 0.31%.
combined performance, along with the view that gearing is an effective tool to On a similar basis, the average timely use of gearing, helped to generate boost returns at times of high conviction performance fee is 14% of a NAV total return of 18.9%, 3.4% ahead but should be used judiciously.
outperformance of the relevant of the Witan benchmark which returned benchmark, subject in most cases to Growth Opportunities 15.5%.
capping of payments for any particular The Company initiated a policy of year.
As an illustration, if our managers Witan is predominantly equity based but making direct investments in selected uniformly outperformed their the remit allows investment in other collective funds during the year, to gain benchmarks by 3% after base areas when considered appropriate, either exposure to investment areas which fell management fees, this would generate a to enhance returns or to mitigate risk.
In outside the remit of the Companys performance fee of 0.42% of net assets, normal market circumstances, equity external investment managers but were giving total investment management exposure can be expected to be at least viewed as attractive.
These included listed fees of 0.77%.
The actual fees payable 80%, while gearing, as noted elsewhere, is private equity funds 3i Group, Electra will of course vary according both to Private Equity and HarbourVest Global managed within an overall maximum the level of performance and the Private Equity, distressed debt investment level of 20%.
variation in performance between NB Distressed Debt Fund, UK domestic Investment Managers managers with higher or lower fees.
recovery Invista Foundation Property Witan takes care to ensure that the fee As set out in the table on page 12, the Fund and Aberforth Geared Income Trust levels it pays are competitive and that portfolio consists of 12 separate external and a specialist environmental fund where higher fees are incurred they are mandates managed by different fund Ludgate Environmental Fund Limited.
linked to good performance, from management firms, in addition to the These amounted to 6.5% of Witans which shareholders benefit.
directly-held positions managed by the investment portfolio at the year end, with Chief Executive Officer.
the management of this portfolio being The investment managers may use the responsibility of the Chief Executive certain services which are paid for, or Each of the managers is entitled to a base Officer.
This category may also be used to provided by, various brokers.
In return, management fee, calculated according to allocate smaller size investments to they may place business, including the value of the assets under investment managers who may currently transactions relating to the Company, management, and or a performance fee, be less established in order to gain greater with those brokers.
calculated according to investment familiarity with their processes and style.
performance, relative to the benchmark Manager Review The incidence of such opportunities is applicable to the investment mandate.
The table on page 13 shows the likely to vary over the economic cycle, The fees for each of the segregated performance of the individual equity which will be reflected in the size and investment management agreements are managers for 2010 as well as since composition of this portfolio of direct subject to a percentage cap in respect of inception, compared with their holdings.
The standout can be terminated on one months Portfolio diversification absolute performer in 2010 was the notice.
One of the investment mandates In order to capture the changing smaller companies portfolio managed is operated via a fund vehicle, to simplify dynamics in the global economy and by Henderson, which delivered a total custody arrangements in emerging provide stability against problems within return of 43%, 14% ahead of its individual countries, Witans portfolio is economies.
The strongest relative 14 Annual Report 2010 performer was the concentrated stock strongest in Witans portfolio although of investment companies, which offer portfolio managed by Varenne, which the absolute gain came second to the UK exposure to areas of value or specialist saw a total return of 31%, 23% ahead of smaller companies portfolio.
Marathon, growth in which our external managers its benchmark.
All the managers in the other pan-European manager, was would be unlikely to invest.
To date, the place for the full year outperformed.
appointed in July and has so far bulk of this investment is in quoted performed ahead of its European private equity investment companies, as The outperformance from most of the benchmark.
well as some exposure to property, managers whose mandates were closed smaller companies and distressed debt during the year underscores the point Japan is a market where we have decided management.
This portfolio is compared that the reason for the changes related to cease using a specialist manager.
against the overall Witan composite principally to a shift towards a more Although Witans manager outperformed benchmark, since it has a wide remit active, unconstrained stock-picking the Japanese market during the six years partly determined by gaps in Witans structure for Witans portfolio, not to of the appointment, Japan was such a overall exposure and needs to manager shortcomings.
poorly performing market that the demonstrate that it can add value in the mandate was a drain on Witans overall In the UK, the management of our assets long-term relative to allocating the returns.
Although the 20 year decline of was substantially changed during the money to Witans other managers.
To the Japanese market attracts the attention year by the replacement of the UK date, performance has been behind of contrarians, the attraction is diluted by enhanced index mandate and the merger Witans average performance, although the overvalued starting point in 1990. of Marathons UK portfolio into a new the average invested period for the The yens strength has offset some of the and larger pan-European portfolio.
The holdings is under six months.
index decline and the record of two mandates in place for the full year, companies being managed in It is pleasing to note that, aside from Artemis and Henderson smaller shareholders interests is mixed.
We are their relative performance, all of Witans companies, both outperformed.
As noted watchful for signs of change but not portfolios including those appointed earlier, the smaller companies portfolio currently convinced of the markets shortly before the market downturn are was a particularly strong performer.
Our global managers now ahead of their book cost making The two new active managers appointed shareholders actual, rather than simply are free to take positions in Japanese in September have had a good start, relative, money.
companies they perceive as attractive keeping pace with the strong rally in the compared with opportunities elsewhere The table on page 16 shows the market since their appointment.
and we have tactical scope to vary investments with the widest variation Japanese market exposure using equity Our three global stock picking managers above and below the weighting of the index futures which were profitably all outperformed their global stocks in Witans benchmark.
benchmark, with Southeasterns valuestock selection is not driven by the driven concentrated style proving the Our Asian manager, Comgest, has significance of the stock in the index, the most successful.
This illustrates the performed ahead of the regional table gives a snapshot of the top merits of taking a long-term view of benchmark during the year, despite a overweight and underweight holdings manager performance, given that their on a look through basis across our fundamentally-driven investment style deep value style struggled to perform managers.
that was at a disadvantage during some during the momentum led bull market of the more momentum-dominated The top 50 holdings across the whole of prior to 2008 but has been creating value phases of the market.
During December, Witans portfolios are set out on page 19. since the markets troughed.
Witan Witan also appointed a manager, Trilogy They represent 42.9% of Witans added a fourth global manager, Veritas, Global Advisors, for a global emerging portfolio 2009: 37%.
This highlights in November, for whom it is too soon to markets portfolio.
This, together with an the substantial diversification provided comment on performance.
increase in our global portfolios exposure by our range of managers and global to faster growing and emerging Aside from European holdings within the geographical exposure.
Diversification economies, has increased the proportion global managers portfolios, Witan has does not mean index-hugging.
What of our assets exposed to countries with two managers with pan-European UK also stands out is the distinctive nature faster growth, which we believe will remits.
Varenne is a small, intrinsic-value of our top 50.
They represent 43% of prove to be an enduring trend, albeit focused concentrated stock picker and Witans portfolio but only 19% of the with bumps along the way.
performed very strongly, against an benchmark.
Looked at another way, the unpromising European market backdrop.
benchmarks top 50 stocks represent Finally, as noted elsewhere, Witan has Its relative return of 23% was the 34.9% of that yardstick but Witan has invested 6.5% of its assets in a number 15 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued Portfolio Weighting Name Sector minus Benchmark Weighting Top 10 Overweight positions at 31 December 2010 Electra Private Equity including convertible bond Equity Investment Instruments 2.44 NKSJ Holdings Nonlife Insurance 1.30 London Stock Exchange Financial Services 1.15 3i Group Financial Services 1.12 Schroders Financial Services 1.11 Fairfax Financial Nonlife Insurance 1.00 Sage Software & Computer Services 0.96 DirecTV Media 0.94 Dell Technology Hardware & Equipment 0.92 ACS Actividades Construction & Materials 0.90 Top 10 Underweight positions at 31 December 2010 Royal Dutch Shell Oil & Gas Producers -2.42 HSBC Financial Services -2.20 Vodafone Mobile Telecommunications -1.07 British American Tobacco Tobacco -0.93 Anglo American Mining -0.90 BG Group Oil & Gas Producers -0.54 Exxon Mobil Oil & Gas Producers -0.54 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology -0.47 Nestl Food Producers -0.46 BP Oil & Gas Producers -0.44 only 19% of its portfolio invested in also an assumption that monetary Another threat is premature policy them.
The objective of using active policy will remain very loose, to help tightening.
As long as growth in managers is to hold a portfolio which borrowers reduce their debts and developed economies remains slow and will perform better than the attract capital to refinance borrowings fragile, there is a risk that rapid fiscal benchmark, which means it has to be hanging over from the credit boom.
retrenchment or rises in interest rates different from the benchmark.
Witan could cause the recovery to stall.
So far, The recent widespread political change meets this test.
this risk has been averted helped by the in Arab countries, including some US commitment to low rates and Outlook important oil producers, has injected quantitative easing but complacency is 2010s recovery in corporate significant uncertainty into the not warranted some European countries profitability is expected to continue economic outlook for 2011.
A prolonged are under market pressure to tighten during 2011, as economic growth has disruption to oil supplies would change fiscal policy to a degree that threatens to picked up from a dip last summer.
current assumptions markedly for the keep their economies in recession.
The process of retrenchment by worse.
In a rational world, the overextended borrowers in developed dislocation to supplies would be limited, Inflation has gained increased attention economies and the pressure for banks or brief, as producing countries need for in recent months, as strong demand to boost their capital ratios continue to oil revenues is independent of the growth in emerging economies, loose act as headwinds to economic growth.
However, monetary policy, political unrest and The hope therefore is that the reason is not always in the ascendant climatic factors have contributed to a corporate sector will begin to raise during periods of rapid political change, surge in commodity prices.
This is posing capital investment to offset the cuts in so forecasts of steady economic growth dilemmas for developed economies as a government spending required to during 2011 must be made with greater result of headline inflation rising in bring budget deficits down.
There is caveats than usual.
economies still subject to deflationary 16 Annual Report 2010 pressures, but the problems are more monitoring performance against targets.
with the aims of adding to future severe in emerging economies, where the performance and giving greater clarity Witan selects its managers from amongst cost of basic foodstuffs is a higher over Witans investment policy.
Our those whose processes, principles and proportion of household budgets.
investment processes are focused on performance commend them as long continuing to adapt to structural changes In recent days, the world has been term custodians of investors wealth.
We and themes in the global economy while transfixed by the enormity of the are seeking managers who can capture being resilient against the shorter term earthquake in Japan and the subsequent the longer term growth rewards from influences of economic cycles and inundation of a wide area of Japans East equity investment by focusing on investment fads.
In a humbling fundamental value rather than chasing demonstration of the forces of nature, short term momentum.
This fits with a many thousands have lost their lives or fundamental dictum of equity been displaced for an indefinite period investment, that whilst in the short term and coastal towns and cities have been markets are a voting machine in the swept away.
It is too soon to gauge the long term they are a weighing machine.
consequences, in the wake of the tragic Central to this approach is the idea of loss of life and the damage to nuclear and balance.
Just as exposure to a single other infrastructure.
market or a small number of The foregoing range of both man-made investments can lead to volatile and natural events injects a significant performance, so can investing with a amount of uncertainty into the outlook single manager or a group of managers for economic planners and financial with the same philosophy.
The improving prior trend of approach aims to balance different economic momentum should help these factors such as value and growth, problems to be surmounted but the geographical diversification, conjunction of these factors has led to a concentrated versus widely diversified correction in equity markets, reflecting portfolios and secular growth versus greater concern over the near-term cyclical trends with the intention of prospects for economic growth in general smoothing out stylistic fashions and and the differing effects of these events profiting from the managers ability to on individual economies and companies.
Witans Multi-Manager Approach Our Current Managers As referred to elsewhere in this report, The tables on pages 12 and 13 give a Witan manages its portfolio using a summary of the range of styles amongst multi-manager approach.
This was our current investment managers, the adopted in 2004, in the belief that no proportion of Witans portfolio they single investment manager was likely to manage and their performance over the excel in all asset classes over economic past year and since appointment.
On cycles or longer time periods.
Therefore, pages 20 and 21 further information is seeking to employ managers to invest in given about the managers history, the their areas of greatest competence has total amount of investments they the potential both to improve returns manage and their investment approach.
and to reduce risk relative to using a These are intended to give a sense of the single manager across the investment investment infrastructure and dynamics waterfront.
underlying the management of the portfolio.
The Board and the executive team are responsible for managing the portfolios An Evolving Process asset allocation, choosing a suitable range Witans multi-manager approach has of managers to use their stock selection evolved in stages from its pre 2004 model skills to implement the strategy, as a Company with a single manager.
designing appropriate incentives and 2010 was a year of significant change, 17
