Business Review Chief Executives Review Energy for the future Sam Laidlaw Chief Executive Decarbonising power generation is, however, only part of the In 2010 we delivered a strong story.
Much more can be done to help customers, whether operational and financial result, residential or commercial to reduce their CO2 emissions through energy efficiency measures.
For Centrica this has been about reflecting the contribution from helping customers, whether in the UK or North America, to use less energy rather than the traditional paradigm of maximising the the enlarged upstream business energy we sell.
Homes in the UK are responsible for a quarter of in the UK, together with a good the UKs CO2 emissions, and programmes to assist on insulation, high efficiency boilers, smart meters and microgeneration have the downstream performance in both potential to reduce CO2 emissions in this sector by 20% over the the UK and North America.
When coupled with the fact that the electricity that homes will be using will become lower carbon, the overall saving investment programme for 2011 for households could amount to 35%.
and beyond will enable continued This investment in lower carbon generation does however come at a price, on top of rising international commodity costs.
Unless we growth for the benefit of all our are able to entirely offset this increase with increased consumption stakeholders, offering a competitive savings, higher household bills are inevitable.
We need to be honest about this as an industry and as a nation and continue deal for customers, creating further to take steps to protect the most vulnerable in our society.
job opportunities, and delivering Centricas business model is now better balanced and is well placed to thrive, with most of our energy being sourced from our superior financial returns for our own lower carbon sources.
The opportunity for us is to help our shareholders.
customers through our growing services businesses to reduce their fuel bills for today and their emissions for tomorrow.
An overview of the energy industry 2010 performance In last years Annual Report I highlighted the need for Centrica to Centrica delivered a strong financial and operational performance pursue growth opportunities and lead the drive to the low carbon in 2010.
We reported a significant increase in year-on-year world.
This has been the focus of our activities in 2010. earnings in a competitive market and continued to grow our Whilst climate change, security of energy supply and the downstream operations, both in the UK and in North America.
affordability of energy supply are issues that impact all countries, All of this has been built upon a steady improvement in customer the UK has a number of particular issues.
Our past reliance on service.
Upstream, our operations have been transformed by low cost North Sea gas is being replaced by an increasing the Venture acquisition, delivering high levels of gas and oil dependence on imports.
While a few years ago we were selfproduction, underpinned by exacting standards of reliability sufficient, this winter we imported 50% of our gas.
generation many of the UKs coal fired stations will have to be UK wholesale gas prices remained relatively low during the closed in the next five years to comply with our EU and cold weather experienced in the first quarter of the year, but International Climate Change commitments and our existing then increased sharply.
Gas prices were around 40% higher in nuclear fleet is ageing.
Taken together it is estimated that the UK the fourth quarter of the year than in the first quarter, contributing requires some 200 billion of investment in energy infrastructure to substantially lower margins in our downstream supply business to meet the challenges of climate change and energy security.
in the second half of the year.
We have made good progress in This is a huge task and the majority of this investment will be in expanding our energy services operation and in business energy offshore wind, new nuclear, additional gas fired generation and we once again delivered strong growth.
grid reinforcement to support intermittent wind generation.
Upstream in the UK, our gas and oil business delivered strong Investment on this scale will require the policy and regulatory production performance and benefited from higher wholesale framework to ensure that carbon is correctly priced, that all forms prices in the second half of the year.
In UK power generation, of low carbon generation are rewarded and that energy diversity the nuclear and wind assets in our portfolio have benefited from is encouraged.
We welcome the UK Governments intent to higher power prices.
However low spark spreads led to weaker address these issues through the proposed reform of the returns from our gas fired power stations.
To see more online, go to: www.
com ceo2010 4 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 In gas storage, operational performance during the year was In British Gas Services, we have made considerable progress strong.
Although market spreads reduced from the second despite the challenging economic climate.
The record levels of quarter onwards, realisations remained high for the 2010 11 boiler repair call-outs during the cold weather incurred additional storage year, as much of Roughs capacity had already been costs for the business as our engineers worked hard to reach as sold at higher prices.
many of our customers as possible.
In total we added 265,000 services customer accounts over the year, with growth in each In North America depressed market prices for both gas and of our core products, including an increase in central heating power have led to lower returns from our upstream assets.
service contracts towards the end of the year.
We have agreed However, downstream we made encouraging progress, with new working arrangements with our engineers which will improve operational improvements helping us achieve strong returns on the flexibility and responsiveness of the service we provide to capital employed and the acquisition of Clockwork Home Services our customers.
leaving the business well placed for the future.
We also achieved a significant increase in the number of boiler Strategic progress installations, up over 30% year on year, following the launch of a more competitively priced offering.
We have made real and measurable progress against the strategic priorities we set out a year ago, across each of our businesses.
Early in 2011 British Gas established partnerships with Nectar We now have a more balanced business, with the flexibility to and Sainsburys Energy, offering customers the opportunity to perform well in a range of commodity price environments.
With earn additional benefits when they take our energy and services strong cash flows and diverse investment options, Centrica is well products and providing further channels for growth.
positioned to continue to deliver growth for the long term and lead British Gas Business continues to perform very well, increasing the transition to a low carbon world.
operating profit by 27% year on year.
A key part of its success has been our customer segmented volume-to-value strategy, which focuses on delivering high and differentiated levels of service to retain and acquire high value small enterprise, medium enterprise and multi-site customers.
Through the acquisition of Connaughts gas and electricity services business, we are also developing a complete energy solutions service for our business customers.
We understand that these are difficult times for many small businesses and we have been taking the lead, through our expert credit solutions team, in providing flexible payment plans and energy efficiency advice to those business customers that need it.
It is vital that we position ourselves now in the areas that will underpin the future of British Gas the provision of energy-related services.
Here we continue to make good progress.
We have adopted a go-early strategy, aimed at revolutionising the energy efficiency of the nations homes.
This means that we are driving British Gas Smart Metering vans ahead with the installation of smart meters and our customers will be able to take advantage of our early phase Green Deal in the Strategic priority 01 first half of 2011, almost two years ahead of its official launch.
Customers will receive energy efficiency improvements, such as insulation and efficient heating systems, at no upfront cost, spreading growing British Gas the cost over future energy bills funded by the savings they will make.
During 2010, we entered into a commercial agreement with British Gas has had a strong year.
We played a key role Mears, a leading participant in the social housing sector, and have in helping our customers maintain warm, well lit homes made a number of small acquisitions to help enhance our capability during the exceptionally cold weather at the start and in new technologies, including microgeneration, specialist end of the year, meeting around 30% of the countrys insulation and home energy management.
Our services business total gas demand.
is an area of distinctive competitive advantage.
We expect the In residential energy, we led the market by cutting gas prices provision of energy services to play a defining role for the energy in February and achieved a significant increase in customer company of the future, forming the basis for long-term growth.
accounts over the course of the year.
While the sharp increase in wholesale gas and power prices and non-commodity costs necessitated an increase in our retail tariffs towards the end of the year, we have made a priority of helping our customers manage their energy consumption and we have targeted help directly to our most vulnerable customers, especially the elderly.
Energy efficiency measures have helped to reduce underlying average gas consumption by 22% amongst our customers over the past five years and we are actively helping our customers make further savings, with market-leading deals such as our free insulation offer for British Gas customers.
We have contributed over 80 million to provide help for our most vulnerable customers.
British Gas engineer Including share of joint ventures and associates stated before interest and taxation, and before depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments and For more on exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
Strategic Investments are the acquisition of Venture and the investment in British Energy p10 British Gas As above, except joint ventures and associates stated net of interest and taxation Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 Business Review Chief Executives Review continued Irish Sea zone in the Crown Estates Round 3 offshore wind tendering process.
In gas storage, the Rough facility once again delivered excellent operational performance, reflecting continuous investment in the asset since its acquisition.
Exceptionally cold weather in the first quarter of the year resulted in record depletion by March.
This was followed by a record injection season during the summer months and then unusually high levels of withdrawal in November and December.
The spread between winter and summer prices has narrowed, which will significantly affect the profitability of Rough in 2011 and will also alter the economics of our three potential storage development projects if narrow spreads persist.
We took the decision not to proceed at the present time with the Caythorpe onshore storage facility.
Work continues on the Baird project, with Engineer at our Langage gas fired power station in Devon an investment decision expected later in 2011.
Strategic priority 02 delivering value from our upstream business The operational performance of the Upstream UK business was also strong.
Despite lower gas prices at the beginning of the year and the effect of tight market spreads for gas fired generation, operating profit for the business increased by 47%.
This reflected a full years contribution from the Venture acquisition, strong production volumes from the Morecambe field, a full years contribution from our 20% stake in British Energy and the addition Frontera power plant, Texas of Langage to our fleet of gas fired power stations.
Strong optimisation performance also helped Strategic priority 03 to improve our returns.
We also had considerable success in our gas and oil drilling building an integrated programme, with 11 out of 15 wells showing positive results.
During 2011, at least 11 wells are scheduled to be drilled, which North American business will help maintain Centricas position as one of the most active drillers in the North Sea.
We completed the 247 million acquisition of Suncors portfolio of Trinidad and Tobago gas blocks, giving us In North America we have made encouraging progress.
our first producing LNG position, and the 134 million acquisition Downstream performance was particularly strong, with of Shells stake in the Statfjord field.
These acquisitions, combined underlying profitability up 35%.
Upstream profitability with our exploration success and development progress, have however, continues to be adversely affected by low resulted in an increase in reported gas and oil reserves of 9% in our wholesale commodity prices.
We are also investing 450 million to develop Downstream, we have made significant operational progress.
We the York and Ensign gas fields which offer attractive returns.
have improved customer retention and cut the levels of bad debt During the year we took 23 LNG cargoes totalling one billion at our residential energy supply business in Texas.
We have therms into the Isle of Grain, enough to supply around 20% of also successfully launched a prepayment offering, a good our UK residential gas demand.
We were also pleased to sign a example of our ability to apply our UK experience in the North three-year contract with Qatargas in February 2011, which will American market.
We continue to enter new markets in the US secure material volumes of LNG for the UK from Qatar.
The deal will North East and now have over 100,000 customers in Pennsylvania provide enough gas to meet approximately 10% of UK residential and Maryland.
Business energy supply achieved strong growth, gas demand, equivalent to around 2.5 million UK households.
with higher volumes and improved margins through disciplined targeting of our sales activity.
We will continue to focus on improving In power generation, nuclear now makes a significant contribution operational efficiency, using our scale to increase sales in the most to the results of the division.
Although British Energys performance attractive customer segments.
In our services business, where we was adversely affected by an outage at the Sizewell B power faced increased competition in the Canadian market and a slow station, which lasted for approximately six months, the business pace of recovery in the US housing market, we improved efficiency contributed over half of our power generation operating profit.
Following the acquisition of Clockwork in July the We welcomed the announcement of plant life extensions for integration is proceeding well, making Direct Energy the market Hartlepool and Heysham 1 nuclear power stations by five years leader in the home energy services market and providing a robust to 2019.
Work continues on the new nuclear build programme platform for growth through its established franchise model.
with a final investment decision expected in 2012 for Hinkley Point.
In offshore wind, all major contracts have now been awarded on Upstream, the continuing low gas and power price environment the 270MW Lincs joint venture and onshore works have begun, has significantly affected our returns, although this provided an with the wind farm expected to be operational by winter 2012 13. opportunity to acquire gas assets in the Wildcat Hills region of We also welcomed the news that Centrica was awarded exclusive Alberta at an attractive price.
This gave us an additional 241 billion rights to develop up to 4.2GW of wind generation in the For more on For more on our North p14 Centrica Energy p19 American operations 6 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 cubic feet equivalent bcfe of reserves and increased our gas Centrica is distinctive in offering continued growth under a reserves by over 60%.
This transaction improves the level of balanced business model with the flexibility to perform well in both vertical integration in the business, reduces our cost of gas and high and low commodity price environments.
The combination of will allow Direct Energy to meet around 35% of its customers gas strong cash flows with an attractive range of targeted investment demand through its own sources of production.
options underpins the future progress of the business, for the benefit both of our customers and shareholders.
Our power generation business again faced difficult market conditions, with low power prices in Texas affecting the profitability We have a full programme of investment planned for 2011, of our gas fired power stations and our wind power purchase maintaining financial discipline and directing our capital to areas agreements.
We continue to look for value-adding opportunities where the best returns can be achieved.
We plan to invest up to increase our asset cover.
However, we retain a tight focus on to 1.5 billion in organic capital expenditure in 2011 in addition to financial discipline and will only invest where appropriate returns any acquisitions made during the year.
Over two-thirds of the can be achieved.
investment is planned for our UK upstream business, including development of the York, Ensign and Rhyl gas fields together Overall, we have continued to successfully build our North with continuing exploration and appraisal activity.
In power American business during the year, through organic improvements generation, projects will include further works on the Lincs and acquisitions, and are well positioned to make further progress.
offshore wind development and ongoing preparations ahead of the new nuclear investment decision in 2012.
We also continue to invest in our UK downstream businesses, our North American business, the continuous upgrade of our information systems and in new technologies to create the energy efficient homes and businesses of the future.
Sam Laidlaw Chief Executive 24 February 2011 Clockwork offices in Sarasota, Florida Strategic priority 04 driving superior financial returns We have delivered a substantial increase in earnings in 2010, making good progress across each part of the Bastrop power plant, Texas business and we expect to achieve continued growth in 2011.
Market conditions remain competitive, particularly in UK downstream energy supply, with pressure from rising wholesale prices.
However we expect to deliver further improvements in profitability across much of the rest of the Group, building on our progress to date.
Throughout the Business Review, reference is made to a number of different profit measures which are shown in the table below: 2010 2009 Term Explanation m m Adjusted operating profit : Downstream UK 1,216 1,011 The supply of gas, electricity and services for UK residential and business customers Upstream UK 771 525 The production, generation, optimisation and trading of energy in the UK Storage UK 169 168 Gas storage in the UK North America 234 153 Downstream and upstream activities in North America Total adjusted operating profit 2,390 1,857 The principal operating profit measure used by management and used throughout the Operating Review Impact of fair value uplifts 118 27 Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment of Strategic Investments Interest and taxation on joint ventures 78 16 and associates and other costs Group operating profit 2,194 1,814 Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and certain re-measurements, reconciled to statutory profit in the Group Income Statement Group profit 1,221 1,104 Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and certain re-measurements, reconciled to statutory profit in the Group Income Statement Adjusted earnings 1,297 1,111 Earnings before depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments and exceptional items and certain re-measurements, reconciled to statutory profit in note 11 Statutory profit 1,942 856 Profit including discontinued operations, exceptional items and certain re-measurements Including share of joint ventures and associates stated gross of interest and taxation, and before other costs and depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments and exceptional items and certain re-measurements As above, except after other costs and joint ventures and associates stated net of interest and taxation Including share of joint ventures and associates stated net of interest and taxation and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7
