Customer Service 10 We have outstanding people providing the best customer service We had 287 employees in the business at 31 March 2010, and recruiting and retaining the right calibre people remains critical to the continued success of Big Yellow.
We promote the individual development of staff through training and regular appraisals.
Gino Cacioppo Area Support Manager All Managers and Directors aim to learn everyones name and a bit about them.
There is a family culture and a very flat hierarchy where everybody can talk to anyone in the Company.
Heather McGeachy Sally Mandelli Sales Assistant Area Manager The working environment is stimulating and Everybody is valued and I feel very proud to varied, with many opportunities to not only work for Big Yellow.
develop your career, but also reap the benefits of your hard work.
We are very pleased to have been included in the Sunday Times Best 100 Companies to Work For list for 2010, for the second year in a row.
As a consumer facing business the wellbeing of our staff is of paramount importance.
Overall Rating Customer Service from over 2,500 reviews 4.6 5 4.6 5 5 years of excellent service, helpful Always treated very well by the lovely friendly staff, a spotlessly clean staff and found the facility easy to use, environment, what more could anyone clean and open at the times I required want for the storage of their possessions?
I will use Big Yellow as my storage space in the future.
Security Store Quality 4.6 5 4.5 5 Having tried two of the other options The staff at Big Yellow are always I eventually moved to Big Yellow and friendly and helpful.
Ive used the same wished Id started there.
Wonderful new site several times over the past few years location in Poole.
big and they always remember me and lifts, proper security and easy entry exit take the time to chat.
The facility itself is top quality conveniently located Thanks Big Yellow.
with good on-site parking, plenty of trolleys, and a great range of spaces to suit every pocket.
Social Responsibility 12 Corporate Social Responsibility at Big Yellow The Board recognises that high levels of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, linked to clear commercial objectives, will create a more sustainable business and increase shareholder value.
Big Yellow Leads the Way in Sustainable Real Estate Big Yellows CSR Policy commits the Group to striking the balance between its social, economic and environmental responsibilities as an operator and developer of self storage buildings.
In order to continue to develop a sustainable business, the Board has once more committed significant resources to the CSR aspects of its operations.
Big Yellow is continuing to meet its CSR priority of carbon reduction through long term energy efficiency programmes over its whole store portfolio.
This years CSR report is largely based on the social and environmental aspects of our operations and the development of our new store portfolio.
Big Yellow is the leader in the pan European Environmental Real Estate Index and was ranked second globally.
Big Yellow has gained the Carbon Trust Standard by reducing its absolute emissions between the years 2007 to 2009.
Big Yellow claimed 7th position in the How Green is My Company?
part of the Sunday Times Best Companies to Work For survey.
964 companies took part in this survey.
The Carbon Trust Standard for reducing carbon dioxide year on year 2.
Membership of the FTSE4Good environmental and social policy index series 3.
Best Companies to Work For 7th position in How Green is My Company?
Big Yellow supports Cancer Research Twickenham Poole The solar roof panel provides renewable energy The landscape plan was to conserve existing trees for lighting and enhance the shrubbery The energy efficient design, insulation An increase in shrubs and the and contribution from renewable conservation of existing trees enhanced energy has gained this store a net zero local wildlife habitat and the potential carbon Energy Performance Certificate.
Reading Edinburgh The wildlife and habitat riverside landscape The solar panel provides 20% of all of the predicted contributed to the Reading store gaining a electricity requirements BREEAM Excellent rating These solar panels have the largest The biodiversity plan was to enhance capacity second to our Fulham store the banks of the River Kennet adjacent with a predicted energy generation to the store with Bat and Bug boxes.
There are also wood piles for other wildlife refuge.
