Report of the Directors NDDEPEPENDENCE OF TH Au Au Au Au Au Au Au Au ud d di di di di di di di di di it Comm m mii it it it it it it it it it tt t te te te te te te te e ee ef fo ollowing comp t t t t t t t t t the h h h h h h h heCarsbergCo r r r r r r r r rtion of total fe WAS LESS THAN O OOOOOOO NIGHT &RAN T T T T T T T The h Committee to to t t t t t 33 Business review How do we value our property assets?
1 Combined portfolio value p12 What is a valuation?
A valuation is an estimate of the financial value of a property at a particular point in time.
A valuation is based 9.54bn on what a willing buyer would pay a willing seller, in the opinion of the valuer.
The valuer has full access to the Valuation surplus of 10.3% relevant information on each property in the way that a buyer would.
Our properties are revalued every six London Por rt months, covering both investment properties and developments.
Retail Portf fo o o Why is a valuation so important?
Clear, accurate and timely valuations promote transparency in commercial property.
In the UK, we have a highly transparent property market and a well-regarded valuation industry.
Our system of frequent valuations conducted by external valuers compares well with many overseas markets, where shareholders often have to rely on annual Directors valuations.
2 Net assets per share p12 How do valuations affect our measures of financial performance?
691p 16.5% 1 The valuation is a vital component in helping shareholders assess the value of our Company.
It puts a price 2,400 2,100 on all our assets as to their worth.
This also helps a shareholder see how well they have performed every six 1,800 months.
Given this close relationship between asset valuations and financial performance, valuations have 1,500 2 a significant effect on a companys net assets per share.
This is a key indicator of our performance.
1,200 900 600 300 Where else can I see the impact of the valuation in the report 0 06 07 Yea ar Adjusted diluted net dilute ed and accounts?
assets per share Changes to the value of our portfolio are visible in a number of places in the Financial Statements, including 3 4 the income statement, balance sheet and a number of notes.
As we have already highlighted, these 3 Net surplus deficit changes are most clearly visible in our net asset per share measure.
on revaluation of investment properties p94 How are valuations calculated?
Published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS, The Red Book provides valuation standards, 4 32.5 !
"'1"" mandatory rules and best practice guidance for all RICS members undertaking valuations."
valuers follow the standards, rules and guidance set out in this publication.
"When valuing, our external valuers will assess the market value for an asset on the basis that a potential transaction has taken place on the 4 10.6 !2 ', "" valuation date, using the willing buyer, willing seller criteria."
"!, %1- '0"" Who values our portfolio?"
4 Valuation surplus p111 Our valuers are Knight Frank LLP, one of the major valuers in our industry.
They have a national network of offices and the expertise required to value office, retail, retail warehouse and other types of property anywhere in the UK.
"'1"" We monitor the independence of our valuers in three key ways."
First, the total fees paid to Knight Frank 5 by us constitute less than 5% of their total fee income.
Second, our valuers and our external auditors '  PwC are in independent communication throughout the valuation process.
20' 0- ' 746.0 Third, our Audit Committee Chairman and external auditors attend key valuation meetings to ensure 789.2 8,044.3 independence is observed.
For more on valuation and corporate governance please see p72 and 73.
Net asset value per share is calculated by deducting our total liabilities e. g. debt from our total assets e. g. properties and dividing the result by the 5 number of ordinary shares in issue.
