10 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 AEGIS MEDIA Constant BUSINESS REVIEW Change currency m 2010 2009 % % Revenue EMEA 579.7 585.3 1.0 0.4 Americas 189.4 158.6 19.4 14.5 Asia Pacific 117.7 81.3 44.8 34.4 Worldwide 886.8 825.2 7.5 6.8 Operating costs 722.1 674.8 7.0 6.1 Operating profit 164.7 150.4 9.5 9.9 Operating margin 18.6% 18.2% 40 bps 60 bps Mitchell acquisition contributed 12.6m revenue and 2.0m underlying operating profit in 2010 2009 EMEA revenue includes one-off 9.5m insurance recoveries at Aegis Operational Media Germany 2009 Americas revenue includes one-off 10.5m revenue reversal relating to Posterscope USA Throughout this commentary, results are stated on an underlying basis delivery unless otherwise indicated Headlines driven by Organic revenue growth of 5.7% during 2010, including 7.4% in the fourth quarter strong new At constant currency, operating margin increased 60 basis points to 18.6%, with operating profit increasing 9.9% to 164.7m business Businesses in faster-growing regions and North America performed extremely well performance Geographic profile and product range in Asia Pacific strengthened by Mitchell acquisition and Charm joint venture and investment Aegis Medias re-focused Digital revenue up to 32% in 2010, from 31% in 2009 strategic approach Strong global new business performance of $2.0 billion net supported our 2010 new business wins in 2010, with continued momentum performance and will into 2011 continue to do so in In March 2011, Carat upgraded 2011 global advertising the future.
expenditure growth forecast to 5.7% from 4.7% forecast in August 2010.
2010 results overview Aegis Media delivered a strong performance in 2010, which benefited from a re-focused strategic approach, with an emphasis on enhanced digital capabilities, a strengthened geographic profile and an excellent new business performance during the year, with $2.0 billion in net wins, compared to $2.7 billion in 2009, a record year.
This was supported by a number of good operational performances during the year, particularly from our businesses in faster-growing regions and North America.
As a result of these factors, Aegis Media delivered total revenue for the year of 886.8m, an increase of 7.5% at reported rates and 6.8% at constant currency.
Organic revenue increased 5.7% in the year and 7.4% in the fourth quarter.
11 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Quarter Half year Full Year Aegis Media Q110 Q210 Q310 Q410 H110 H210 FY10 Organic revenue change % 3.0 3.6 8.5 7.4 3.4 7.8 5.7 Operating profit increased 9.5% at reported rates and 9.9% at Our geographic scale and network consistency offers constant currency to 164.7m, with operating margin up 40 basis opportunities to develop our international clients, providing points at 18.6% and up 60 basis points at constant currency.
This them with scale, quality, best practice and a coherent was achieved despite total Aegis Media headcount increasing by approach across many markets.
The acquisition of Mitchell in 14.3% as at the end of the year, 5.5% excluding the addition of Australia and our joint venture and investment with Charm in Mitchell employees.
Underlying staff costs increased by 6.7% on China further strengthens our geographic reach, specifically a constant currency basis and total operating costs increased by in Asia Pacific, and provides additional opportunities to 7.0% at reported rates and 6.1% on a constant currency basis.
extend our services to our new clients in that region.
In 2010, we won 99 additional market appointments from our major The increases in headcount and staff costs were partly a result international clients, in new regions or through new service of the addition of the Mitchell business and due to accelerated propositions, including Diageo, Disney, Nokia, Kelloggs and resourcing in Asia Pacific and North America in the second half Panasonic to support strong revenue growth in those regions.
Whilst we continue to expect staff costs to increase in the coming years An excellent new business performance during the year, to match our growth ambitions, management will ensure a with net new business wins of $2.0 billion of billings.
continued focus on cost control and efficiencies.
Importantly, a vibrant contribution from our US business demonstrated the competencies of the new product strategy, Key performance drivers A number of fundamental drivers providing a clearly differentiated service.
2010 also saw the supported Aegis Medias solid performance in 2010, including: emergence of an important trend in the drive to win new A re-focused strategic approach, based on the Power Brand business, with media buying and planning starting to leverage strategy, with the five networks of Carat, Vizeum, Posterscope, opportunities for creative.
In the past, new business initiatives isobar and iProspect providing clients with communications were led by the creative advertising offering, with media being solutions focused on media, ideas, content creation and introduced to the client later on in the relationship to support digital.
These brands operate as one P&L per country a creative campaign.
We are now seeing media buying and providing one operating model and a full range of services planning leading the way and leveraging opportunities for creative, as evidenced by isobar successfully winning the that can be easily integrated, reflecting the needs of clients in digital creative brief across Europe for Kelloggs, which an ever-changing media environment.
The Power Brand consolidated European media with Carat in 2009. strategy will continue to support our business going forward We are increasingly optimistic about the outlook for global Market-leading consumer insight and service solutions, advertising and media expenditure, based on our clients current including our CCS Consumer Connection System, extended indicated advertising budgets for the remainder of 2011.
As into 27 markets in 2010, provides clients with actionable evidence of this, in March 2011 Carat upgraded its global single service brand and product consumer segments.
This, advertising expenditure growth forecast for 2011 to 5.7%, from in combination with our ICP Integrated Communications their forecast of 4.7% published in August 2010.
Planning process has been rigorously embedded across all the networks, providing real added value, insights and Aegis Media EMEA EMEA revenue increased 0.4% at constant consistent best practice across the division currency to 579.7m, supported by a number of strong High quality digital capabilities, comprising isobar, our performances from our businesses across the region, but creative origination network, iProspect, our performance demonstrating the patchy recovery in Western Europe.
Our search marketing network, and our on-line planning and performance across Europe was bolstered by a number of buying, mobile and social media housed within our media pan-European account wins including Deutsche Bank, ING, agencies.
Revenues from these digital capabilities now fide Agostini, Indesit, Kelloggs digital creative account and account for 32% of Aegis Medias revenue and they enable Calvin Kleins digital campaign.
us to utilise a diverse range of platforms for clients The UK delivered good performances across the brands, in Data management and platforms are a key part of our digital particular at our media businesses.
The UK and Ireland secured strategy.
The ever-changing media landscape for our clients a number of important client wins including Anheuser Busch has given rise to an increasing demand for improved InBev, Pfizer, Eircom, Disney Parks and Travelodge, as well as accountability, performance measurement and returns on retaining British Gas, our largest client in the UK market, with investment from their promotional campaigns.
Consequently, a broadened remit to include digital creative.
Our plans to we have ensured that data management and trading consolidate our UK operations and our Group employees into platforms continue to be fully integrated into our product one location remain on track and we expect this re-location to and service offerings be completed during the second half of the year.
BUSINESS REVIEW 12 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 AEGIS MEDIA BUSINESS REVIEW continued Growth in our media businesses in France remained limited Aegis Media Americas Revenues of 189.4m increased 14.5%, during the year, but some of our diversified businesses performed at constant currency, across North America and Latin America.
well, including organic search and sponsorship.
Our new North America delivered an outstanding performance as a result business performance was robust, with new assignments for of management actions which successfully revitalised the Cadom and Canal, as well as the successful retention of our business.
There was strong momentum at our Carat and largest client, the Government of France, for another three years.
iProspect brands, in particular, during the course of the year.
Germany delivered a decent performance during the year, A clear focus on implementing the new product range and a particularly in the fourth quarter.
Client wins during the year significant investment in new talent created a deliverable included the German government and GE Capital Bank.
Our businesses in Italy performed creditably in a challenging Consequently, there were a number of significant new business market, winning some significant in-country accounts including wins in 2010 including Smuckers, Beiersdorf, Sears search CoGeDi and teletu.
business, Red Bull, Relativity Media and Diageo.
At the end of 2010, we successfully renewed our contract with Pfizer, our The Spanish market remained relatively muted during the largest account in the region, following the addition of the course of 2010.
However, our business closed the year with the Wyeth media account earlier in the year.
retention of BMW and several new client wins including Grupo San Miguel Mahou as well as France Telecom Oranges digital Latin America also produced a strong performance, driven by creative business.
Negotiations continue with Nueva Rumasa, Mexico, which won the Electronic Arts account across the region, our former client which filed for pre-insolvency protection in and by our creative origination business in Brazil.
Spain last month, to recover our outstanding debt.
Aegis Media Asia Pacific Our Asia Pacific businesses produced There were strong performances across the board in the Nordic a strong set of results, with revenue up 34.4% at constant region, in particular in Sweden, Denmark and Finland.
Excluding the revenue contribution from business wins across the region included Sony Music, Citigroup Mitchell of 12.6m, revenue was up 20.0% at constant currency.
Our largest business in the region, China, was again a key driver Central and Eastern Europe continued to perform well, of our performance, supported by another strong performance particularly our businesses in Russia and Turkey.
New business from our existing agencies there.
In addition, the joint venture wins across the region included Russia Post, OBI, Ferrero, between Vizeum and Charm Communications Inc Charm Samsung, Megafon and MTS.
We won several important clients, including Xian Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Bulgari, Orion and The Middle East delivered strong results, supported by a new Wyeth and retained the Kraft-Cadbury account.
management team which restructured and revitalised our businesses there, winning a number of high profile local and Our business in Australia delivered strong results, winning some multi-national clients in 2010.
We secured several important high profile accounts, including Kraft-Cadbury and Disney.
In regional extensions of existing international client accounts November, we completed the acquisition of Mitchell, Australias including Nokia across 19 markets across the Middle East and leading marketing communications agency, which transforms North Africa.
We secured a number of other regional extensions our market position to the number one player in Australia and to of global clients in Africa, including Procter & Gamble and BMW.
a competitive top three position across the Asia Pacific region.
Across the region, South Africa performed particularly well, We maintained a strong retention record across the region, securing a good mix of international and local new business extending our relationships with the likes of Procter & Gamble, wins during the year.
Summary Our performance in 2010 benefited from a refocused strategic approach, based on the Power Brand strategy, our strengthened geographic profile and our excellent new business performance during the year.
This was supported by solid operational performances from our businesses in fastergrowing regions and North America in particular.
As a consequence of our increasing confidence in the outlook for the sector, supported by the new business momentum achieved so far in 2011, we are increasingly optimistic about Aegis Medias short term prospects.
Jerry Buhlmann Chief Executive Officer, Aegis Media
