Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 11:56 Page 13 Our background Our strategy Today, Londons reputation as a world centre of creativity in the visual and Shaftesbury listed on the London Stock Our investment strategy is to focus applied arts has never been greater.
Whilst our initial exclusively on Londons West End with no coincidence that our investment and strategy was geographically UK wide, the objective of delivering growing and regeneration initiatives in Soho, Covent sustainable net rental income over the long our current investment focus developed Garden, Chinatown and Charlotte Street as a result of our experiences during the term, which will underpin growth in our are where the West Ends creative quarters distributions to shareholders and growth recession in the early 1990s.
At that time originated and have flourished for over we found that although there was in in the value of our property assets.
300 years since they moved westward general little demand for property following the Great Fire.
We achieve growth through investing: investments and capital values fell, tenant demand continued and rents All of our investments are adjacent to or Solely in a location where demand and remained stable in the 32 buildings we within walking distance of Londons rents have demonstrated great had owned in Chinatown since the principal visitor attractions.
We foster resilience over many years: formation of the Company.
well known Villages such as Carnaby and Chinatown and, within Covent Garden, In local areas and properties within With that experience and local the distinctive quarters of Seven Dials, the West End which have, or have knowledge we sold all of our assets St Martins Courtyard a joint venture potential for, predominantly retail and outside the West End and since 1993 we with The Mercers Company, Opera leisure uses: have steadily added to our holdings in Quarter and Coliseum.
In 1994 we made our first With the objective of creating invested in Charlotte Street, a long acquisitions in Covent Garden and significantly higher income through established restaurant district, and more Carnaby.
In 1996, funded in part by two change of use and refurbishment, recently, in and around Berwick Street, Rights Issues, we acquired the Island often starting with run down areas Sohos local high street.
Site in Chinatown and the majority of and under-managed or dilapidated what now comprises our Carnaby Our strategy is to combine change with buildings and where rental levels are Village.
In late 2005 we entered into our continuity.
We improve accommodation initially modest: joint venture with the Mercers Company and encourage mixed uses to create as well as acquiring the Opera Quarter.
In buildings which offer the flexibility lively areas.
Within our ownerships we These transactions have formed the to provide a variety of commercial and seek to improve the local environment in backbone of our investment strategy.
residential uses and are less prone to partnership with local authorities to obsolescence: attract greater footfall.
Today our wholly owned holdings in the West End cover more than 11 acres of To establish clusters of ownerships All our investments are within fifteen freeholds across 500 buildings extending which allow us to create distinctive minutes walk of our office, so we have to 1.5 million sq.
This includes 453,000 destinations, particularly through the an unrivalled knowledge of our locations.
ft. of restaurants, bars and leisure space, management of tenant mix, bringing Being on the spot we can act very 394,000 sq.
ft. of retail accommodation, greater footfall and prosperity: quickly.
We are on site every day and we 424,000 sq.
ft. of offices and 345 apartments have regular contact with our tenants, the over 233,000 sq.
The Longmartin Joint Using our forensic knowledge of the local community and other stakeholders.
Venture, in which we have a 50% interest, areas in which we operate to adapt owns a 1.9 acre island site in Covent and manage our assets effectively and A commitment to the local community Garden with 215,000 sq.
ft. of mixed use intensively: is an integral aspect of our strategy.
We commercial space and 54,000 sq.
ft. of support a number of charities and residential accommodation.
In the local environment and community initiatives associated with the arts, to create safe and welcoming areas for social issues and community projects Our cumulative investment in our portfolio, our tenants, their customers and local that have to be located in the West End including acquisitions and refurbishment residents.
but need backing to be there.
We expenditure which, amounted to 885.2 provide accommodation in our buildings million by 30 September 2010, is now A key aspect of our success is Londons on preferential terms so that these valued at almost 1.5 billion.
prosperity and growth and, in particular, organisations are able to be close to Londons reputation as the worlds most their key stakeholders.
We are now popular city for visitors.
Tourists from actively encouraging these organisations across the UK as well as from overseas are to explore joint programmes and shared increasingly attracted by the exceptional facilities.
Their activities and specialist vitality and diversity of the West End.
knowledge are invaluable to the prosperity Recent research has indicated that some and security of the West End and 200 million visitors travel into the West provide us with useful insights on how End each year, of which 25% are from to adapt our plans for the long term overseas and 21% are from the rest of the benefit of our own business and the UK outside the south east.
It is reassuring local community.
that almost 80% of those interviewed continue to give their principal reasons for visiting the West End as sightseeing, shopping, eating out, the performing arts as well as galleries and museums.
79% rated their visit as good or very good with West End theatre achieving the strongest individual response.
13 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 business review business review Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 11:56 Page 14 Our current strategy is one of expansion A reliable, safe and integrated public All of our investments are in Conservation transport system is essential to the Areas and many are listed as a conseqacross all of our Villages, although the timing and nature of our acquisitions prosperity of London as many millions uence of their historic and architectural travel in and out daily.
Together with the intricate can be unpredictable and opportunistic.
Some changes in our portfolio are new rail projects such as Crossrail is to variety of uses and their historic street be welcomed.
However, construction is patterns, this contributes to a lively and emerging: lengthy and can cause considerable vibrant atmosphere in our Villages.
This Demand is particularly strong for our disruption in the short term.
Less valuable historic environment presents larger and more modern shops and heralded, but of equal importance and us with particular challenges: offices centred in Carnaby and St of more immediate benefit, are on-going Martins Courtyard in Covent Garden: The average age of our buildings is improvements to the existing underground over 125 years and many have elements and overground networks as well as the Restaurants, bars and cafes 33% of which date from the seventeenth and new and popular London Cycle Hire our wholly owned income are becoming eighteenth centuries.
For example, improvements in more significant in our portfolio, with and an imaginative approach, together rail transport from the east of London, our holdings increasingly clustered with advice from specialist consultants, and in particular Stratford, will reduce around the theatres and cinemas in we introduce improvements and uses journey times between the West End Covent Garden and near Chinatown: which further extend the economic and the Olympic park to only twenty lives of our buildings whilst retaining minutes.
The current reconstruction and Conversions of smaller, older offices to their character.
Londons traditional substantial extension of Tottenham Court apartments across our portfolio are terraced buildings are surprisingly Road station as part of the Crossrail project increasing, especially in Covent Garden.
flexible in their layout and we endeavour will make this station an important to make our buildings easily adaptable gateway to the West End and improve Portfolio activity to a number of potential uses and layouts.
access to Covent Garden to the south More properties of interest have come and Charlotte Street to the north.
Working closely with English Heritage for sale this year and continue to and Westminster City Council we are do so.
We have acquired properties We work closely with Westminster City now exploring a number of initiatives to Council and the London Borough of totalling 65.3 million during the year improve the environmental performance and have more under negotiation.
Camden, within whose jurisdictions our of our historic buildings.
We seek to properties are located, to improve the By value 70% were in Covent Garden, preserve the embodied energy within with the remainder in Berwick Street public realm in and around our Villages, these valuable existing structures whilst particularly the streets, pavements and and Charlotte Street.
Our acquisitions introducing energy saving features.
included fourteen restaurants and lighting.
We promote and make substantial financial contributions to cafes and seven shops, with mainly As a consequence of the prosperity of offices above.
schemes which prioritise the needs of the West End, there is strong demand pedestrians.
These initiatives greatly across all our areas.
This allows us to As we generally let our shops and improve access and safety as well as experiment with new ideas and foster restaurants in shell form, the costs of increasing footfall and dwell time.
This change by encouraging new retail fitting out and obsolescence which we year schemes have been completed at concepts into our Villages.
We offer incur are modest.
Consequently capital Lisle Street and Wardour Street in smaller shops on flexible leases which expenditure during the year on our Chinatown and at Kingly Street in enables tenants to satisfy themselves of wholly owned portfolio was 9.7 million Carnaby.
We are discussing further the viability of their ideas without any 2009: 10.3 million representing only public realm improvements with both initial long term commitment.
local authorities although, in the current designed Kingly Court in Carnaby for financial climate, public funding is just such retailers and it has been St Martins Courtyard, our mixed use becoming more restricted.
joint venture with The Mercers Company, increasingly successful as a location for new ventures, some of which have has now opened to the public.
The scheme is completing in phases, with progressed to take larger shops from us.
the final office accommodation due to be finished by the end of December 2010.
Our share of capital expenditure was 12.8 million in the year ended 30 September 2010 and, in the current financial year, our share of the costs to complete the scheme will be approximately 5.0 million.
Once again the value of commercial lettings in our wholly owned portfolio has been very healthy.
During the year we let commercial space with a rental value of 4.1 million per annum, compared with an average of 3.0 million over the previous three years.
Our lettings this year comprised 2.4 million of shops, 0.6 million of restaurants and 1.1 million of offices.
14 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 business review Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 11:56 Page 15 At 30 September 2010 the rental value Our wholly owned portfolio Our office space remains integral to our of wholly owned vacant commercial mixed use Villages.
Whilst demand for Our wholly owned portfolio at 30 accommodation held for or under offices is cyclical, lettings of offices September 2010 included 315 shops refurbishment was 1.8 million 2009: across our portfolio have improved during extending to 394,000 sq.
This represented 2.6% of the year and continue to do so.
Recent 37% of current income, have an average the estimated rental value of the purchases and the construction of rent of 78,000 per annum and an commercial elements of our wholly additional new offices at 36 39 Carnaby average unexpired lease term of five years.
The estimated rental Street have slightly increased the total of We have no large shops estimated value of accommodation vacant and our office space this year.
rental value over 100,000 per annum available for letting amounted to 1.1 ready to let other than two units at our The size and types of offices vary in each million 2009: 2.1 million, equivalent to development at 36 39 Carnaby Street, Village.
Our relatively larger average size 1.6% of the estimated rental value of the where already we have strong demand.
ft. and more modern offices are commercial elements of our wholly Of the remaining eighteen smaller shops located in Carnaby and are mainly let to owned properties.
Almost half of this at the year end, eight were under offer, fashion and media related businesses.
In available space was under offer at the ten were to let and one was being contrast, demand for offices in Chinatown year end.
These historically low vacancies refurbished.
is for small areas average size 600 sq.
ft. reflect healthy demand across all uses and for solicitors, accountants and other encourage us to seek vacant possession Whilst demand for shops remains advisors to the East Asian community.
of any space where we see potential for strong, lease lengths particularly of the improvement.
smaller units are becoming shorter.
As Residential accommodation, which demand exceeds supply, we use short provides 9% of our current income, At the year end, only four of our 311 and flexible leases actively to manage continues to grow within our portfolio.
wholly owned apartments were vacant tenant changes.
We believe this approach We have created many of our apartments and ready to let.
This is typical of the has benefits for the tenant and provides by conversion from smaller offices, high level of occupancy we have seen us with the ability quickly to introduce particularly those which cannot be throughout the year.
A further 34 were new retailers and concepts.
refurbished to standards expected by under construction, principally as a result todays office occupiers.
Our policy is to of changes from office use, with a rental Our 189 restaurants, cafes, bars and rent rather than sell our apartments.
value on completion of approximately clubs extending to 453,000 sq.
ft. are an This provides us with the maximum 0.9 million per annum.
increasingly important element of our flexibility in the long term management business, providing 33% of current Our share of the estimated rental value of our investments, where typically the income in our wholly owned portfolio.
majority of the value is in the shops and of commercial and residential space at 44 of our 100 largest tenants are restaurant St Martins Courtyard has increased restaurants on the lower floors.
Catering leases are often we do sell individual apartments in during the year to 5.4 million per initially 25 years and, at the year end, the annum 2009: 5.1 million per annum.
average unexpired term was 13 years.
It 81% of the commercial space by rental is rare that we are able to secure vacant Of our 345 apartments, 311 are complete value was contracted or under offer at possession of restaurants or cafes, as and 34 are under construction.
We are now just tenants investment in our properties value of the 34 under construction is 0.9 beginning to market the remaining 30 and the restrictions placed on this million per annum.
We have identified apartments, which represent 10% of planning use in our locations mean the potential for up to 40 more units, principally the schemes rental value.
Preliminary leases are very valuable for the tenant as by conversion from office use, which we indications suggest they will let readily.
At 30 September will progress over the current year.
2010 two small units were under offer and one cafe was being refurbished.
Vacant commercial space at 30 September 2010 wholly owned portfolio only Held for or under Restaurants Percentage of refurbishment Shops and leisure Offices Total total ERV Estimated rental value - million 0.9 0.1 0.8 1.8 2.6% Area - 000 sq.
Just east of Regent Street it Valuation 506.8 million space.
Recently we have finished extends across twelve streets.
It has one such scheme at 27 28 Kingly Percentage of portfolio 34% many of our larger shops and modern Street where we have pre-let the shop offices for which demand remains Acquisitions during the year 2.0 million 8,000 sq.
ft., most of the offices and very strong.
Capital expenditure during the year 5.4 million Responding to the demand for larger At 12 13 Kingly Street basement and units, we have started to redevelop ground floor offices have been Capital value return 12.7% 36 39 Carnaby Street.
The scheme converted and let as a restaurant, includes 9,000 sq.
ft. of retail and which has just opened.
Demolition of Some of the most historic areas in sq.
ft. % of current the original buildings, excavations Carnaby Village are the small streets Number 000 gross income and groundworks are now complete and passages immediately to the and construction will start in January Shops 128 181 48 east of Carnaby in our Newburgh 2011.
The shops should be finished Quarter.
Here small, period properties Restaurants, cafes and leisure 36 78 14 within nine months, and the offices provide a particularly attractive setting by the end of 2011, somewhat earlier Offices tenancies 164 244 34 both for multi-national retailers for than we had originally anticipated.
their niche concepts as well as for The total cost of the scheme is Residential 66 44 4 independent traders.
There is demand in Newburgh Quarter has already very strong interest to pre-let increased appreciably during the year the shops.
assisted by our marketing initiatives We are now discussing with and the re-opening of the nearby Westminster City Council further Marshall Street leisure centre.
connected phases to redevelop We are continuing to evaluate 14 18 Fouberts Place and 22 25 opportunities for increasing and Kingly Street with a mix of restaurant, reconfiguring retail space within retail, offices and residential.
Carnaby to adapt to changing Reconstruction of Kingly Street, demand, together with further providing a single surface with high conversions of offices to residential quality granite finish, is almost use.
Although much of the area is complete.
The street is now traffic now pedestrianised, we are currently free between 11am and 8pm, making discussing with Westminster City it a much more pedestrian-friendly Council improvements to Ganton environment.
This will enable us to Street which would enhance this improve and change the use of busy street in the heart of Carnaby.
several of the buildings which we Covent Garden six restaurants and four shops with Covent Garden Statistics wholly owned offices above, acquired for a total of Whilst our wholly owned investments Valuation 420.7 million 47.8 million during the year.
All have in Covent Garden represent 28% of a number of interesting medium our property assets, when our 50% Percentage of portfolio 28% term opportunities for improvement.
interest in the Longmartin Joint Acquisitions during the year 47.8 million Venture is included, it represents Seven Dials with its broad appeal 35%, making Covent Garden for the continues to attract new retailers to Capital expenditure during the year 2.8 million first time our largest investment add to the diverse and interesting Capital value return 13.0% district.
In common with our other Villages, vacancies remain at With the areas historic origins and an historic low across all uses.
containing half of the West Ends 38 Area Following the success of the street theatres, Covent Garden retains an sq.
ft. % of current improvements in Monmouth Street, alternative atmosphere which is very Number 000 gross income we are currently discussing with distinct from the rest of the West End.
Shops 108 130 40 Camden Council proposals for traffic It also includes a long established management and repaving in Earlham and flourishing residential community Restaurants, cafes and leisure 69 147 30 Street west, an important pedestrian which is expanding.
We have carried route between Soho and Seven Dials.
Offices tenancies 75 100 16 out a significant number of schemes to convert offices to residential accoWe have increased our investment in Residential 148 99 14 mmodation in recent years.
The floor the Opera Quarter, which is becoming areas of office and residential space increasingly popular following the are now almost equal in this Village.
introduction of better quality operators.
Our latest scheme comprising a preIn the year ended 30 September 2010 let restaurant and nine apartments is most of our purchases have been in nearing completion.
These have included 23 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 business review Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:02 Page 24 Something Hells Kingly Court Carnaby 24 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:03 Page 25 25 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:03 Page 26 Chinatown Westminster City Councils works to Chinatown Statistics the Chinatown section of Wardour Chinatown represents 25% of our Valuation 363.9 million Street, together with much of Lisle property assets where 64 restaurants Street, were completed during the and 59 shops provide 86% of its Percentage of portfolio 25% summer.
in these streets is now much improved, Acquisitions during the year 1.7 million encouraging visitor access to Chinatown, with its high concentration Capital expenditure during the year 0.8 million Chinatown from Coventry Street, of restaurants at the heart of the which reputedly has the highest West End, is benefitting from the Capital value return 13.0% footfall of any street in Europe.
increasing number of visitors to London, especially from China and The redevelopment of Leicester the Far East.
Our properties remain Area Square, immediately to the south of fully let and tenant defaults are rare.
ft. % of current Chinatown, is about to commence.
We continue to see steady progress Number 000 gross income With a budget of 10 million this will in rental income and values.
As a Shops 59 57 24 be the West Ends most significant consequence of the predominance public realm improvement scheme of non-office uses, capital expenditure, Restaurants, cafes and leisure 64 182 62 since Trafalgar Square in 2003. which this year amounted to 0.8 Together with the opening of an Offices tenancies 71 43 7 million, remains exceptionally low in important new hotel on the site of relation to the size of our investment.
Residential 83 51 7 the former Swiss Centre, this will undoubtedly add to the prosperity of the area.
Berwick Street We continue to add to our holdings Berwick Street Statistics and this year our purchases included We have chosen to invest in Berwick Valuation 52.6 million six shops and three restaurants.
Street because, although at the heart of Soho and with good footfall, Percentage of portfolio 4% We intend to acquire and refurbish buildings and the public realm are additional properties as they become dilapidated, ownership and tenant mix Acquisitions during the year 11.0 million available.
Extending our ownership are disparate, and as a consequence will allow us to advance our ideas for Capital expenditure during the year 0.7 million rental levels are modest.
the street by developing a cohesive Capital value return 17.0% strategy for a broad mix of retailers The southern end of Berwick Street that particularly reflects the needs of and the areas immediately to the the local residential and working west are dominated by publicly owned Area communities and the traditions of buildings which are either empty or sq.
Retaining its character as are in poor repair, having lacked Number 000 gross income Sohos local high street, this village investment in recent years.
This gives Shops 17 19 20 will have a wider retail mix and a the area a shabby atmosphere which different atmosphere when compared contributes to the vacancies within Restaurants, cafes and leisure 919 33 with our other Villages.
Berwick Street market and in adjacent Offices tenancies 33 27 31 buildings.
We support Westminster City Councils designation of Berwick Residential 27 18 16 Street as an Action Area, which will stimulate investment in the area as a whole.
Charlotte Street With major investment planned by Charlotte Street Statistics others in many of the adjacent streets It is some seven years since we first Valuation 31.0 million as well as considerable activity around identified this neighbourhood at the Tottenham Court Road, we are now southern end of Charlotte Street, Percentage of portfolio 2% adding to our holdings.
with its concentration of restaurants Acquisitions during the year 4.8 million and cosmopolitan atmosphere, as a suitable location for long term Capital expenditure during the year 0.1 million investment.
Although in recent years we have found ourselves being outbid, Capital value return 11.0% our patience is now bearing fruit as properties are becoming available at Area sensible prices.
ft. % of current Number 000 gross income Shops 37 3 Restaurants, cafes and leisure 11 27 59 Offices tenancies 810 19 Residential 21 11 19 26 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 business review Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:03 Page 27 Longmartin Joint Venture At 30 September 2010, 81% of the We are considering further upcommercial space by rental value grading of office accommodation in Our Longmartin Joint Venture with had been let, pre-let or was under Wellington House, together with The Mercers Company owns a offer.
This includes sixteen of the 22 schemes to improve other unmodern- 1.9 acre island site on the corner of shops, all the restaurants and 76% of ised properties adjacent to St Martins Long Acre and Upper St Martins the offices.
Lane, close to Leicester Squares underground station.
Following completion of construction works, the remaining 30 apartments St Martins Courtyard, our redevelopwithin the scheme are now being ment and regeneration project which marketed and should let readily.
fronts Long Acre, Upper St Martins We expect that by Spring 2011 Lane and Mercer Street is now the remaining vacant commercial substantially complete.
The final space in the scheme will have been phase, comprising offices which substantially let.
have been pre-let, is expected to be completed by the end of 2010, some four months later than expected.
St Martins Courtyard Let or pre-let Under offer Remaining Total Shops Number 14 2 6 22 Area 000 sq.
ft. 49 3 16 68 Rental value million 3.7 0.1 1.0 4.8 Restaurants Number 4 1 - 5 and leisure Area 000 sq.
ft. 3 - 22 25 Rental value million 0.1 - 1.1 1.2 Total rental value million 7.0 0.9 2.9 10.8 Adjacent Properties Being refurbished Let Under offer or to let Total Shops Number 1 - - 1 Area 000 sq.
ft. 2 - - 2 Current rental income million 0.2 - - 0.2 Restaurants Number 3 - - 3 and leisure Area 000 sq.
ft. 17 - - 17 Current rental income million 0.8 - - 0.8 Offices Area 000 sq.
ft. 22 - 7 29 Current rental income million 0.4 - 0.2 0.6 Residential Number 39 - 2 41 Area 000 sq.
ft. 28 - 1 29 Current rental income million 0.7 - - 0.7 Total current rental income million 2.0 - 0.3 2.3 Shaftesbury Group has a 50% interest in the figures shown in these tables 27 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 business review Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:03 Page 28 The Covent Garden Academy of Flowers Slingsby Place St Martins Courtyard 28 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:04 Page 29 29 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:04 Page 30 The Powder Room Marshall Street Carnaby 30 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:04 Page 31 31 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:05 Page 32 continue to monitor opportunities Results We are bearing a greater proportion of service charge expenditure, particularly to restructure our swaps as market Our profit before taxation for the year, sentiment changes.
in our lettings of smaller offices and adjusted as shown on page 4 to eliminate the smallest shops, and also as a result the surplus realised on property disposals The tax charge on the adjusted profit for of the increasing amount of residential and the fair valuation movements in the year was 0.2 million, unchanged accommodation in our portfolio.
respect of investment properties and from last year, and arises solely in our financial derivatives, amounted to 22.3 Administration expenses include a Joint Venture.
Longmartin remains outside million, an increase of 4.7%, compared the Groups REIT election, so that our charge of 1.7 million 2009: 0.7 million with an adjusted profit of 21.3 million in in respect of equity settled remuneration.
share of its results continues to be subject the previous year.
The profit on ordinary to provisions for corporation tax and The accounting charge in respect of activities before taxation reported in share options has increased by 0.8 deferred tax liabilities.
the Group Statement of Comprehensive million to 1.3 million as our portfolio Adjusted diluted post-tax earnings per Income amounted to 171.9 million and our share price continues to outshare for the current year amounted to 2009: loss 58.1 million.
perform, increasing the likelihood of 9.7p compared with 11.2p last year, a vesting of performance-based share Our rental income has continued to rise, reduction of 13.4%.
The charge for employers with rents receivable across the Group have risen compared with last year, we national insurance liability on share adjusted for lease incentives increasing have a greater number of shares in issue awards and share options has increased from 61.7 million to 65.7 million, an following the Rights Issue in June 2009. by 0.2 million to 0.4 million as a result increase of 4.0 million.
For the wholly The unadjusted diluted post-tax earnings of the rise in the Companys share price owned Group, after eliminating the impact per share shown in the Group Statement over the year and the expectation that of property acquisitions and disposals, of Comprehensive Income for the current more options will vest in the coming years.
rents invoiced increased by 3.0% this year amounted to 73.0p compared with year compared with the previous year Interest payable, including settlements a loss per share last year of 31.3p.
under interest rate derivative contracts, Unadjusted shareholders funds at the amounted to 27.2 million, compared The Group has not experienced any year end shown in the Group Balance with 26.6 million in the previous year.
increase in tenant defaults over the year, Sheet totalled 863.7 million, an increase Short term interest rates have remained with a charge in the Group Statement of over the year of 146.4 million.
Adjusting at unprecedented low levels throughout Comprehensive Income of 0.5 million these amounts to exclude the fair value the year.
Although this has increased the 2009: 0.5 million in respect of bad and of financial derivatives and the deferred cost of settlements under our 360 million doubtful debts.
The amount of vacant tax arising on property revaluations in of interest swap contracts, we are space, already low, has reduced further the Longmartin Joint Venture, our benefitting from these low rates on our over the year.
adjusted net asset value becomes 948.2 unhedged floating rate bank debt of million, equivalent to a diluted net asset 94.5 million.
Currently our marginal cost Our share of the current rental income in value per share of 4.14 per share 2009: of additional bank debt is around 1.5%.
the Longmartin Joint Venture, where the 763.4 million equivalent to 3.35 per St Martins Courtyard scheme is now Net interest payable was covered share, an increase of 184.8 million.
almost complete, has increased by 0.7 1.8 times by operating profit before million to 2.2 million during the year.
As Dividends investment property disposals and units are handed over to tenants and valuation movements 2009: 1.8 times.
Distributions charged in the Group further lettings are completed, our share Based on the interest cover covenants Statement of Comprehensive Income of Longmartins income will rise rapidly and definitions contained in our banking this year amounted to 22.2 million, or in the current financial year.
agreements, net interest payable was 9.75p per share.
This compares with a covered 2.1 times by net property The increase in the Groups property total distribution last year of 18.3 income 2009: 2.1 times, compared with outgoings this year of 0.9 million to 8.1 million, or 13.5p per share, paid on our the minimum ratio of 1.5 times we are million 2009: 7.2 million arose mainly share capital prior to the Rights issue in required to maintain.
REIT legislation in the first half and is principally June 2009. requires us to maintain a minimum ratio attributable to: A final dividend in respect of the year of net rental income for properties in the ended 30 September 2010 of 5.25p per Obtaining vacant possession during REIT group against attributable interest the year of buildings, particularly in share, amounting to 11.9 million will be payable of 1.25 times.
The ratio this year proposed at the 2011 Annual General Carnaby, for important new schemes, was approximately 1.8 times.
which has both reduced our income Meeting.
This will result in total With market expectations that interest distributions in respect of the financial and increased non-recoverable costs rates will remain at current low levels for in the short term.
We do not capitalise year of 23.3 million.
This compares with some time, the fair value deficit of our our adjusted profit after tax of 22.1 property outgoings or interest incurred long term interest rate swaps has in our schemes.
million which this year has been reduced increased by 34.4 million to 80.5 by the additional accounting charge for With uncertainty continuing in the million at the year end.
This non-cash equity settled remuneration arising from wider economy we have increased accounting provision, which is excluded the continuing out-performance of our marketing expenditure, with a number of in the calculation of our banking portfolio and our share price.
new initiatives to promote each of our covenants, will gradually reverse as Villages to both domestic and overseas interest rates return to their long term The interim dividend was paid, and final retailers and visitors.
In Carnaby we historic averages.
We can see no dividend will be paid entirely as Property organised a number of events to mark commercial benefit at present in Income Distributions PID.
Real Estate the 50th anniversary of the start of the terminating any of our interest rate Investment Trust legislation broadly Swinging Sixties, when the street hedging, which would involve crystallising requires us to distribute of a minimum of first came to international prominence.
However we 90% of net rental income, calculated by 32 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 business review Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:05 Page 33 our debt, at rates which we believe will reference to tax rather than accounting At the year end committed bank facilities rules.
Our distributions are in excess of totalled 575.0 million, unchanged over prove attractive once rates return to their historic averages, outweighs this this minimum amount.
With continuing the year, with a weighted average growth in our rental income, together maturity of 6.6 years 2009: 7.6 years.
with an increased contribution from our Committed unutilised facilities at the The deficit arising on the fair value of Longmartin Joint Venture from 2011, we year end totalled 119.3 million 2009: the Groups long term Debenture debt, expect to maintain steady growth in our 213.8 million.
which is not reflected in our results, dividends, fully covered in future by amounted to 13.6 million which has The average margin over LIBOR we paid adjusted annual post-tax profits.
on amounts drawn from our bank increased over the year by 2.8 million as a result of the decline in long term facilities at the year end was 0.76%.
If we Finance fully drew all of our facilities, the interest rates, particularly in the latter Our strategy is to secure flexible long months of the year.
weighted average margin we would pay and medium term debt finance together would be 0.81%.
These margins, which are The Group has no legal obligation to with non-speculative hedging of the fixed throughout the terms of our present crystallise these non-cash fair value interest rate exposure on a substantial facilities, are much lower than would be deficits by early refinancing of its fixed portion of our floating rate debt.
This obtainable for similar arrangements in rate debt or early termination of its finance strategy is intended to match current debt markets.
interest rate hedges, but may consider our funding with our assets which are doing so where there is a clear economic held for long term investment, and to We have fixed rate hedging in place on benefit to the business.
provide reasonable certainty of finance 360.0 million of our 455.7 million of costs whilst limiting the Groups exposure floating rate bank debt, leaving 21% The Board monitors both actual to adverse movements in interest rates.
The rates range from 4.59% to and forecast performance against the 5.15% excluding margin with a weighted financial covenants contained in the The Board keeps under review the level of average rate at the year end of 4.87%.
Groups bank facilities and Debenture current and forecast debt and the Groups The hedging contracts have weighted trust deed.
Each of our facilities is strategies regarding the appropriate average maturity of 22.4 years 2009: secured against designated property levels of debt and equity finance, the 23.4 years.
assets and in addition each of the lenders, maturity profile of loan facilities and including the Debenture trustee, have a interest rate exposure and hedging.
At the year end, reflecting both our shared floating charge over the assets of hedged and unhedged bank debt, the The nominal value of debenture and the parent company and its wholly weighted average cost of bank borrowings bank borrowings at the year end totalled owned subsidiaries.
including margin was 4.74%, compared 516.7 million, an increase of 94.5 million with 5.30% at the previous year end.
The outstanding Debenture stock of over the year.
Cash outflows during the Including our long term Debenture debt, 61.0 million is secured by a first charge on year on acquisitions, less capital receipts, our overall weighted cost of debt at 30 property assets, where we must maintain amounted to 70.2 million.
a minimum value of 150% of the stock on the Groups portfolio totalled 22.7 outstanding, and where the net rental million, of which our share of the At 30 September 2010, the fair value income has to match the coupon of 8.5%.
Longmartin Joint Venture accounted for of the Groups interest rate derivatives We are comfortably in excess of these 14.3 million.
Revenue operations after represented a liability of 80.5 million covenants based on assets currently net interest payments produced a net 2009: 46.1 million.
cash surplus of 26.4 million, compared taking long term, fixed rate swaps leads with 20.6 million in the previous year.
to greater volatility in this non-cash Our banking covenants are structured Tax payments, which totalled 7.4 million mark-to-market calculation, particularly on a Group-wide basis and are broadly 2009: 7.2 million, included 7.2 million in the current environment of similar for each of our facilities.
The in respect of the settlement of our 2007 unprecedentedly low interest rates.
The financial covenants, together with their REIT conversion charge liability.
At the commercial certainty of fixing our status at 30 September 2010, were as year end 3.8 million of this liability interest costs on a substantial portion of shown below.
remained to be settled by January 2011.
Gearing at the year end, calculated by reference to our adjusted net assets Bank covenants and status at 30 September 2010 referred to above and the nominal rather Status at than book value of our debenture and Financial covenant Covenant level 30 September 2010 net bank debt, was 55% 2009: 55%.
The ratio of the nominal value of debenture Ratio of Group net property and net bank debt to the market value of income to Group net our property assets was 35% 2009: 35%.
interest payable Minimum of 1.5:1 2.1:1 We monitor our overall committed Actual borrowings 33% based on total facilities at all times to ensure we from each lender as a bank borrowings have sufficient resources to meet our percentage of property available assets future cash flow commitments with assets charged as security Not to exceed 66.67% as across the Group comfortable headroom and we operate Percentage of Group borrowings well within our banking covenants.
Any compared to Group shareholders new prospective commitments, such as property acquisitions, are considered in funds adjusted to exclude any the light of funding currently available fair value accounting provisions to the Group.
for interest rate derivatives Maximum of 175% 55% 33 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 business review Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:05 Page 34 Based on the results for the year ended Property values generally recovered sharply 30 September 2010, net property income over the year, particularly in the first half.
Risk and impact could fall by approximately 17 million As our portfolio had previously declined by Property valuations equivalent to 29% of this years Group a much lower percentage from the start The valuation of all property assets includes assumptions regarding net property income before the interest of the decline in the property market in income expectations and yields that investors would expect to cover covenant was reached.
Based on 2007, it is unsurprising that we have not achieve on those assets over time.
Many external economic and the year end property valuations and out-performed our benchmark this year.
market factors, such as interest rate expectations, bond yields, the debt levels, property values across the Taking 1 October 2007 as the start of the availability and cost of finance and the relative attraction of property Group would have to decline by around present cycle in property markets, our against other asset classes, could lead to a reappraisal of the 44% before we reach our loan to value assumptions used to arrive at current valuations.
In adverse portfolio declined in value over the three or gearing covenant limits.
The actual conditions this reappraisal can lead to a reduction in property values years to 30 September 2010 by 5.6%, future headroom on covenants will and a loss in net asset value, amplified by the effect of gearing.
Such compared with a fall of 33.9% recorded by be affected by a number of factors, reduction in property values and loss of net asset value could result our benchmark IPD Index.
We expect our including future acquisitions, expenditure in the Group being unable to meet the asset-related covenants properties, which have a consistent record commitments and valuation movements.
contained in its Debenture and bank loan arrangements.
of greater stability in values, rising income We believe that, with our good income and rental values and limited obsolescence, interest cover, modest gearing and future will continue to out-perform the wider expenditure commitments and overall market over the long term.
Location of property assets security structure, existing and potential Our portfolio recorded a total return of The Groups property assets are concentrated in the centre of the new lenders will continue to view us to 18.5% for the year, below the total return West End of London.
The prosperity of the West End economy, and be a secure customer.
We are confident therefore of the Groups retail and restaurant occupiers, which of 22.6% recorded by our IPD benchmark, that we will be able to secure additional account for over 70% of our rental income, is heavily dependent on due to the lower yield profile of our long term finance when the need arises.
Inevitably, pricing of new arrangements Events which discourage visitors, such as threats to security or would reflect current conditions in debt We recorded a positive total shareholder public safety due to terrorism, health concerns such as an influenza markets.
return for the year ended 30 September pandemic, or disruption to the public transport network on which 2010 of 24.4% compared with the FTSE the area depends, could reduce visitor numbers.
Over time, if a fall Performance and benchmarking 350 Real Estate Index which recorded a in visitors was both sustained and significant, this could lead to a The table on page 1 summarises our return of 2.1% over the year.
reduction in occupier demand and the rental potential and value of performance this year against our chosen the Groups property assets.
Principal risks and uncertainties benchmarks.
facing the business As explained in previous years, we have All of the Groups properties are located within the jurisdictions of Operational and financial risks facing the been unable to identify a published Westminster City Council and the London Borough of Camden.
business are monitored through a process property performance index which relates Changes to their policies, particularly those relating to planning of regular assessment by the executive team specifically to a portfolio of mixed use and licensing, could have a significant impact on the Groups ability and reported and discussed at meetings of buildings such as ours, or recognises to maximise the long term potential of its assets.
the Audit Committee and the Board.
restaurant uses as a component, an important element of our investment Our principal risks have remained strategy.
We have therefore used for broadly unchanged over the year and comparison purposes the IPD UK relate to the valuation risk inherent in Monthly Indices which track movements Tenant risk property investment, and the location of across all main commercial property As a result of adverse conditions in the wider economy, a restriction the Groups portfolio and certain aspects categories throughout the UK on a of the availability of credit for consumers and businesses could lead of its strategy.
Shaftesbury is a constituent to lower levels of consumer spending, a higher level of business of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
failures and difficulties for new ventures in raising start-up capital.
This could adversely affect the financial viability of the Groups Taking into account acquisitions and tenants, potentially leading to higher levels of vacancies and capital expenditure during the year, our declines in rental values.
portfolio grew in value by 14.2% over the year, which matched the increase in our benchmark IPD.
Speculative development The Group carries out refurbishments and developments on a speculative basis.
There is a risk that letting expectations, both in terms of timing and rental income, may not be met due to an adverse change in economic conditions while the schemes are being carried out.
34 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 business review Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:05 Page 35 Key performance indicators The Board is satisfied that the Groups performance relating to the achievement Mitigation The key financial objective of the Group of rental levels is meeting its expectations.
is to deliver to shareholders sustained Retail, restaurant and residential rents out-performance in the long term growth The Group has chosen to invest in property assets in a particular have continued to meet or exceed valuers of its net asset value.
Fundamental to location and with uses which have historically demonstrated a estimates.
Demand for offices has improved this objective is the capital value growth much lower degree of valuation volatility than the wider market.
over the year and rents achieved have delivered by the Groups property assets.
As part of its regular internal reporting, the Group reviews generally met valuers expectations and The Groups financial key performance quarterly forecasts of compliance with value-related banking in some instances incentives granted to indicators measure its portfolio covenants and the extent to which values could fall before any tenants, usually in the form of rent-free performance, both in terms of capital value covenant was reached.
periods, have been less than anticipated.
and total returns, against the publiclyA commentary on the Groups financial position, including matters available IPD UK Monthly Index which, relating to its bank financing arrangements, is contained in this The amount of vacant space across the as explained above, tracks movements Business Review under the heading Finance on pages 33 to 34. portfolio, already very low, has reduced across all main commercial property over the year.
The Group has generally categories throughout the UK on a been successful in retaining office monthly basis.
The Groups performance tenants where leases expire or tenants against this Index is set out on page 1. have the option to exercise lease breaks.
Where space has become vacant, void The rental prospects of the Groups periods have generally remained at In our experience, the wide diversity of visitors to the West End means portfolio are the key driver of its long acceptable levels.
The improvement in that overall visitor numbers and spending are less influenced by UK term performance.
The key non-financial demand for offices has been reflected in economic conditions than in other domestic retail and leisure locations.
performance indicators related to rental shorter void periods.
The Group continues Such events, which are faced by all high profile locations such as income growth used within the business to experience delays in schemes due to London, are often beyond the Groups control, and are an inherent measure are: problems beyond its control, such as risk in the Groups  investment strategy.
delays in the planning process or the the extent to which rental levels are However, the Group has an active policy of working with many failure of utility companies to meet their achieved in excess of the market local bodies and statutory authorities to maximise the safety and service obligations.
rental values assessed by the Groups comfort of visitors to the West End and its Villages.
external valuers at their last valuation: The Group has in place insurance which would meet the cost of Prospects and physical destruction of its property assets resulting from a terrorist Some negative sentiment is to be expected event, and would also reimburse the Group for up to three years the ability of management to maximise in the New Year as the increase in taxes loss of income.
the occupation of its properties and, and substantial cost cutting by Local The Group works closely with both local authorities to ensure that where vacancies arise, minimise the Authorities and Central Government begin its properties are operated in a manner which complies with the time that properties are vacant and to take effect.
Whilst the West End cannot authorities local policies and statutes.
In the case of be completely immune from these national The Group makes representations to the authorities regarding properties being refurbished, the void factors, we do not expect to see any proposed policy changes so that its views and practical period monitored includes time spent in material deterioration in the buoyant experiences are considered in framing public policy.
designing schemes, obtaining planning local economy.
consents, carrying out physical works We intend to pursue further acquisitions and marketing up to the point of completing lettings.
For vacant properties which match our very focussed strategy and, after a very quiet period in 2008 and which are ready to let, marketing periods The Group has some 800 commercial tenants, so that the risks are monitored and assessed.
2009 in our investment market, activity associated with the default of individual tenants are well spread.
The is returning to more normal levels.
50 largest tenants by current passing rent in the wholly owned portfolio provide approximately 33% of current income.
No single tenant Our success in securing lettings in the St currently pays a rent in excess of 1.2 million per annum and the Martins Courtyard scheme will result in average rent paid by our ten largest tenants is 0.6 million per annum.
a rapid increase in rental income in the The Group reviews the creditworthiness of prospective new Longmartin Joint Venture in the current commercial tenants.
Where appropriate new tenants are required financial year.
to provide a cash deposit as security against default on their rent commitment.
At 30 September 2010, such deposits amounted to We are confident that with strong demand 9.1 million 2009: 8.9 million.
for all uses within our chosen areas continuing for the foreseeable future, and innovative management of our portfolio, we shall continue to deliver sustained long term out performance in Individual schemes carried out by the Group are small in relation to income and capital values.
the overall portfolio and are usually of relatively short duration.
Therefore the risk of material loss is less.
In the case of the St Martins Courtyard scheme in the Longmartin Joint Venture, which represents some 7% of the Groups portfolio, Jonathan S. Lane Chief Executive risk has been mitigated by securing substantial pre-lettings of its Brian Bickell Finance Director commercial space.
30 November 2010 35 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 business review Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:05 Page 36 Diesel Neal Street Seven Dials 36 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:07 Page 37 37 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:07 Page 38 38 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:08 Page 39 Joe and the Juice Broadwick Street Carnaby 39 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010
