SECTION 2 Business Review Operating business and financial review Our store network To maximise the cross-channel approach we will continue to expand the geographic store networks with stores consistent in size to the current portfolio.
These will continue to offer product ranges that meet customer needs with the websites increasingly used to offer extended ranges.
We intend to open around 25 stores per year, broadly half of which will be in the Developing businesses.
On an ongoing basis, refurbishment concepts and space allocations will be tested to improve sales densities and profitability.
Our services The Groups differentiated service offer will continue to be developed, particularly around subscription-based services for the newer technologies including Darty Box.
The Developing businesses are building their service offers taking best practices from within the Group.
Thierry Falque-Pierrotin, Chief Executive Leveraging the Group We have identified a number of additional opportunities to leverage the scale and expertise of the Group sourcing and back office functions to the benefit of all our businesses.
I am pleased with the progress we have made this year in setting As a result of these actions, over the next few years the Group expects up strong foundations for the future as well as showing delivery to grow the retail profit margin of Darty France and profitability at against our strategic targets.
Overall we remained ahead of our Comet, and eliminate the losses in the Developing businesses by markets, significantly improved our profitability, successfully grew 2011 12.
All this combined will significantly improve Group profitability.
our web sales and substantially improved the results of Darty Box and the Developing businesses.
Darty France In France trading conditions stabilised during the year and Darty slightly Strategic outlook outperformed a flat market with market share gains in white goods In December 2009 the Group set out its strategic outlook and and multimedia.
Total revenue grew by 2.7 per cent in local currency growthopportunities: compared to the same period last year, and by 0.2 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Focused on European electrical retailing, the Group has developed a clear service-led business model supported by a portfolio of over Gross margin was stable throughout the year and retail profit increased 700 stores ranging in size between 800 and 2,000 square metres.
by 9.6 per cent to 133.3 million resulting in an improvement in retail The geographic coverage represents a good balance between profit margin to 4.8 per cent.
Excluding Darty Box, Dartys retail profit market-leading positions and developing businesses.
margin was flat at 5.2 per cent and we now expect it to improve retail profitability.
Free cash flow was 181 million.
All this together with the Groups strong financial structure provides the foundations for future growth based on expanding cross-channel web Following further development of our online proposition the Darty sales, developing our current store network and further differentiating website delivered excellent growth increasing by 42.7 per cent to our service offer.
8.1per cent of total product sales.
The internet During the period Darty opened two new stores and relocated three.
Web penetration of electrical product sales is forecast to grow The successful kitchen offer was rolled out to a further nine stores, significantly over the next few years.
The Group is focused on a bringing the total to 21.
Over the next year, two new stores are cross-channel approach that will leverage its existing assets: brand planned with 10 relocations refurbishments and the kitchen offer awareness, store networks and the service infrastructure and it is will be introduced to at least a further six stores.
working to enhance the web specific elements of this strategy.
This will drive incremental profitable web sales with the initial aim of achieving Following successful Back to School and peak trading campaigns, the same level of market share as we have in our retail stores.
65,000 subscribers were added during the year bringing the total to 275,000.
Overall for the period, very high-speed cable subscriptions outweighed those for ADSL.
With losses more than halved to 7.4million we now anticipate Darty Box breaking even this year.
6 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
