Business review Strategy in more interest in the benefits of collagen.
2010 was the third year in 06 Devros aim is to become an increasingly This trend is expected to continue.
succession that Devro has successful and profitable supplier of collagen casings and associated products Volumes in emerging markets also increased operating profits to the global food industry.
continued the strong growth of previous years.
A 15% increase in Latin American while investing more in Our strategic objectives are: volumes follows some significant conversions capital expenditure and from gut to collagen in Mexico, and further to increase revenue in established sales growth in diverse markets ranging from reducing debt.
Of particular markets by displacing the use of gut Colombia to Venezuela.
through the introduction of new note was the better products, and by continuing to develop East European sales increased 9% on management of sales mix the technical support we give to our prior year, partly as a result of the customers: recovery from 2009s downturn and and further improvements partly as more product became available to increase revenue in emerging from our Czech plant.
A 47% volume in manufacturing efficiency markets by extending our sales and increase in Russia reflected an increase in across the group.
distribution network to have more Devros share of the market, gaining direct contact with leading food volume from a local manufacturer, and manufacturers: and significant interest in Select and the advantages it gives over gut.
to reduce unit costs by maximising the volume of output from our fixed assets The South-East Asian markets, particularly and actively managing the primary costs South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, the of raw materials, labour and utilities.
Philippines and Indonesia, all saw volume growth, 61% higher than 2009.
This was Sales due to gut conversions, competitive Sales volumes in established markets advantages and increasing production continued to grow with an increased focus across the region.
In the US, edible collagen volumes increased 19% In summary, volumes in markets excluding as a result of several customer-focused China increased 11% as the group initiatives.
These included the development continued to grow in higher margin of a carmine-free casing to meet new markets.
In 2010 that growth in higher labelling regulations which came into margin sales resulted in the group effect in January 2011, modification of tendering for, and supplying, lower volumes beefstick casings to gain business with in China.
Whilst it has benefited 2010s a growing brand, and ongoing support for profits, the recent reduction in sales in a major customer as they reorganised China does not reflect the significant manufacturing of a high volume product.
amount of business development work in 2010 which is progressing our strategic Volumes in the UK increased marginally.
objective of growing volumes significantly At the start of the year there was a in the longer term.
marked increase in total retail volumes of sausage in the UK, although this We closely monitor our success in tailed off in the second half, particularly converting gut users to collagen.
Having when compared to prior year.
Devro recorded and analysed each new sales revenues increased ahead of conversion achieved in 2010, we estimate volumes as a result of continuing efforts that the volume gained is equivalent to 2% to bring more value to customers, of Devros total volumes on an annualised ranging from collaboration on new product basis.
This is in line with recent trends and development projects, to intensive it demonstrates success in continuing to support given to customers as they expand the overall market for collagen.
Sales values also improved as we achieved In Japan, volumes increased over 6% as price rises and moved sales from lower to existing customers continued to increase higher value products and markets.
This their use of collagen casing.
Japanese added 7.4 million to operating profit manufacturers have very specific during 2010.
We are acutely aware of the requirements and a gradual decline in the pressures faced by our customers, so we availability of high quality gut has resulted are constantly seeking ways to provide Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 07 Penetrating markets worldwide Revenue m Employees Europe 131.8 1,484 Americas 48.6 386 Asia Pacific 56.6 275 Total 237.0 2,145 Scotland, UK Germany Czech Republic Russia 1 Moodiesburn 2 Bellshill 3 Hamburg 4 Jilemnice 5 Slavkov 6 Moscow Head office Sales Manufacturing Sales Technical development 1 employee Manufacturing 29 employees Sales Technical development 948 employees Sales 506 employees 1 2 6 3 4 5 9 7 8 10 11 South Carolina, US China Japan New South Wales, Australia New Zealand 7 Sandy Run 8 Hong Kong 9 Tokyo 10 Bathurst 11 Auckland Manufacturing Sales Sales Manufacturing Sales Technical development 5 employees 6 employees Technical development 6 employees Sales Sales 386 employees 258 employees Global Sales Territories Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review continued high-quality gut.
Handlink is a casing capacity by 8% in both 2012 and 2013, them with both technical support and 08 manufactured in our Australian plant improving efficiency, reducing unit costs, product enhancements.
using only local hides, and is aimed at and limiting the consumption of fossil the significant retail butchers sector, fuels.
We plan to invest in additional Distributed products are predominantly cellulose and fibrous casings sold on which still has a strong consumer capacity and to enhance manufacturing behalf of other casing manufacturers in a following in Australia.
These small number of markets.
We are not investments will not require additional seeking to grow this lower margin 2011 Outlook shareholder funds.
business and, as some contracts have We expect to see sales volumes increase reached conclusion dates, we have not further as the capacity from recent sought to renew them.
investments comes on stream and new products displace gut.
We will continue to Adverse weather in UK, US and Australia seek margin improvements as the benefits in December had a measurable impact on of manufacturing efficiencies come our customers and hence, temporarily, on through, and we are planning significant our own sales.
new investments to provide capacity for further growth in 2012 and 2013.
Peter Page Chief Executive Officer Operations 2010 saw further progress in manufacturing, The market for fresh sausages in China has with improved yields, faster line speeds and expanded with extraordinary speed in the newly-installed lines combining to give a 7% past three years.
Devro has good increase in saleable output.
This increased connections with some of the major players output was used to rebuild inventories from in this key market and several activities are very low levels at the end of 2009, providing in hand to establish a much stronger some extra stock to cover for planned presence for the future.
In early 2011, the shutdowns in 2011, and to increase sales process of establishing a Wholly-Owned volumes by 2% in 2010.
Foreign Enterprise in Beijing will be completed, allowing the company to Additional capacity installed in the Czech conduct direct commercial transactions Republic and Australia during the past year there.
A senior director is relocating to gave approximately 3% more volume during Hong Kong, in order to lead the growth of 2010, and will add 6% in a full year.
Along our business in China and South East Asia.
with line upgrades in Scotland, these In view of the significant potential in China, investments contribute to reduced unit costs Devro is pursuing several complementary and lower carbon emissions per unit sold.
Consistency in hide raw material supply is In Continental Europe, a fragmented critical to the business, and 2010 was better organisation, the legacy of previous than 2009 in terms of quality and processing.
acquisitions and disposals, is being Prices have been less volatile and were brought together as one operating broadly in line with 2009.
We continue to business and legal entity, Devro s. r. o.
With identify new raw material sources.
the recent recruitment of a commercial director and the commitment of some of In 2010, two new products were brought our most experienced senior managers to to market.
Select is a thinner-walled the region, the focus will be on increasing collagen casing aimed at the processed the effectiveness of direct communication wiener sector, which is the biggest with large key accounts, and improving segment by volume in the global the quality of representation and support sausage market.
Select has been under by local distributors.
development since 2007, and it was introduced in May 2010 at the triennial With the additional capacity investments IFFA Industry Trade Show in Frankfurt.
completed in 2010, and following the Whilst it is expected that it will take up to introduction of Select casings, Devro three years to establish significant expects to continue the recent trend of volumes of this innovative product, the growth in 2011.
All indications suggest that reaction from customers has been very demand will increase in emerging markets encouraging as they see the benefits of and significant opportunities for gut lower manufacturing costs.
Repeated conversion exist in established markets.
trials by a professional taste panel in Germany provide substantial evidence Capital investment of 45 million is that consumers rate it as comparable to planned for 2011, which will increase Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
