06 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review Above: In the late 1920s G Hogben & Sons on the Isle of Sheppey moved into a new era with a gleaming motorised hearse.
Serving local communities Above right: Dignity invested approximately 4 million in 2010 in new vehicles.
for generations 53 week year, the 53rd week produces non-comparable Introduction market share data.
Taking the more comparable trailing The Groups operations are managed across three main 52 weeks, market share was essentially flat at 11.5 per areas: funeral services, crematoria and pre-arranged funeral cent 2009: 11.6 per cent.
plans, which respectively represented 72 per cent, 19 per cent and 9 per cent of the Groups revenues in 2010.
In addition, whilst funerals divided by estimated deaths Funeral services revenues relate to the provision of funerals is a reasonable measure of our market share, the Group and ancillary items, such as memorials and floral tributes.
does not have a complete national presence.
Consequently, Crematoria revenues arise from cremation services and the this calculation can only ever be an estimate.
sale of memorials and burial plots at the Groups crematoria and cemeteries.
Pre-arranged funeral plan income represents Delivering client service excellence: the Dignity client survey amounts to cover the costs of marketing and administering the sale of these plans.
To ensure we maintain the highest levels of client service excellence, all Dignity funeral locations send a written client survey to the Office for National Statistics data families we serve.
In the last five years, we have received over 150,000 responses and from the responses in the last year we Some of the Groups key performance indicators rely on know that, having received the final invoice: the total number of estimated deaths for each period.
This information is obtained from the Office for National 99.2 per cent of respondents said that we met or exceeded their expectations: Statistics ONS.
98.1 per cent of respondents would recommend us: The initial publication of recorded total estimated deaths 99.9 per cent thought our staff were respectful: in Britain for the 53 weeks in 2010 was 557,000 compared 99.8 per cent thought our premises were clean and tidy: to 545,000 for the 52 weeks in 2009.
Historically, the ONS 99.8 per cent thought our vehicles were clean and comfortable: has updated these estimates from time to time.
As in previous years, the Group does not restate any of its key 99.7 per cent thought our staff listened to their needs and wishes: performance indicators when these figures are restated 99.2 per cent of clients agreed that our staff had fully explained in the following year.
what would happen before and during the funeral: 99.2 per cent agreed that our staff were compassionate Funeral services and caring: 98.9 per cent said that the funeral service took place on Overview time: and The Group operates a network of 567 2009: 546 funeral 98.9 per cent said that the final invoice matched the locations throughout the United Kingdom, trading under estimate provided.
During the period, the Group conducted 64,500 funerals 2009: 65,000.
Approximately Developments 1 per cent of these funerals were conducted in Northern 2010 has been a good year for funeral operations.
Excluding Northern Ireland, these funerals represent Underlying operating profits were 49.3 million 2009: approximately 11.4 per cent 2009: 11.8 per cent of total 47.3 million, an increase of 4 per cent.
The difference estimated deaths in Britain.
However, because 2010 was a We are continuing to improve our skills and knowledge through training initiatives Dignitys Training Department provides a variety of role specific courses to ensure that staff continue to fulfil their potential and meet the needs of our clients.
These courses are continually assessed via feedback from delegates and line managers to guarantee that they are relevant and add value to the contribution made by each employee.
Left: Annie Pamplin, Training Manager, at Dignitys dedicated training facility in the West Midlands.
07 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Dedicated people, committed to client service excellence Providing advice, care and support to the families we serve At Dignity we are dedicated to achieving excellence in all we do and we strive to set the highest standards for the funeral profession in terms of client service and care for the deceased.
Our funeral directors and arrangers come from the cities and towns they serve or families that have been in the funeral profession for generations.
This means they understand local traditions and can help our clients every step of the way.
By choosing a Dignity business families can be assured that client service, premises and vehicles will all be of the highest standard.
Below: David Harrison, Area Manager for North Tyneside and County Durham and great grandson of William Samuel Harrison, at the branch of W S Harrison & Son in Newcastle-upon-Tyne with Funeral Manager, Christine Hardy and Funeral Director, Alex Thornhill.
Right: W S Harrison & Son, Whitley Bay.
08 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review continued 99.2 per cent of respondents to the client survey said that we met or exceeded their expectations.
Above: The construction of St. Faiths Crematorium in Norwich in the early 1930s.
Above right: An artists impression of the new Wyre Forest Crematorium in Worcestershire.
between statutory amounts and underlying amounts is Such locations are anticipated to be loss making in their represented by profit on sale of fixed assets and transaction first full year of operation and be profitable in their third costs totalling 0.2 million 2009: 1.1 million.
This performance continues to reflect organic revenue Three locations 2009: six locations were closed in the growth.
Continued strong cost control has ensured that this period.
This reflects the disposal of some valuable freehold has translated into operating profit growth.
locations for cash that can be reinvested in the business and also some smaller locations at the end of their leases.
The Groups funeral services division has benefited from continued investment in the year, with approximately 7.7 Crematoria million being invested in the period on the refurbishment of our properties and the ongoing renewal of 129 of our fleet Overview of hearses, limousines and other vehicles.
The Group is the largest single operator of crematoria in Britain, operating 33 2009: 30 crematoria.
The Group Funeral location portfolio performed 45,200 cremations 2009: 42,700 in the period, The Groups funeral location portfolio has increased by representing 8.1 per cent 2009: 7.8 per cent of deaths 21 in the year, reflecting acquisitions, disposals and the in Britain.
opening of new satellite funeral locations.
Developments Net acquisition investment of 5.8 million increased the Operating profits were 19.9 million 2009: 17.6 million, portfolio by six funeral locations in the United Kingdom.
This reflects a strong performance Each of these acquisitions met the Groups criteria of being from the 22 crematoria owned by the Group for many years, larger than average, long-established businesses that fit well together with the full year effect of recent acquisitions.
within the Groups existing network.
The Group has spent 2.1 million 2009: 1.7 million The Group continues to seek businesses that meet the during the year as part of its obligations to comply with Groups stringent acquisition criteria and has acquired three the mercury abatement legislation, which is effective from funeral locations since the end of 2010, representing an the end of 2012.
As a result of the investment so far, five investment of 6.4 million.
Two of these funeral locations crematoria now have the required equipment installed and are in Northern Ireland.
Legislation requires any crematorium constructed after October 2006 to have mercury abatement equipment.
18 new satellite funeral locations 2009: one were opened Consequently an additional four crematoria within the in the year.
The locations are situated close enough to Groups portfolio already comply with the legislation.
We existing business centres to use their specialist vehicles and expect to be fully compliant before the 31 December 2012 mortuary equipment, but far enough away that they service deadline, by installing equipment at nine other locations.
In this way, these funeral locations will provide the same outstanding level of client service that people 1.3 million 2009: 1.7 million has also been spent on experience from other Dignity funeral locations without new cremators and other improvements to the crematoria the need for significant capital investment.
These new cremators have been installed earlier We are providing families with greater choice At Dignity we take great care to create a peaceful and tranquil environment at all of our crematoria and Gardens of Remembrance so that visitors can remember their loved ones in a place of serenity and beauty.
We provide a range of memorial options in a variety of materials, colours and styles to ensure that our clients are provided with a focal point for their grief that gives them comfort for many years.
Our aim is to offer families a quality memorial that enables them to remember the life they shared with their loved one and is as individual as the person it commemorates.
Left: Geraldine Marchant, Crematorium Manager at Loughborough Crematorium.
09 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Meeting the different needs of the communities we serve Investing responsibly for the future As an industry leader we are constantly searching for ways to improve our client service and the impact we have on the communities we serve.
During 2010, Dignity opened a new crematorium in Cambridgeshire and began construction of two new state of the art sites in Somerset and Worcestershire.
These new crematoria will provide greater convenience for bereaved families by offering reduced journey times and superior facilities.
In 2010, Dignity have also acquired two new crematoria at Weston-super-Mare and Telford in Shropshire.
Below: Chris Black, Manager of Fenland Crematorium with Rachael Barber, Area Manager for Norwich and North Anglia.
Right: The Gardens of Remembrance at Loughborough Crematorium in Leicestershire.
10 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review continued than necessary, as it was more efficient to replace them now From time to time, the Group receives monies from the given the works being performed on installing mercury Trusts, in line with the relevant Trusts deed, which have abatement equipment.
been assessed by the trustees as not required to ensure the Trust has sufficient assets to meet its future liabilities During the period, the Group has completed the construction in respect of current members Recoveries.
Recoveries of a crematorium in Cambridgeshire, acquired an established were 1.5 million in each period.
crematorium in Shropshire and started operating Westonsuper-Mare crematorium on behalf of the local authority.
The Group has continued to work hard at developing its portfolio of affinity partners and has formed a number of Since the year end, the Group has completed construction new partnerships in the period with organisations in the of a crematorium in Somerset which is due to open by the retail and financial services arena.
end of March 2011 and work continues to build a new crematorium in Worcestershire in partnership with the Central overheads local authority.
Overview These developments represent an investment of 13.9 Head office costs relate to central services that are not million in the year and will require capital investment of specifically attributed to a particular operating division.
These include the provision of IT, finance, personnel and Directors emoluments.
In addition and consistent with The Group continues to identify further locations suitable previous periods, the Group records the costs of incentive for a new crematorium and is also continuing to seek bonus arrangements, such as Long Term Incentive Plans partnerships with local authorities.
LTIPs and annual performance bonuses, which are provided to over 50 managers working across the business.
Pre-arranged funeral plans Developments Overview Costs in the period were 12.5 million 2009: 12.0 The Group continues to have a strong market presence in million, an increase of 4 per cent.
This year on year this area.
These plans represent future incremental business increase principally reflects the additional cost of bonuses for the funeral division, as the Group expects to perform the paid to the operational managers of the business, together majority of these funerals.
with some additional pension costs.
Developments The Group also relocated its head office to refurbished The division has performed strongly in the period.
Focused premises within Sutton Coldfield, investing 0.9 million.
marketing activity with its partners has resulted in the The new head office also accommodates the Groups number of unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans increasing customer service centre, which was previously in a separate to 238,000 2009: 216,000 with profits in the division building within the town.
increasing to 2.8 million excluding Recoveries 2009: 2.0 million excluding Recoveries.
We are enhancing customer experience and responsiveness We provide our advisors with extensive training and coaching so that they can help our clients at one of the most difficult times of their lives in a caring and compassionate manner.
Our advisors are encouraged to share their knowledge, experiences and best practice to help maintain and improve the service they all provide as individuals.
In October 2010, Dignitys Client Service Centre out-performed national competition and many household names to finish third for customer service in the UKs biggest ever call centre benchmarking exercise.
Left: Lindsey Paris, Amandeep Singh and Tara Wood at Dignitys Client Service Centre in Sutton Coldfield.
11 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Key highlights: Developing new products, building valuable partnerships Helping people plan for the future Top 3 Our Dignity Pre-Arranged Funeral Plans division has built up a unique understanding of Dignitys Client Service Centre achieved third our clients needs and created one of the most financially secure funeral plans in the UK.
place for customer service in the biggest ever This division continues to grow and exceed sales targets through the development of new survey into UK call centres.
products, the instigation of national marketing campaigns and by increasing the number of affinity partners in our portfolio.
238 000 There were 238,000 unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans at the end of the period.
This reflects strong sales through the Groups funeral locations and affinity partners.
Below: Justin Lewis, Dignitys Market Development Manager with Sharon Dobson, Funeral Plan Manager, of Age UK Enterprises.
