Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 14 BUSINESS REVIEW In improving economies, we achieved sales for the year to 31 October 2010 of 300 million, a growth of 17 per cent, a record for the Group and our 32nd year of consecutive growth since incorporation.
BUSINESS REVIEW This Business Review has been prepared solely for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they D320i to provide additional information to continue to adopt the going concern basis in The new i-Tech scan head is smaller and adjustable, allowing the D-Series lasers to be installed in the most shareholders.
It contains statements that are preparing the annual report and accounts.
A new IP65 version adds greater forward looking.
These statements are made by protection for harsh environment installations.
Flexible the Directors in good faith based on the BACKGROUND TO PERFORMANCE connectivity and a familiar interface now make it possible information available to them up to the time of IN 2010 to control D-Series lasers from anywhere.
Such statements should In mid 2008 we witnessed the first signs of be treated with caution due to the inherent slowdown in the markets for our products uncertainties and risks associated with forward signalling what became the global economic looking information.
The Board responded quickly and decisively to the changing conditions by GOING CONCERN reducing the cost base of our business, The Groups business activities together with commencing with the announcement in the factors likely to affect its future October 2008 of a reduction in our workforce development, performance and position are by approximately 10 per cent.
described within this Business Review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, The reduction of over 200 jobs was carefully liquidity position and borrowing facilities are targeted so as to retain, insofar as possible, our described below.
full capacity in those regions of the world where we expected to see a faster return to The Group has considerable financial resources growth, for example China, or where we together with a broad spread of customers thought the impact of recession would be less across different geographic areas and industries.
severe, for example India and the Middle East.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that This approach assisted our overall performance the Group is well placed to manage its business in 2009, and did so again in 2010. risks successfully.
The Directors have also considered the Groups forecasts and We were careful not to reduce the resource projections.
After making enquiries, the levels in front line customer service anywhere Directors have a reasonable expectation that in our business, thereby protecting one of our the Company and the Group have adequate major competitive advantages and brand resources to continue in operational existence strengths.
Throughout the difficulties of the Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements recession, our customers continued to receive and we added additional resources in these the service excellence and attention upon territories as our confidence in the recovery which our reputation has been built.
We also reinstated selling resources in some American and European businesses in Our approach to cost reduction was to anticipation of increased activity once our new accelerate the integration of specific product ranges are launched.
Despite varying acquisitions and to combine production recovery rates, all geographic regions of our operations, reducing indirect manufacturing business grew over the corresponding period overheads, associated engineering support and last year and most, but not all, are now ahead administration.
This programme, which was of where they were in 2008 before the completed in 2010, achieved targeted cost recession started.
reductions without impacting our customers.
In 2010, as volumes grew, it has benefited our Following a period of low capital investment by gross margin rates which reached nearly 50 per many of our customers during 2009, increased cent for the year and our net operating return capital expenditure programmes were the basis which was in excess of 18 per cent.
for strong printer volume growth in our business in 2010.
Overall printer revenues grew Further to this restructuring we maintained by 24 per cent.
tight cost controls during 2009, only investing in specific programmes that were focused on Printer revenues in our three newer helping the Group emerge from the recession technologies Print and Apply Labelling as a stronger, more competitive and more Machinery PALM, Thermal Transfer efficient business.
Overprinting TTO and Thermal Ink Jet TIJ all grew by over 35 per cent.
This reflects As a result, and despite significant volume growing market adoption of these technologies reductions in our printer business in the year to combined with an expansion of the sales 31 October 2009, the strength of our customer network as we launch products in a greater service and after market business meant we number of territories.
Our laser business grew were able to report our 31st consecutive year strongly once again, by over 20 per cent, as did of sales growth and a record level of underlying our core Continuous Ink Jet CIJ business profits.
Throughout that year our focus for where all three brands Citronix, Domino and investment was our core product ranges with a Wiedenbach had a successful year.
plan to launch a new range at the end of 2010.
Our aim was to ensure that, post market As markets emerged from recession, increases recovery, the Group had strong momentum in production output levels of customers drove and impetus for continuing growth.
improved utilisation of our coding products.
This produced an overall 18 per cent increase TRADING DURING 2010 in consumption of our fluids and consumables, which now extends to filters for fume We have seen a recovery in the markets for extraction equipment and ribbons and our products in most geographic regions during printheads for TTO and PALM printers.
Conditions started to improve late in and service revenues grew by 7 per cent.
2009 and have remained at a consistently improved level throughout 2010.
The degree of OPERATIONS recovery has varied, with markets in Asia, the Middle East and South America growing Our manufacturing operations benefited in strongly: Europe and North America, with 2010 from the restructuring and consolidation some exceptions, have lagged behind and even undertaken in the prior year.
Cost efficiencies now we remain cautious about prospects next coupled with volume increases have enabled us year in some of these countries.
to report an increase in gross margin rate to just below 50 per cent.
This was achieved In improving economies, we achieved sales for against a backdrop of increasing lead time in the year to 31 October 2010 of 300 million, a supply chains as global demand increased at a growth of 17 per cent, a record for the Group faster rate than component manufacturing and our 32nd year of consecutive growth since capacity, and increased costs, in particular incorporation.
Restocking in our distribution freight charges, as actions were taken to network provided some assistance early in the expedite parts supply to our factories.
Whilst year, we estimate the impact was up to 5 component availability was an issue in particular million of sales, but the bulk of the growth through the second quarter of the year, we reflected improving market conditions.
were able to utilise buffer stocks to avoid any significant impact on supply to our customers.
The strongest growth in 2010 came from those At year end the situation was largely back to territories where we maintained our prenormal, inventories have been replenished and recession headcount levels.
China, India, South lead times from our suppliers have returned East Asia, the Middle East and South America to normal.
all generated above average growth in the year Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 16 BUSINESS REVIEW The Group uses a range of chemicals in the Sales revenues of 300 million were 17 per As a staple of the British kitchen since 1847, OXO, manufacture of our fluids products.
In addition cent ahead of last year 256.1 million.
which is produced at Premier in Worksop, requires reliable and fast coding and marking technology.
to extended lead times on certain of these, we Underlying growth in the core business was When Premier came to replace their old lasers, they have experienced increasing levels of product 16 per cent and acquisitions made in the prior contacted Domino thanks to an impressive experience withdrawal by chemical manufacturers as they year contributed 1 per cent.
Currency with its A-Series continuous ink jet printer that is seek to rationalise their product ranges as translation effects had no material impact on installed on their canning line.
reduced global demand and the increasing reported results.
Weve had a very positive experience with Dominos burden of regulation and compliance reduces A-Series, explains Russell Inman, engineering manager commercial viability.
Our policy is to hold raw Printer revenues increased by 24 per cent at Worksop.
When the time came to replace our material inventories of key components to and total after market revenues including previous laser, Domino was top of the list.
mitigate supply disruption: as a result we have consumables, spares and services grew by Domino offered us a Domino D-Series plus laser, been able to manage the situation while 13 per cent.
Revenues increased across all which codes a best before date and date code onto the reformulating affected products.
Customers geographies reflecting the improved global packaging, and performs excellently in a 24 7, three-shift have not been impacted.
The strongest growth was working environment.
Domino does exactly what they say they will and their products work in the same way in Middle East, Asia and South America.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT pricing environment has remained relatively stable in all markets although there has been a The biggest increase in investment in the year small downward movement in average selling was in Research and Development R&D prices across the business reflecting the costs, which grew by 36 per cent.
This growth broader mix of products and technologies we reflects investment in additional hardware now sell.
engineers and technicians, investment in chemists to strengthen our fluids business and The rate of gross margin of 49.7 per cent substantial costs incurred during the year on represents an increase of 3.3 percentage points materials, prototypes and equipment used in on last year before exceptional items.
This the development of our new product range.
step up in margin rate reflects the effect of We expect that this increased level of R&D improved sales volumes coupled with the full costs will be maintained during 2011 as we benefit of the reduction in the cost base of the build out our new platform yet further.
Group following the restructuring actions undertaken during 2009.
The first output from this increase in investment has been a new range of primary Increasing global demand for electronic package coding and marking printers, CIJ, Laser, components during 2010 has placed pressure TTO and TIJ, on a harmonised platform which on our input prices, but the impact of these starts to bring simplification to our operations has been largely negated by cost reductions as well as delivering substantial benefits in in other areas.
Our Group Sourcing performance to our customers.
team continues to pursue product cost reduction opportunities.
The product range was launched in France at the Emballage Show on 22 November 2010, We have invested substantially during the year and over the next four to five months will be in selling capacity, increasing overall Selling and made available to our global customer base.
A Distribution costs by 13 per cent, and in new series of further updates will then be launched product development, increasing R&D costs by at the large European show, Interpack, in 36 per cent both before exceptional items.
Group headcount has been increased by approximately 5 per cent.
In excess of 50 heads The new platform will be developed further in have been added to the sales, service and the coming years and will become the standard marketing teams and we continue to actively adopted by all Group companies giving rise recruit direct selling resources in particular in over time to greater standardisation and the faster growing Asian markets.
We expect this to be in R&D spend includes an additional 16 heads a positive factor in future rates of gross and and is a direct result of acceleration in our new operating margins.
New ranges of CIJ, TTO and Laser printers were launched FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN 2010 in November 2010 marking the beginning of a In financial terms, the Group has once again period of renewal of the full product range delivered record results in 2010.
Sales have utilising common platform technology.
increased by 17 per cent, operating profit margin before exceptional items has Operating profit before the amortisation of improved by over four percentage points and acquired intangible assets was 54.5 million underlying earnings per share see note 14 compared to 35.7 million in the prior year have increased by 52 per cent to 36.05 pence.
Improvement in Cash generation has been strong and a gross margins coupled with increased combination of working capital control and operational efficiencies has enabled conversion strong operating results has pushed return on of sales growth into significantly improved capital to more than 30 per cent.
Operating return on sales before Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 17 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements exceptional items has increased by 4.2 product business to Dominos existing laser percentage points to 18.2 per cent.
operation in Hamburg, left a small solid state source manufacturing business in Photon INTEREST Energy.
This business was principally supplying customers outside the coding and marking The Group has remained in a positive net cash area.
After a review of strategic options the position throughout the year.
Prevailing interest decision was taken to dispose of the remaining rates have remained at low levels and as a business and assets.
This transaction was consequence interest income was 0.4 million concluded on 19 November 2010.
Short term euro debt consideration was 230,000.
Acquired utilised in the acquisition of German businesses intangible assets directly attributable to the in 2008 has been retained.
Total interest paid business sold totalled 0.1 million.
These were in the year was 0.3 million 2009: 0.6 assessed as fully impaired as at 31 October million.
Notional interest on deferred 2010 and a charge of 0.1 million has been consideration associated with past acquisitions made against income in 2010. was 0.4 million 2009: 0.8 million.
CASH TAXATION V120i Net cash inflow from operating activities before The tax charge of 14.9 million reflects an Compared to traditional contact coders, digital thermal taxation was 59.7 million, 14 per cent ahead of transfer coding offers superior print quality, profitability effective tax rate of 28.6 per cent.
The Group and lower running costs.
The revolutionary new i-Tech operating profit.
Inventories were increased by has benefited in 2010 from the utilisation of ribbon drive is capable of using up to 60% less ribbon 19.8 per cent, in part in response to the need to previously unrecognised prior year tax losses in than its predecessor.
buffer material input supply chains during a its US business, made available as a result of period of increased global demand for particular improvement in US profitability.
This has components, and in part as a result of the improved the reported tax rate by introduction of new products.
The overall mix of profits levels increased in response to sales revenues includes significant income streams in but overall debtor turnover performance jurisdictions where the effective rate remains improved.
Debtor days at year end were 57, an above the UK marginal rate.
The mix of profits improvement of four days compared to the in any particular year can therefore have a prior year.
The Group has a diverse and material effect on the effective tax rate.
widespread customer base and no one customer represents a material bad debt risk.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share were 34.25 pence.
Capital expenditure of 5.7 million reflects Underlying earnings per share see note 14 regular replacement of fixed assets plus were 36.05 pence, an increase of 52 per cent increased investment in new product tooling, IT 2009: 23.68 pence.
Fully diluted earnings per systems and increased space to expand share were 33.88 pence 2009: 17.76 pence.
The Board has approved a total of 6.3 million in respect of these activities, DIVIDENDS approximately 4.8 million of which is expected The Board is recommending a final dividend of to fall into 2011.
10.14 pence which together with the interim dividend of 5.48 pence makes a total of 15.62 A total of 2.8 million contingent deferred pence for the year as a whole, an increase of consideration was paid during the year to the 20 per cent on prior year 2009: 13.02 pence.
former shareholders of APS, Citronix, Dividend cover is 2.2 times.
During the year Easyprint, Control and On-line Coding under two dividend payments were made which the terms of earn out arrangements.
A totalled 15.2 million, equivalent to 43 per cent payment of 5.7 million was made to the of cash generated before distributions to former shareholders of Marque TDI, reflecting shareholders.
The increase in dividend the initial consideration that was deferred by recommended by the Board this year is the one year at the time of acquisition in 2009.
25th consecutive year of dividend growth since flotation of the business on the London Gross cash at 31 October 2010 was 59.2 Stock Exchange.
Short term debt was 9.7 million, a reduction of 0.3 million in the year.
The POST BALANCE SHEET EVENT remaining short term debt principally In mid November 2010, post the balance sheet comprises loans denominated in euros that date, we announced the sale of certain business were used to finance the acquisition of German and assets associated with Photon Energy subsidiaries through the Groups German GmbH based in Ottensoos, Germany.
The debt is subject to a back Photon Group comprising Photon Energy and to back arrangement with the UK parent NWL was purchased in 2008 for a total providing a natural hedge against short term consideration including debt of 6.9 million.
currency movements and is being paid down as Reorganisation of the Photon Group, including cash is released from the German businesses.
transfer of substantially all the solid state laser Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 18 BUSINESS REVIEW The Group has net cash balances at year end of is taken to hedge the effect of this translation.
Checkpoint purchased three Domino K200 piezo ink jet 49.5 million, an increase of 20.4 million in the In 2010 the movement in exchange rates printers to enhance its all-in-one solutions that enable year.
Cash is being retained to provide flexibility between sterling and currencies significant to their clients to track and trace their complete logistics chain from production to end user.
The K200 is capable to respond to opportunities to invest in and the Group had only a modest impact on of providing fast and accurate 300 dpi print at 90 metres acquire new products or capability.
Profit before tax translated at prevailing per minute thanks to its drop on demand technology.
believes that changes in credit markets support rates was 0.5 million better than it would have retention of increased internal cash resources.
been had currency rates remained constant.
It was crucial to find a supplier that can offer us a complete solution for high-speed digital coding in a variety of formats onto various substrates, explains TREASURY No action is taken to hedge the impact of Udo Falter, Project Manager at Checkpoint.
Domino movements in currency on the value of The business is exposed to changes in interest proved very responsive, organising a trial installation of investments denominated in foreign currency.
The trial provided all the proof we needed of rates and to movements in exchange rates the K200s flexibility and the advantages of variable data The value of any gain or loss is taken directly to between currencies.
Treasury policy in respect printing capabilities.
In 2010 this resulted in an increase in of these and other aspects of financing is the value of reserves of 1.6 million.
approved by the Board and adherence to policy is monitored regularly.
KPIs Cash is placed on short term deposit with Performance indicators are maintained covering approved banks, all of whom are required to all aspects of the Groups operations.
These meet specific credit rating requirements.
There are used by management on a day to day basis.
are limits placed on the total amount deposited The Board receives monthly reports on with any individual institution.
Working capital performance and reviews progress against and general overdraft facilities are maintained plans.
Management considers both underlying sufficient to meet expected needs.
The Groups and IFRS measures when reviewing Key principal facilities are committed until 2011 and Performance Indicators.
drawdown is priced relative to LIBOR.
At top level the Board monitors five Key The Group has revenues and costs in a range Performance Indicators: of currencies and is exposed to movements in exchange rates.
This exposure is managed at Growth in sales revenues the transaction level through forward Gross margin rate gross profit before contracts.
Expected net cash inflows in US exceptional costs compared to total dollar and euro are sold forward on a rolling 12 sales revenues month basis, and expected inflows in Canadian Operating return on sales ratio of dollar and outflows in Swedish kronor and operating profit before amortisation of Swiss franc are sold purchased forward on a acquired intangible assets and exceptional rolling three month basis.
These contracts costs as a percentage of sales revenue provide certainty and fix a significant Operating cash flow as a percentage of percentage of the transaction based exposure.
operating profit net cash inflow from Certain currencies such as the Chinese yuan operating activities before tax compared to and Indian rupee are significant to the Group operating profit before exceptional items but are subject to local fiscal controls and Return on capital employed operating cannot be traded.
In these cases cash profit before exceptional costs as a remittance to the UK is subject to local percentage of average total assets less conversion at spot rates.
current liabilities before deferred and contingent consideration on acquisitions.
During 2010 the average rates at which forward contracts matured had the effect of Our goal is to maintain a balance between sales increasing net sterling receipts by 2.8 million growth and profit improvement, to convert at when compared to rates prevailing during least 100 per cent of operating profit into 2009.
Contracts in place for the year to operating cash and maintain a return on capital October 2011 will realise losses of 0.4 million employed in excess of 20 per cent.
when compared to rates applicable in 2010.
Comparative performance in this and the past Reported results are subject to translation four years is as follows: from local currency at average rates.
No action 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Sales growth 17% 1% 9% 11% 9% Gross margin rate 49.7% 46.4% 47.6% 48.1% 49.2% Operating return on sales 18.2% 14% 13.8% 13.9% 14.5% Operating cash flow operating profit 114% 135% 115% 112% 120% Return on capital employed 30.6% 21.3% 22.6% 23% 24.6% Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 19 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Innovation IPEX DEBUT FOR N600 INK JET LABEL PRESS Domino has entered the full-colour, full-width printing market following the introduction at IPEX 2010 of its N600 reel-to-reel piezo ink jet label press.
"The N600 runs at speeds that deliver at least 50% higher productivity than any comparable printer on the market 75 metres minute with three greyscales or 50 metres minute with four, combined with a 333mm 13"" print width."
Nominal print resolution is 1,200dpi native 600dpi and the printer is compatible with a wide range of paper and plastic label stock, thanks in part to the use of durable UV inks.
The market reaction to the N600 at IPEX was everything we could have wished for and more, enthuses Philip Easton, Director Digital Printing Solutions at Domino.
With such a wide choice of digital label presses on the market, weve been adamant that the N600 should offer clear differentiators in terms of quality and productivity.
Weve consulted with the market every step of the way and the feedback from potential customers and, indeed, from their customers, at IPEX indicates that there is huge demand for a label press of the calibre of the N600 that is as yet unfulfilled.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 20 BUSINESS REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT have an active programme of developing When Bishops Printers, one of the largest commercial products to replace those which use We operate an established risk management printers in the South of England were looking for a materials that are or are likely to be variable data print solution to meet the requirements policy which is reviewed and approved by the of Englands top premiership football clubs, Dominos withdrawn or restricted.
Risks and uncertainties are assessed and world-leading A-Series continuous ink jet printer Failure of a supplier or disruption to the evaluated across the business and risk registers provided the perfect answer.
Says Nick Murphy, supply chain for critical components identifying exposures, mitigation and actions to Operations Director at Bishops Printers, We needed impacting the Groups ability to deliver a late-stage print solution to add to our finishing line-up improve controls are maintained in all that could manage and print unique numbers on 25,000 products in an acceptable lead time: We operating units.
Executive management finished match programmes.
have an active supplier management and monitors risk and takes a leading role in quality assurance programme.
Mitigation of managing the principal risks faced by the The large internal ink reservoirs and unique automatic disruption in supply is either via dual self-cleaning properties of the print heads in the A-Series business.
A risk management committee allows for greater production output with minimal sourcing or where appropriate or necessary comprising senior executives from all functional downtime, and ensures continuous and consistent print use of strategic buffer stock.
areas monitors the risk management process quality throughout the run.
Installation was very Loss of manufacturing facilities impairing the and reviews mitigation with functional and straightforward and their compact design meant that Groups ability to communicate with and they required little additional space on our finishing process owners.
The Groups internal audit lines, adds Nick Murphy.
They have run smoothly supply customers: Formal disaster recovery process includes a formal risk assessment of the without any problems since they were installed.
plans are maintained by all manufacturing operating unit under review.
Our policy is to operate dual fluids plants each with the capability to scale up to The key risks to which the business is exposed meet global demand if necessary.
Group IT are reviewed by the full executive team each policy defines data back up and systems month.
These along with mitigation actions recovery requirements.
Compliance audits are summarised: are conducted at least annually.
Loss of after market business to third party Failure to maintain a competitive product suppliers: Mitigation includes close range: We have an established product monitoring of customer buying patterns and creation process which encourages the investigation of changes in use: development input of new ideas and provides a of comprehensive service packages aimed at framework for managing the product increasing customers equipment utilisation: development road map.
We also have development of new products with an active programme of competitor enhanced capabilities offering customers product review.
increased value at lower total cost.
Failure to anticipate impact of technological Volatility in exchange rates: Group treasury changes: The Group has a small team policy requires use of forward contracts to dedicated to researching the application of provide certainty of short term cash flow.
new technologies for coding, marking and No action is taken to mitigate the effect of digital printing, and investigating alternative profit translation.
application of existing technologies and products in our end user markets.
OUTLOOK Failure to successfully deliver product developments to the market on time or 2010 was another successful year for the early life failure of new designs: Mitigation is Group.
Whilst economic concerns do remain in via operation of a formal gated process Europe, our strength in the fastest growing controlling product specification, design, regions of the world, China, India, South development and pre-launch validation America and Eastern Europe, gives us of products and through operation of confidence as we enter 2011. risk assessments, peer reviews and process metrics.
The results of 2010 were assisted by recovery Product failure resulting in customer in global markets after the difficulties of 2009. downtime and damage to the value of the However, we have not relied on recovery Domino brand: Comprehensive quality alone.
We have deployed our resources during control processes are operated in the recession to ensure we emerged as a stronger, manufacture of our products.
quality of products is measured and feedback reviewed regularly.
Helpdesk and The combination of an exciting range of new field monitoring systems have been products and additional investment in selling developed to enable correlation of reported and marketing, together with a strong balance incidents and monitoring of actions.
sheet, gives us confidence in the future.
Increasing legislation surrounding use and transportation of certain chemicals and substances affecting materials or business processes: Mitigation depends upon good information about impending changes or new legislation.
The Group has a dedicated regulatory affairs team who collaborate with Governmental and industry bodies.
