COM BUSINESS REVIEW NATURE OF THE BUSINESS Electrocomponents is the worlds largest high service distributor of electronics and maintenance products.
The Group operates in 27 countries and sells to most of the remaining countries of the world via third party distributors.
The Group satisfies the small quantity product needs of its customers who are typically electronics or maintenance engineers in business.
A large number of high quality goods are stocked, which are dispatched the same day that the order is received.
The average customer order value is around 100 although the range of order values is wide.
The Group has a large number of customers from a wide range of industry sectors with diverse product demands.
This means that the Group manages tens of thousands of orders for customers across the world each working day.
STRATEGY We continue to implement our strategy and have identified five areas to drive the Groups future performance.
A more detailed explanation of the strategy and the progress that we have made on each of these areas is provided in the Chief Executives Review.
STRENGTHS AND RESOURCES Brands The Group has a number of major brands.
The most significant Simon Boddie of these is RS which is used all over the world, except in North Group Finance Director America, where the Allied brand is used.
Free cash flow of 72m Geographic footprint Our operating companies provide our high service offer across represented 137% of profit countries representing around 80% of the worlds GDP.
The Groups distributors serve Eastern Europe, Russia, Southern Europe, the after tax Middle East and South America representing a further 10% of the worlds GDP.
Customer relationships We supply around 1.5m customers from a wide range of industrial sectors.
We have relationships with both the end users who use our products and also with the companies for whom they work.
Our customers are typically electronics and maintenance engineers.
Supplier relationships The relationships with our suppliers are an increasingly important factor in allowing us both to maintain high standards of product availability for our customers and to anticipate future customer needs.
We purchase some 500,000 products from around 2,500 major OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 15 suppliers throughout the world with a groupwide focus on global OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND KEY purchasing agreements.
Our offer to electronics and maintenance PERFORMANCE INDICATORS engineers is valuable to many of our suppliers, who would otherwise find the small order and immediate dispatch requirements of such Operating performance customers difficult and costly to satisfy.
2010 2009 eCommerce Revenue 972.6m 974.6m eCommerce, representing around 43% of sales in the year, Gross margin 48.1% 49.5% provides the Group with the ability to reach a broad customer base Headline Contribution 190.7m 200.2m and critically to reach our target electronics customers who are conducting a greater proportion of their product research online.
Group Process costs 111.5 m 106.6 m The channel also allows us to extend and promote our online offer Headline operating profit 79.2m 93.6m rapidly.
Online merchandising is being used to highlight to customers Interest net 4.8 m 7.0 m relevant products and information during their online journey providing Headline profit before tax 74.4m 86.6m improved customer experience and revenue opportunities.
We are increasingly focusing on the provision of online customer services Free cash flow 71.9m 78.0m giving our customers the flexibility they want to manage their Headline earnings per share 11.8p 13.6p business relationships with us online.
Dividend per share 11.0p 11.0p Employees The skills and support from our employees is extremely important Key performance indicators to the Group.
During the year we employed around 5,600 employees 2010 2009 worldwide.
The geographic spread of our employees is: 1,800 in the 1 Group sales growth 5.0 % 5.3 % UK, 1,300 in Continental Europe, 700 in North America, 900 in Asia 1 International 4.7 % 4.5 % Pacific and 900 in the Groupwide Processes.
1 UK 5.6 % 6.7 % Infrastructure e-Commerce revenue share 43% 36% The Group recognises that the provision of a high service level is 2 extremely important to our customers.
Three areas of our Headline Group return on sales 8.1% 9.6% infrastructure are particularly important: 3 Headline ROCE 16.7% 18.5% Systems: All our businesses in Continental Europe together Stock turn per year 2.8x 2.7x with our UK business operate on a single integrated 4 Revenue per head 000 175 170 regional platform.
Operating on these robust and Number of customers millions 1.5 1.5 integrated platforms enables us to improve efficiency, Net debt to headline EBITDA 1.6x 1.7x share best practice and reduce our risk profile.
Our 5 Interest cover 19.6x 15.4x Asia Pacific and North America businesses operate from separate systems.
1 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for currency and trading days 2 Headline operating profit expressed as a percentage of revenue Facilities: The Group has a well developed warehouse network 3 Headline operating profit expressed as a percentage of net assets plus net debt 4 across all our markets to support our customer needs.
Revenue on a like for like basis 2010 and 2009 adjusting for trading days and foreign exchange 5 Based upon headline EBITA: Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation inc. government grants The operations and coordination at our warehouses is managed by our cross group Supply Chain process to ensure an efficient and cost effective use of our assets.
eCommerce: The Group operates from a single website platform supporting the RS businesses in the UK, Continental Europe and Asia Pacific.
This gives us the ability to roll out new developments across these regions, maximising the benefits to our customers.
Allied, the Groups North American business, uses a separate web platform.
COM BUSINESS REVIEW continued BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Revenue Free cash flow Revenue Group revenue was 972.6m, which was marginally lower year on 973m 72m year on a reported basis with the Groups revenue benefitting from 2009: 975m 2009: 78m Sterlings depreciation in the year, most notably against the Euro and the Dollar 7% at average rates.
On an underlying basis, revenue declined by 5% year on year.
The Groups sales performance improved throughout the year as the Groups strategic initiatives were implemented and the global economy showed signs of recovery.
The underlying sales decline of 15% in the first half was Reported profit before tax was 20.5m below last year due to the followed by 6% growth in the second half with all regions returning 12.2m reduction in headline profit before tax and the 8.3m to growth in December.
During the final quarter of the year, and reduction in one off net income.
Whilst 2010 reported a net one off compared to the weak final quarter of the previous financial year, income of 1.6m this was 8.3m lower than in 2009 which benefitted the Groups underlying revenue grew by 15%, with the International from the changes to the UK defined benefit pension scheme.
business growing by 19% and the UK business by 9%.
Within the Earnings per share International business Europe grew by 12%, North America by 28% Headline earnings per share of 11.8p were around 13% below last and Asia Pacific by 26%.
year with the 14% reduction in headline profit before tax being Gross margin partially offset by the reduction in the Groups effective headline tax Group gross margin at 48.1% declined by around 1.4% points year on rate of 1% point to 31%.
The majority of this decline was in the UK and was due to action Dividend taken to improve the price competitiveness of the electronics offer, The interim dividend of 5p per share was paid in January 2010 and foreign exchange, robust large customer performance and the growth the Board is proposing to recommend the payment of the final of profitable lower margin new revenue streams.
These include larger dividend of 6p per share to be paid on 23 July 2010.
As a result, the orders and electronics production packaging.
dividends for the financial year will be maintained at the same level as Costs the prior year at 11p per share.
Headline operating costs, at constant currency, were around 5% Cash flow lower than the previous year.
This was due to the financial benefits The Groups free cash flow for the year was 71.9m representing of the Groups cost reduction programme that was implemented 137% of profit after tax.
This was after the payment of reorganisation towards the end of the previous financial year as the severity of the costs associated with the Group cost reduction programme of around economic downturn became apparent and the effect of lower year 5m and the payment of 2.9m to close the German defined benefit on year sales.
The Group has reduced its average employees year pension scheme.
This strong cash performance was delivered on year by around 500 heads which represents 8% of the total through continued tight control over working capital, improving stock headcount.
The accelerated implementation of these actions has turn, debtor days reduced by around four days and capital expenditure meant that the full cost savings target of 18m has been realised being 11m below the level of depreciation and amortisation.
Financial position Although sales declined year on year, revenue per head increased The Group has robust financial metrics with interest cover of 20 times by 3% to 175,000 reflecting the effects of the Groups cost and a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.6 times, with significant reduction programme.
headroom to the Groups banking covenants.
Profit before tax At 31 March 2010 net debt was 172.1m, which was 31.1m lower Headline profit before tax was 74.4m, a reduction of 12.2m than last year, due to free cash flow of 71.9m exceeding dividend 14.1% year on year.
The decline was principally due to a lower payments of 47.9m, with the balance largely being due to foreign contribution from the UK business 12.9m together with higher exchange effects.
At 31 March 2010 the Group had committed debt Process costs 4.9m partially offset by an increase in contribution facilities and loans of 305m and therefore headroom over net debt from the International business 3.4m and lower interest of 133m.
Year end net debt comprised gross borrowings of 177.6m currency Reported profit before tax was 76.0m which benefitted from a one split: 72m US Dollars, 44m Sterling, 44m Euros, 9m Japanese off net income of 1.6m in the second half of the year.
This one off Yen and the balance in other currencies and financial assets of net income, excluded from headline profit, comprised an accounting 5.5m.
The currency mix is designed to help hedge the Groups benefit of 1.9m due to the closure of the German defined benefit translation exposures.
The peak month end net borrowing during pension scheme to new members and future accrual, and the the year using monthly exchange rates was 194m.
removal of the vast majority of the liabilities for active members through a cash settlement.
This was offset by some other The Group has a syndicated multicurrency facility from ten banks for reorganisation costs in Continental Europe and Asia Pacific US$137m, 142m and 47m maturing in September 2012.
also has other bilateral facilities of Yen800m, maturing December OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 17 2010, and an amortising bilateral of currently 1.8m, maturing Continental Europe December 2011.
Growth Growth constant In addition, during the course of the year the Group successfully 2010 2009 reported exchange issued $150m of Private Placement notes, split $65m maturing 1 June 2015 and $85m maturing June 2017.
Cross currency Contribution 78.3m 75.9m 3.2% 3.7 % interest rate swaps have been put in place to swap $60m from fixed Contribution % Dollar to floating Sterling and $40m from fixed Dollar to floating Euro.
of revenue 22.4% 21.9% 1 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for currency and trading days INTERNATIONAL Our business is the largest high service distributor in Continental Growth Europe.
It comprises eight operations, with France, Germany and Italy Growth constant being the largest, and the smaller operations being Austria, Benelux, 2010 2009 reported exchange Ireland, Scandinavia and Spain.
The European businesses are 1 Revenue 654.9m 635.3m 3.1% 4.7 % supported by seven distribution centres, local language websites, Gross margin 47.7% 48.2% a salesforce of 400 people and common transaction systems.
Operating costs 201.8 m 199.2 m 1.3 % 6.2% On a reported basis, including the benefit of the weakening of Sterling, Contribution 110.5m 107.1m 3.2% 4.3 % revenue increased by 0.9% and contribution by 3.2%.
Underlying revenue declined by around 5.4% moving from an underlying decline Contribution % in the first half of the year of 16% to growth of 5% in the second half, of revenue 16.9% 16.9% exiting in the fourth quarter with 12% sales growth.
1 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for currency and trading days The recent regionalisation of our Continental Europe business The International business is made up of three regions: Continental has been particularly effective in delivering sales and marketing Europe 54% of the International business, North America 29% programmes across the countries.
The regions marketing teams and Asia Pacific 17%.
All these businesses have significant growth have created a number of highly effective and consistent customer campaigns to a mass customer audience across all the countries potential and through the last decade the International business has whilst at the same time improving efficiency.
We have engaged grown significantly from around 40% of the Groups revenue in 2000 further with our suppliers with, for example, an innovative joint to around 67% in the current financial year.
campaign with Fluke introducing a new product offering to the During the year, on a reported basis including the benefit of the market.
In addition further up skilling of the large customer account weakening of Sterling, revenue increased by 3.1% and contribution teams across the region has helped win five new large customer by 3.2%.
Underlying revenue declined by 4.7% with Continental accounts on a pan European basis.
Europe declining by 5.4%, North America by 5.3% and Asia Pacific The region is driving towards increasing its eCommerce offer with the by 1.6%.
Sales performance improved through the year: in the first introduction of new web functionality such as the quote redemption half underlying sales declined by 17% while in the second half the tool and additional my account functionality complemented by the rapid International business grew by 8% exiting the fourth quarter with sharing of best practice across the countries.
As a result eCommerce sales growth of 19%.
revenue grew by 14% with eCommerce revenue share increasing to Gross margin was stable across the year: however, year on year 49% from 41% last year and exiting the year at 53% share.
the International gross margin declined by around 0.5% points.
The North America majority of this decline was in Asia Pacific.
In this region gross margin was impacted by action taken to improve the competitiveness of the Growth offer in Japan.
The pricing of our semiconductor range was repositioned Growth constant and large customer account business has been targeted.
As a result 2010 2009 reported exchange 1 these segments have performed particularly strongly which has Revenue 191.5m 186.6m 2.6% 5.3 % contributed to the second half underlying sales growth in Japan Contribution 24.9m 24.3m 2.5% 4.6 % of around 20%.
Contribution % The effects of the Groups cost reduction programme, implemented of revenue 13.0% 13.0% towards the end of the previous year, have led to operating costs 1 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for currency and trading days at constant currency reducing by around 6% with costs reducing in all regions.
As a result, the International business has delivered cost leverage, with costs as a percentage of sales reducing by 0.5% points year on year.
The International contribution margin at 16.9% is the same as the previous year.
COM BUSINESS REVIEW continued five languages delivering high service to our 200,000 customers.
eCommerce Revenue The business has an unparalleled infrastructure in the region revenue growth in Asia Pacific supported by its newly implemented regional structure.
in North America On a reported basis, including the benefits of the weakening of Sterling, revenue increased by 11.2% and contribution by 5.8%.
Underlying revenue declined by 1.6% moving from a decline of 15% 77% 113m in the first half to growth of 14% in the second half, exiting in the fourth quarter with sales growth of 26%.
2009: 44% 2009: 102m Costs were controlled across the region with the actions to reduce headcount in the previous year having a significant, beneficial effect.
During the year the business pursued the significant opportunities in the region through a number of consistent and focused initiatives.
On a reported basis, including the benefit of the weakening of In China this included the introduction of a programme aimed at the Sterling, revenue increased by 2.6% and contribution by 2.5%.
countrys large engineering undergraduate population, the acquisition Underlying revenue declined by 5.3% during the year moving from of customers in higher growth industrial regions and the targeted a decline of 19% in the first half of the year to growth of 12% in development of customers in Government investment areas such as the second half, exiting in the fourth quarter at 28% growth.
oil, gas, wind power and railways.
In Japan we have repositioned the The businesss strong recovery was helped by the continued semiconductor offer and focused our sales and marketing on larger implementation of its successful strategy.
This involved a strong customers which has supported the businesss 20% sales growth sales and marketing focus supported by the local activities of the in the second half of the year.
businesss unequalled 54 sales offices across the region, strong Strategic supplier relationships are being further developed across supplier relationships and growing eCommerce offer.
the region, including a regional supplier meeting and joint marketing The business significantly expanded its local product offer, exploiting initiatives with strategic suppliers including Agilent and Fluke.
in particular its strong relationships with strategic suppliers such as Customer service is a key focus area and we have recently been Tyco Electronics and Vishay.
In November 2009 the business hosted awarded customer service awards in Malaysia and Australia.
its Expo convention welcoming 100 key suppliers and creating stronger relationships between suppliers and our salesforce.
eCommerce revenue grew by 4% with eCommerce revenue share increasing to 35% from 33% last year.
Larger customer accounts have performed strongly as the service offer and sales and marketing focus on this area has led to a number UK of key account wins.
Growth Marketing during the year has been particularly innovative with the Growth constant release of the businesss first television commercial in September 2010 2009 reported exchange which together with social media marketing on Facebook, Twitter 1 Revenue 317.7m 339.3m 6.4 % 5.6 % and YouTube contributed to significant new customer acquisition.
Gross margin 49.0% 51.8% eCommerce revenue grew by 77% with eCommerce revenue share Operating costs 75.6 m 82.6 m 8.5% 8.5% increasing to 28% from 15% last year and exiting the year at 32% share.
Contribution 80.2m 93.1m 13.9 % 13.9 % This strong performance was driven by improvements to the online quotation process, investing in increased search engine marketing and Contribution % incentivising local sales offices to support the use of this channel.
of revenue 25.2% 27.4% 1 Asia Pacific Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for trading days Growth UK revenue declined by 5.6%, moving from a decline of 13% in the Growth constant first half of the year to growth in the second half of 2% exiting in the 2010 2009 reported exchange final quarter with growth of 9%.
1 Revenue 113.4m 102.0m 11.2% 1.6 % Throughout the year the business has pursued a clear strategy of Contribution 7.3m 6.9m 5.8% 9.9 % improving its customer offers and developing new incremental revenue Contribution % streams whilst maintaining its UK high service leadership position.
of revenue 6.4% 6.8% The electronics offer has been further improved with 41,000 new 1 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for currency and trading days products, production packaging and competitive pricing.
Electronics has been the best performing product category.
Large customer In Asia Pacific, our regional business is the market leader with accounts have performed strongly through the year as more around 900 employees, 17 local sales offices and 13 websites in customer specific solutions have been deployed and the eCommerce OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 19 offer has been better exploited.
Improved pricing and discount Product Management, through the leveraging of our leading global effectiveness initiatives have also been introduced.
These have led to position, has further developed and exploited its relationships with the winning of 9 large customer accounts and the renewal of numerous key strategic suppliers.
This has led to a successful and innovative existing large customer accounts against strong competition.
joint campaign across the UK and Continental Europe with Fluke to promote a new product offering.
The successful flexible pricing offer is an example of a new profitable revenue opportunity which the business is pursuing.
This targets Process costs have increased by 1.3%, at constant foreign exchange, larger customer orders with a value of over 1,000 with a gross with the additional investment to drive the implementation of the margin of around 40%.
This business grew by 9% in the year.
A Groups strategy in electronics and eCommerce being partially offset significant opportunity still remains to expand this offer across a by the Groups cost reduction activities.
A number of online marketing campaigns have been deployed to TAXATION address customer needs, for example value for money promotions and the use of price check data.
eCommerce revenue grew by 7% The Groups effective tax rate was 31% of headline profit before tax, with eCommerce revenue share increasing to 49% from 43% last which was 1% point lower than the prior year.
The Groups current year and exiting at 52% share.
effective tax rate includes the effect of a significant and continuing increase in the deferred tax liability due to the tax amortisation of Gross margin was 49.0% for the year, a decline of 2.8% points on overseas goodwill.
This deferred tax liability is not expected to the previous year.
This was due to action taken to improve the price competitiveness of the electronics offer, foreign exchange, robust crystallise in the foreseeable future.
This combined with a one off tax large customer performance and the growth of profitable lower settlement and the impact of the phasing of tax payments resulted in margin new revenue streams.
These include larger orders and a headline cash tax rate of 30% for the year.
PENSIONS Operating costs have been reduced by 7.0m 8.5% due to the impact of the prior year cost reduction initiatives, the ongoing impact of the Continuous Improvement programme, benefits from the The Group has defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, Ireland and strengthening of the businesss non stock purchasing team and lower Germany.
All these schemes are closed to new entrants and in Germany sales volumes.
As a result, operating costs as a percentage of sales the pension scheme is also closed to accruals for future service.
During the year, the Group consulted with local employees and the workers council in Germany over proposed changes to the local PROCESSES defined benefit pension scheme.
These changes were agreed to, leading to the closure of the pension scheme to future accrual with Growth future pension provision through a defined contribution scheme.
In Growth constant addition around 85% of the schemes active members, accepted a 2010 2009 reported exchange cash payment to settle their past service obligations.
The accounting Process Costs 111.5 m 106.6 m 4.6 % 1.3 % effects of these actions were to book a total curtailment and settlement gain of around 4.8m offset by a charge of 2.9m Costs % of representing the payment to members to settle their past service revenue 11.5 % 10.9 % obligations.
The net accounting gain of 1.9m has been disclosed as net income excluded from headline profit reflecting the one off nature The Processes have implemented a number of initiatives to support of the transaction.
The Electronics division, created last year to accelerate our activities in this important area, has coordinated the The most recent accounting valuation of the UK defined benefit introduction and global marketing of around 41,000 new electronics scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2010.
This disclosed a deficit products across the Group and the launch of new web based services of 10.2m before tax relief.
The scheme was 97% funded on an for electronics design engineers.
The eCommerce team have further accounting basis.
The Group was not required to make any deficit developed the websites which has supported the 15% eCommerce recovery contributions to the pension scheme during the financial sales growth.
This deficit is 3.9m higher than at the previous year end Our Information Systems process has continued to manage the principally caused by the increasing value of liabilities due to changing ongoing development of our Groupwide transaction system and the discount rates and inflation assumptions partially offset by increased increasing investments in our eCommerce platform.
Supply Chain has continued to pursue its strategy of supporting the Under IAS 19, the combined gross deficit of the Groups defined Groups increased product offer, with around 49,000 new products benefit schemes was 16.2m at 31 March 2010. introduced during the year, whilst maintaining high customer service levels and realising cost reductions.
Key deliverables during the year included reduced transport costs and the successful redistribution of activity across the two UK warehouses.
COM BUSINESS REVIEW continued By emphasising the innovation in our eCommerce capabilities, Europe eCommerce UK costs continuing high service levels and stock availability, our customer revenue share reduced by communications are able to deliver consistent messaging to our customers on our value for money proposition.
Collectively, these actions aim to ensure we remain competitive in the current tough 53% 8.5% and unpredictable market conditions.
2009: 44% 2009: 7% Employee engagement exit Staff engagement is essential to the successful delivery of the business strategy, particularly following the cost reduction measures implemented in response to the economic downturn, and changes to the business structure and organisation.
RISKS Employee engagement is monitored through the annual employee survey.
Considerable effort has been devoted to communicating the business strategy so employees are clear on our business objectives The Group has well established risk management and internal control and their role in the strategy.
A Change Champion network exists processes for the identification, assessment and management of with employees drawn from all parts of the business whose central risks likely to affect the achievement of the Groups corporate and role is to ensure the strategy message is clearly and consistently strategic objectives.
communicated to their respective teams, and to provide feedback The Board and Group Executive Committee receive regular reports to senior management.
covering risks and mitigating actions arising from external factors, The employee appraisals process and the setting of personal key dependencies, project delivery and corporate responsibility areas.
objectives operates within the framework of our corporate objectives.
This section summarises the most significant risks to the The aim is for employees to understand the direction of the Group achievement of our objectives: so they are appropriately engaged and incentivised in their role in delivering the strategy.
Global economic conditions remain weak or worsen Our sales and profits were adversely impacted by the economic Dependence on business information systems downturn during 2009 and 2010.
The business responded quickly There is dependence on the core information systems infrastructure and decisively to the downturn through a controlled programme of to support the business operations.
A prolonged disruption to the cost control.
Reductions in operating costs were delivered through systems infrastructure, applications or data would severely impact headcount reductions, logistics restructuring and other cost customer service operations including sales, order taking and efficiencies realising annualised cost savings of around 18m.
Whilst the last six months have seen signs of a global recovery with The Group has developed considerable experience in operating its core systems in partnership with our business partners.
The systems an increase in sales being experienced across all our markets, the infrastructure is designed to provide considerable contingency against short to medium term economic outlook continues to be uncertain.
Upgrades to core systems and other applications are The business is however highly cash generative, with significant strictly controlled through tight project management processes and headroom to the Groups banking covenants.
The vast majority of include rigorous test processes prior to any release.
This ensures the Groups committed facilities available at 31 March 2010 have that the core systems and attendant applications remain stable and a maturity date of September 2012 or later.
Increasing competition in key markets All systems are subject to continuous testing of system protections During an economic downturn in global markets customers can place with well practised incident management procedures and fully even greater significance on pricing and value for money, which documented crisis management plan arrangements.
Ongoing competitors may respond to more aggressively by offering additional programmes are in place to continuously test and reassess our services and more competitive pricing.
This development could systems, to ensure they are effectively protected against external threaten our core markets and relative competitive position, resulting security risks.
in the loss of market share and margin.
Foreign exchange rate volatility To address this risk, we use robust market pricing frameworks across The geographic spread of the Group means that financial results can global markets to monitor competitor pricing and market developments, be significantly affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
and to assess our value for money relative to our competitors.
This The Group has major businesses in Continental Europe, North allows us to anticipate and respond quickly to competitor actions America and Asia Pacific.
through new pricing, discounting and service offers.
We have continued to change prices on a significant number of electronics A 10 cent weakening of the Euro and US Dollar currencies against products, and have expanded our own brand ranges to support our Sterling would create a translation exposure and reduce the Groups ability to compete on price in the current business environment.
operating profit before tax by about 6m and 1m respectively.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 21 The risk presented by currency fluctuations may materially affect and environmental information are key elements of our customer business planning and product procurement costs.
Actions in place to service and business model.
address and mitigate this risk include the placing of forward contracts We source products and services from suppliers that meet the against planned expenditure and increased purchasing of stock in Groups ethical standards.
In particular we will not source from Euros and US Dollars.
More detailed information is provided in Note organisations which use child labour or forced labour, which 20 to these accounts.
discriminate on the grounds of gender, ethnic or national origin, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, age or disability, or do CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY not recognise freedom of association or collective bargaining.
All suppliers are informed of our CR principles, with all direct Sound corporate responsibility CR policies and practices are suppliers in countries of concern undergoing periodic audit by regional integral to our business.
We believe that the progressive alignment of sourcing teams.
The assessment criteria are based on SA8000 Social our values and strategy with responsible and ethical business policies Accountability Standard and the Ethical Trade Initiative Base Code and practices helps enhance competitiveness and is a driver for guidelines.
In the last 12 months, our Global Sourcing team audited sustainable growth and success.
35% of our direct suppliers in countries of concern.
The Board takes regular account of CR matters in the business of the Employees Group, with the Group Chief Executive being the Director responsible We value the commitment of our employees, and maintain a working for CR, health and safety and environmental matters at the Board.
environment where employees are valued and respected, there is equality of opportunity and individual talent is recognised.
Our approach Our core values and principles are defined in our Group Policy is set out in further detail in the Directors Report.
Manual, which we apply to dealings with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Group Policy Manual is issued personally Communities to all managers, and is available to all employees via the Group We have a strong sense of community responsibility, and encourage intranet site.
Managers are required to confirm receipt and ensure our businesses around the world to enhance relationships with the that employees are briefed on the contents.
communities in which we operate.
We support employee participation in community initiatives, and company and staff contributions in kind The Group Policy Manual covers standards of professional conduct, as well as financial giving.
conflicts of interest, gifts and hospitality, fraud and bribery, competition law and bullying and harassment.
An independently operated Many of our businesses promote charitable giving to national and confidential speaking up facility is being put into place for all international organisations, with examples including support for the businesses allowing matters of concern to be reported in confidence.
Red Cross in the German and Austrian businesses.
The RS Club in the Asia-Pacific region supports employee participation in charitable We implement our CR policies through our management systems and events for non-profit organisations such as Orbis, whose objective is processes in alignment with the overall governance structure of the to eliminate avoidable blindness in developing countries.
We monitor the effectiveness of our CR policies through regular the RS Club raised funds for those affected by typhoons and flooding reporting of key performance indicators and other related information.
in Taiwan and the Philippines respectively.
Our North American Electrocomponents is a member of the FTSE4Good index and we business participates in the United Way movement, with Allied participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
The UK business is a employees participating in community volunteer programmes.
Standard Bearer for the Carbon Trust.
In 2010, Electrocomponents Support for education is an important theme for our UK business, was again identified by Corporate Knights, as one of their Global 100 with participation in the Young Enterprise programme where most sustainable corporations.
company volunteers provide mentoring support for young people Customers and suppliers in areas such as leadership and recruitment skills.
The UK business We supply 1.5 million customers worldwide with a range of is also a sponsor of the Centre for Engineering Excellence at the approximately half a million products drawn from some 2,500 suppliers.
University of the West of Scotland.
Our customer service ethic is a core element of our strategy Environment and business proposition, with customer satisfaction monitored The Group Environmental Policy Statement, which is set out in the through a range of customer service and value for money metrics.
Group Policy Manual, commits us to identifying and managing the To support continual improvement in our customer service, some environmental impacts associated with our activities.
The policy 40 sites around the world are certificated to ISO9001:2008 Quality and our implementation programmes support the Groups strategy.
Management System standard, representing over 96% of the Our objective is to promote greater efficiency and progressively Group by turnover.
reduce our environmental impacts per unit of turnover.
It is important that the products we supply are safe and comply Our most significant environmental impacts are carbon emissions with the laws of the countries in which they are sold.
Responsible due to the consumption of energy at our facilities, the use of paper selling and marketing, and the provision of the appropriate safety in our printed catalogues, the generation of waste, packaging consumption and water use.
COM BUSINESS REVIEW continued We use a set of key performance indicators KPIs to assess and Emissions KPIs Total emissions Tonnes CO 2 monitor the environmental performance of our sites and businesses.
Tonnes CO per m turnover 2 The KPIs index relevant environmental impacts to sales to reflect 2009 2008 2009 2008 performance allowing for business growth.
This enables us to CO2 due to premises benchmark individual Group businesses and helps identify 1 2 energy use 20,181 21,094 21.6 19.7 performance improvement opportunities.
1 CO2 equivalent from all energy sources, including country specific CO2 factors for electricity 2 We encourage our businesses to gain certification to ISO14001:2004 Excludes a number of smaller facilities where utilities are included in lease costs Environmental Management Standard where this supports our Group Paper business and environmental objectives.
Our French business gained We continue to work closely with our pulp and paper suppliers and the ISO14001 standard during 2009, which means that some 60% of printers to reduce the carbon footprint of the paper catalogue.
This turnover is employed in ISO14001 certificated businesses.
Further applies both in production and distribution and we work to minimise sites around the world are working towards certification in 2010. weight and to maximise efficiency.
As a result we have improved We report below on our environmental impacts for the calendar years distribution efficiencies, reduced costs and cut our carbon footprint.
We aim to continually improve the quality and coverage All the pulp for our paper catalogues are sourced from either the of our environmental reporting and have restated 2008 performance Sustainable Forestry Initiative or PEFC accredited forests, with all the where appropriate with all KPIs on a constant currency basis.
All of our printing carried out in ISO14001 certificated facilities.
Our catalogues facilities across the Group report their environmental performance.
in the European and Asian markets all carry the PEFC Chain of Custody accreditation marks.
The global economic slowdown during 2009 had a significant effect on our environmental KPIs as the reduced level of sales resulted in Our customer packaging is the subject of ongoing review which aims lower utilisation in a number of areas.
to identify opportunities to reduce the quantity of packaging whilst ensuring customer orders are protected against damage whilst in Emissions transit.
As a result of this, the weight of packaging per unit of sales Our premises and infrastructure are the primary source of our reduced by around 3% in the year.
carbon emissions, and present a relatively fixed element of our emissions footprint.
Waste We made progress in reducing our waste in absolute terms during In absolute terms CO2 emissions for the calendar year 2009 were the year.
Total waste reduced by 13% and tonnes waste per m down 4% compared with 2008.
However, with the reduced level turnover was unchanged year on year.
At 68%, the proportion of total of sales, CO2 emissions per m turnover deteriorated by 10%.
CO2 waste which was recycled remained high, although as a result of the emissions intensity per unit of floor area was reduced by 4%, due lowered demand in some markets for recycled materials, this was to continuing energy efficiency initiatives in the larger businesses, lower than the 69% achieved in 2008. including the UK, North America and France, and reduced working hours in some smaller facilities, for example the UK trade counters.
We emphasise the importance of waste reduction and recycling initiatives across the Group by spreading best practice, including for In future, our UK business will be covered by the Carbon Reduction example moving to electronic invoicing, inclusion of buyback clauses Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency scheme.
This scheme will in supplier contracts and reuse of transit packaging.
require us to monitor and report energy usage and the related emissions on an annual basis.
We will be required to purchase a Waste KPIs Total waste Tonnes waste number of carbon allowances to account for the emissions for which Tonnes per m turnover we are responsible.
2009 2008 2009 2008 Preparations for the implementation of the CRC scheme are well Total waste 2,401 2,766 2.6 2.6 advanced, with the UK business achieving the Carbon Trust Standard Waste reused following an independent audit confirming the year on year reduction recycled 1,624 1,915 1.7 1.8 of carbon emissions.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 23 Water behavioural safety methodologies in the business, safety training The Groups use of water is primarily for domestic and fire safety for managers and employees, and tight management and control purposes, such as catering, washroom purposes, and water of physical hazards such as the completion of the major fire safety sprinkler systems.
upgrade to the French warehouse.
Across the Group we continue to work to reduce water consumption We measure our health and safety performance by financial year.
In and during 2009 total water use reduced by 17%.
Water use per 2010, the Groups lost time accident ratio reduced by 18% to 0.98 lost employee increased by 4% impacted by the fixed nature of some time accidents per 200,000 hours worked, which was consistent with water consumption, such as the periodic testing of sprinklers.
a 24% reduction in the total number of reported lost time accidents.
There was an increase in our All Accident rate for 2010, although Water usage reduction initiatives included tighter control of irrigation, this represented an increase of less than 1% in the total number reductions in domestic water use and other initiatives at many sites of accidents reported over 2009.
The most common accident around the Group.
causes continue to be manual handling activities and slips, trips and falls, which are consistent with a distribution business and Water KPIs Water 3 our previous experience.
Total water consumption m 3 consumption m per employee For 2011, the Group has set itself a lost time accident target of 2009 2008 2009 2008 0.60 lost time accidents per 200,000 hours, to be achieved by Total water use 45,200 54,145 8.5 8.2 building on the initiatives launched during the previous year.
Health and safety KPIs 2010 2009 Health and safety All Accidents per 200,000 hours worked 7.33 6.61 We are committed to the Group achieving the highest standards of 1 health and safety.
We have set ourselves stretching improvement Lost time accidents per 200,000 hours worked 0.98 1.20 targets at the organisation and employee levels.
1 Lost time accidents are those where the employee is off work and fails to return for at least 24 hours An integral part of the move to a regional organisation over the past year has been to establish regional as well as Group level health and Verification safety forums.
These forums are chaired by members of our Group Electrocomponents evaluates its CR policies and performance as part Executive Committee with the aim of driving improvements in health of its risk management and internal audit processes.
Those locations and safety performance through the sharing of best practice and the accredited to ISO9001, ISO14001 and OSHAS18001 have regular setting of specific regional objectives.
The Group Executive Committee receives regular updates on health Our environmental reporting processes and data are reviewed by and safety initiatives from across the Group, which includes a review our Group Risk Manager working with external consultants to verify, of all lost time accidents.
Formal quarterly reporting of health and safety performance is provided to the Board, together with an annual where appropriate, our environmental key performance indicators.
health and safety performance review.
We consider that these procedures provide a reasonable level of Our Group wide health and safety management processes are based on assurance that our non-financial key performance indicators are free the application of risk management techniques and on the Occupational from material misstatement.
Whilst we have considered the potential Health and Safety Management Standard OHSAS18001:2007.
Our UK for further external verification of the Groups CR performance we business has held the OHSAS18001 standard since 2003, with our Italian have decided that currently we will limit this to external professional business gaining certification in 2009.
Further international businesses are advice on specific matters as required.
working towards certification in the next financial year.
During 2009 we concentrated on reinvigorating our health and safety management processes, with the senior management team providing high profile leadership.
This was supported by the introduction of
