Business Review - Definition of Key Performance Indicators INTERNATIONALLY TRADED COAL PRICES RETURN ON GROSS CAPITAL EMPLOYED As published by the McCloskey Group Limited, the coal industry This is a measure of performance relative to amounts invested.
It is recognised market analysis and trade reporting company.
These bi-weekly calculated by dividing underlying operating profit by gross capital prices reflect the delivered to port price of coal for the two major coal employed.
Gross capital employed is defined as the average of the importing markets.
opening and closing non-current assets excluding deferred tax, inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
SALES PER EMPLOYEE Total annual third party revenue at constant exchange rates divided by the average number of employees derived from a simple total head count with no distinction between full time, part time, temporary or casual employees.
Where employees are employed for part of a year, the average number is calculated on a pro-rata basis.
LOST TIME INCIDENTS The number of incidents connected with work which results in an injured person being away from work or unable to do the full range of their normal duties, not including the day of the incident.
LOST TIME INCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE The number of Lost Time Incidents per 200,000 hours worked.
UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER SHARE This is a measure of performance and growth.
It is calculated by dividing the underlying profit for the year by the weighted average number of shares in issue and ranking for dividend.
INTEREST COVER This measure provides an indication of whether the Groups profit is sufficient to cover its interest obligations.
It is calculated by dividing the underlying operating profit by net interest payable on bank overdrafts and loans, other loans and bank interest receivable.
NET DEBT TO EBITDA This is a measure of the Groups ability to service its debt obligations.
It is calculated by dividing net debt, defined as short and long-term borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, by the profit for the year after adding back net finance costs, taxation, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
Financial performance measures described as underlying within this statement are before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and exceptional items and, where applicable, notional interest.
