business review The port was successful in concluding negotiations with grOup LOCOG which took official occupation of a 500,000 sq.
ft. 2010 saw a considerable improvement in the underlying warehousing complex in January 2011. trading performance with the ports performing particularly well, once again showing the benefit of having a broad Nordic Forest Terminals NFT spread of cargoes and commodities supporting the NFT had a good year with revenue increasing by nearly 9% business.
The results were achieved with a 5% increase on a volume increase up 11% to 624,000 tonnes.
With the in revenue on a cost base which was little changed from benefit of operational gearing, the financial performance 2009, demonstrating the operational gearing benefits increased substantially.
NFT also provided Nordic of the business.
Recycling Limited NRL with stevedoring services to export the RDF volumes to Europe starting in the last The property division recorded a modest increase in quarter of 2010. profitability on a like-for-like basis after adjusting for the acquisition of Ocean Terminal in December 2009.
There Scottish Ports and Marine was a small but significant increase in the Market Value of Volume through the ports within Scotland amounted to the property development assets when compared against 11.6 million tonnes, an increase of 2% over 2009.
Hound the property market generally.
Point crude oil export volume reduced to 21.3 million tonnes from 23.6 million tonnes in 2009.
The Braefoot Bay Group revenue increased by 5% to reach 181.9m volume amounted to 2.2 million tonnes 2009 2.4 million compared with 173.9m in 2009.
This reduction was due to the closure of the by 2% to 157.4m 2009 154.8m.
Recycling revenue Goldeneye field which has not yet been offset by the amounted to 15.7m 2009 17.6m.
increase in tonnage from the new Norwegian fields now being linked in to the gas pipeline servicing St. Fergus The underlying port operating profit amounted to 43.0m 1 and Mossmorran.
DTZ carried out a valuation of the port investment properties at the end of 2010 which Grangemouth gave an increase in valuation through the Income Liquid bulks volume increased marginally to 5.9 million Statement of 16.8m compared with 10.5m in 2009. tonnes.
Within this, the LPG tonnages were up by 7% at 341,000 tonnes and the level of third party business was The recycling division recorded an underlying operating up by 30% at 1.1 million tonnes, more than offsetting a profit of 1.1m compared with 1.3m in 2009. reduction in the INEOS volume.
The property division produced an underlying operating The container division handled just under 129,500 boxes profit of 5.7m compared with 5.3m in 2009 on a like-forin 2010, down 7% on the previous year.
The revaluation of the property investment off on a more positive basis.
properties showed an increase of 3.6m over the valuation in 2009.
Leith The Port of Leith had its best year ever financially in 2010 Ports on a total throughput down 9% on 2009.
As expected, coal The total volume of traffic through the ports excluding the tonnages were 0.2 million tonnes lower but bulk cargoes Marine Terminals increased by 5% to 20.9 million tonnes.
were up by over 33% with particularly strong volumes in Volumes through Hound Point and Braefoot Bay amounted grain and salt.
The volume referred to does not include to 23.5 million tonnes compared with 26 million tonnes in 68,000 tonnes of steel pipe brought in by rail which will, in 2009.
As a result, the total throughput amounted to 44.4 due course, be exported over the quay in 2011.
The port million tonnes compared with 46 million tonnes in 2009, also benefited from a large increase in offshore oil a reduction of 3.5%.
maintenance work where, again, this is not reflected in the tonnage statistics.
Tilbury Tilbury produced another good financial performance.
Dundee Total volume through Tilbury increased by 8% to 8.7 million Volume increased to 1 million tonnes compared with tonnes in 2010.
Six out of the seven asset areas either 0.8 million tonnes in 2009.
This increase was attributable achieved significant volume increases or were in line with principally to fertiliser, urea and salt.
Dundee also won last year with only short sea containers recording a fall in additional business from the oil sector which contributed box numbers of 2%.
The bulks terminal volume increased excellent ancillary revenue to the port.
by 53%: the Finnish terminal volumes increased by 19%, Ro-Ro tonnages increased by 14% year on year and Gamesa, the Spanish wind turbine manufacturer, has Hyundai cars imported just over 41,000 vehicles.
The signalled its intention to sign an MoU to establish a logistics short sea container division moved 117,000 boxes in and manufacturing centre in Dundee.
During 2010, new container services commenced through MacAndrews and Delta Shipping with a Spanish and Russian service respectively.
A new break-bulk Far Eastern service was started by Westfal Larsen which saw excellent tonnages come through the port.
1 Restated for reallocation of net finance cost on pension liability Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 business review continued Rosyth and Fife Ports The property team progressed the planning application for The Harbour, an area of approximately 25 acres around The most significant change to affect Rosyth was the full year effect of the DFDS ferry service between Rosyth OTL.
The Planning Committee of CEC approved the application subject to various conditions to be satisfied and Zeebrugge which, in volume terms, accounted for 0.6 million tonnes of business through the Port of Rosyth by a Section 75 Agreement.
At the same time, we worked with CEC to put forward a TIF proposal to the Scottish in 2010 compared with 0.2 million tonnes for five months in 2009.
This was achieved with only one vessel on the Government for the public funding of infrastructure around The Harbour development.
In 2011, DFDS changed their schedules such that the service is to be operated by two vessels calling at approval from the Scottish Government to use the TIF Scheme to finance the infrastructure works.
Building on Rosyth four days per week.
This will increase the freight capacity available on the route but the vessels no longer the positive response from the Planning Committee on The Harbour and the TIF financing, we are considering carry passengers.
partnering options in our property business.
Rosyth is in a strong position to benefit from any work associated with the new Forth Bridge crossing.
the property team TCS progreSSed the After a disappointing year in 2009, TCS increased its throughput by over 10% and handled 307,300 boxes.
planning application Although ancillary revenue was less than expected, TCS produced an excellent increase in its operating profit from For the harbour the additional volume.
TCS has won three new services for 2011.
Following the acquisition of OTL, we decided to rationalise Recycling the number of separate valuers giving advice to the Group.
Following a review, we appointed DTZ to carry out all our After a very difficult year in 2009, 2010 was a year of consolidation and diversification.
The baling operations valuation work, namely valuations of OTL, the investment properties and the property development assets.
At 31st at Chatham and Tilbury were again challenging with the volumes varying significantly from period to period which December 2010, DTZ reported that the Market Value of the property development assets including OTL amounted to required careful control of costs.
Paper trading revenues were lower because of reduced demand from customers 115.5m compared with 108.5m at 31st December 2009.
An analysis of the Market Value is shown below: for recycled paper as paper prices were lower in Europe than in the UK, a situation not seen for over ten years.
Market Value Market Value Much more positively, there was an increase in the waste 31st 31st management division both in terms of revenue and December December 2010 2009 profitability and the new waste collection division produced m m a higher profit on a lower turnover than was budgeted.
Granton 6.3 5.4 This was a new division set up as a management initiative Western Harbour 4.2 4.3 to broaden the business base.
We are confident that 2011 The Harbour 8.7 6.2 will see a continued improvement in the performance of this division.
Burntisland and Methil 2.0 2.0 Grangemouth 5.7 5.6 Property Ocean Terminal 88.6 85.0 Following the acquisition in December 2009 of the remaining 50% of the share capital of OTL which we did 115.5 108.5 not own, 2010 was spent improving the tenant mix in the shopping centre and positioning it for future growth.
This Energy took place at a time when the roads outside OTL were badly Forth Energy, the strategic joint venture with SSE plc, has disrupted by tram works for over eight months of the year made good progress in relation to the biomass proposals and culminated in a very difficult December compounded referred to last year.
Three of the four biomass applications by the weather.
Nevertheless, the performance of OTL was to the Scottish Government Consenting Unit were encouraging with H&M, Frankie & Bennys and Oil & submitted with two planning applications being lodged Vinegar now trading.
Pure Gym has signed a lease since before the end of 2010.
Subsequently, Dundee City Council the year end and contract discussions are now taking place have deferred the Dundee biomass planning application in respect of two further restaurants.
to enable further work on air quality to be completed.
Falkirk District Council deferred their consideration on At the end of the year, DTZ valued the shopping the Grangemouth biomass plant pending receipt of centre at 88.6m, an increase of 3.6m compared further information.
As ship size increases in the container key perfOrmance indicatOrs market, fewer main ports in Europe will be able to handle The Board uses the annual budget as the base for the largest vessels but this will also entail a more developed measuring the Groups performance.
Financial and network of transhipment and feedering terminals which non-financial targets are set for individual senior managers may also see an increase in vessel size.
With this in mind, and for the businesses within the Group.
At the Annual both Tilbury and Grangemouth are well placed to see Strategy Review, the Board considers the financial growth in this sector of the market with additional capacity projections over a three year time horizon.
The overarching for at least the next five years and with an anticipation of aim is to increase the value of the Group for the benefit increased feedering vessel size.
The trends in traffic type suggest that container and Ro-Ro The KPIs which are used to measure this increase in traffic will continue to increase at a rate greater than the value are: average GDP of the UK: nearly all of this traffic will be European and therefore can be handled easily by our ports.
1 Underlying port operating profit 2 Growth in Market Value of the property assets Liquid bulks continue to be an important constituent of the 3 Growth in the Market Value of port assets make up of the Groups business.
This tonnage has seen a 4 Dividend per share reduction in 2009 and 2010 but if the price of oil continues 5 Net debt reduction at its current high level, then there is every indication that 6 Health and safety record the tonnages could stabilise at or around the 2010 level and perhaps also increase beyond this year.
In using the underlying port operating profit as a KPI, the Board is looking to increase the trading profit from the ports and recycling businesses excluding certain other financial the thruSt oF our effects such as revaluation changes to investment properties and significant one-off costs.
portS buSineSS The movement in the value of property assets is measured iS to manage our on an annual basis by the independent valuation carried out on the property development assets.
aSSetS eFFiciently The growth in the value of port assets is important because Dry bulks have been consistent in total volume terms over it shows how we are managing the port investment many years, however, in 2010, the volume was lower as properties and maximising their value.
it was affected by the downturn in the container business.
It is expected that this business will improve in 2011.
The target of a reduction in net debt was instituted in 2009 following the Boards decision that this should be a key The thrust of our ports business is to manage our assets area for focus.
efficiently and improve the return we get from individual operations through more efficient use of our resources The first four KPIs all show positive increases and the thereby releasing further assets for future development final two KPIs also show a positive trend in that they either in the ports or property businesses.
This is unlikely are both improving significantly.
to change in the near future.
trends in the pOrts business resOurces Ports are increasingly finding themselves as active Our two greatest resources are our employees and our participants in the supply chain for the movement of goods.
We employ 1,115 people throughout This means that, rather than just marketing shipping and the Group and our pension scheme has 992 pensioners handling capabilities to shipping lines, there are a variety and 498 deferred pensioners.
If the total number of persons of customers who, at various points in the supply chain, can employed within our various ports is included, then our control the movement of goods and to whom the port will economic activity encompasses many thousands more be marketing its services, including the producer of the who are reliant on the trade through our ports.
commodity, the shipping line, the distributor of the commodity and in some cases agents and trade boards.
The ports industry is such that our employees tend to Our main ports all have good access for landside remain with us for many years.
Health and safety is distribution and also, in the case of both Tilbury and paramount and we pay particular attention to the training Grangemouth, good access for the export of goods from and retraining of our employees, encouraging dialogue the UK.
between workforce and management to identify potential problem areas to minimise risk.
We encourage national None of our ports has the depth of water to handle the new vocational qualifications and support staff who wish to generation of container ships of 12,000 TEUs and more.
Our labour The normal capacity at Tilbury is ships of about 4,500 TEUs stability index was 94% in 2010 2009 94%.
and at Grangemouth less than 2,000 TEUs, although in 2007, a Maersk vessel of over 8,000 TEUs came alongside Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 business review continued The land under our ownership covers 1,600 acres and The recycling business has two main risk areas: commodity we also own over 4,700 acres of seabed adjacent the prices and volume.
The volume of commingled waste waterfront at Edinburgh.
The way in which we manage received will also have an effect on the amount of saleable these land assets is critical to the future success of the commodities.
The volume is managed by having a minimum Group.
We have shown in Tilbury that we have the expertise guaranteed volume from our major customer and by being to work with our customers to move businesses around the active in the market place for other sources such as local port to obtain greater value from the asset but we also work authority contracts and commercial collection contracts.
with our customers to help them maximise the benefits that With the increase in land fill tax going forward, there is they receive from being located in our ports.
In Leith, a every incentive for commingled waste to be maximised.
similar type of expertise is required except that the interaction is between the continuing port business at Leith and the requirements to develop the assets for property the portS buSineSS use.
In our view, this can only be achieved by a unified management structure which, although decentralised for haS a very wide the day-to-day business, is controlled centrally at a strategic level.
We are therefore, as a Group, seeking to Spread oF cuStomerS increase the value of our port assets by encouraging long-term agreements with major customers to secure and commoditieS income stream and enhance value and at the same time, develop our property assets over a long-term period to The property business has its foundation in the ownership regenerate the area around the port and so increase the of land which the Group has, particularly at Leith.
With the value of our land both absolutely and by reducing the benefit of being able to develop such a significant value gap between the Waterfront and the City centre.
brownfield site over many years, the main variable is what the take-up rate for this land might be.
This is even more important now in the current economic environment.
It is also more challenging to match spend on infrastructure risk The management of the business and the execution of the with adding value where there is little or no third party Groups strategy are subject to a number of risks.
The key transactional activity to rely on for valuation purposes.
business risks affecting the Group are considered to relate to the retail and property markets and the current global Bank Funding and Financial Covenants The Company economic environment.
The Company refinanced its banking facilities in December 2008.
The total facilities available to the Company at the Business Risk end of 2010 amounted to 255m 2009 275m, The Board does not consider that the Group faces any comprising two revolving credit facilities totalling 250m substantive strategic risks as all three business segments which mature on 30th June 2012.
The Company also has a are in business areas where there will be ongoing demand 5m overdraft facility which is reviewed on 31st July 2011. for those services.
The ports business has evolved over This is an on demand facility.
many years and with existing trade patterns, our ports are ideally located for that business, whether it be mainly within The average margin on the facility is 162 basis points.
Europe as regards the Scottish Ports or serving London 200m of borrowings have been fixed at an average interest and the South East of England from Tilbury and Chatham.
Net debt at 31st December The Group has a strong record of investing in modern plant 2010 amounted to 165.6m compared with 184.2m in and equipment and this, together with increased training for 2009.
This is well within the existing facilities.
The bank our employees, will enable us to meet the challenges of the funding for these facilities is on an unsecured basis.
The future in offering our port customers a quality cost effective Company has agreed that Bank of Scotland will have service for their needs.
recourse to it for up to 5m, until December 2013, of the 68m facility currently borrowed by OTL.
The remaining The ports business has a very wide spread of customers 63m of this OTL facility is non-recourse to the Company.
and commodities and is capable of adapting to market Details of the OTL facility are set out opposite.
change as witnessed over the last ten years by the business in sludge traffic, bauxite, fertiliser manufacture and export of The banking covenants for Forth Ports cover Tangible Net coal being replaced by increased container volumes, the Worth TNW, gearing and interest cover.
The minimum import of coal, new business such as animal feed, Ro-Ro TNW is 200m: the gearing level is based on not more than traffic and new paper customers.
The interest cover covenant is based on a minimum of 2.5 times profit before interest and tax.
The TNW covenant is tested monthly, with the other covenants tested half yearly at 30th June and 31st December each year.
The headroom on all of the financial covenants at the end of 2010 was comfortable.
18 Bank Funding and Financial Covenants OTL The Company has agreed a Recovery Plan with the Trustees of the Scheme which increased the contributions The OTL bank debt of 68m has a bullet repayment on 31st December 2015.
Interest excluding the margin on the two going forward, but at a lower cash rate than previously when the Company made larger payments into the Pension term loans covering the bank debt of 68m has been fixed at 5.59% on 63m and 6.11% on 5m for the period until Scheme than required to encourage the amalgamation of its two pension schemes.
The employer contribution rate is 31st December 2015 and 13th August 2013 respectively.
The banking covenants for OTL cover Loan-to-Value and 17.1%.
The Recovery Plan agreed with the Actuary requires an additional annual payment by the Company of 2.7m cash cover.
The Loan-to-Value covenant is tested next on 31st January 2014 by reference to the valuation of the for the next five years.
The Company is also looking at a scheme to implement an asset backed funding solution shopping centre as at 31st December 2013.
The cash cover ratio is 0.8:1 and is based on available cash to Senior to address a proportion of the scheme deficit.
The test is carried out quarterly.
The cash cover was comfortable at 31st December 2010.
Modest changes to the assumptions can have a significant effect on the liability position of the Scheme.
Full details of Financial Risks the assumptions used are given in Note 32 to the Accounts, however, a 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate The financial risks are limited to the normal commercial risks associated with running a business.
We have no major would result in a reduction increase in the liabilities of 10.8m.
If the inflation assumption was varied by 0.25%, currency exposure as all our business is done within the UK, however, we do acquire assets from overseas.
A variation in the real salary increase of 0.25% would vary the deficit by 3.1m.
The policy is to buy currency as soon as we know we have a foreign exchange liability.
other significant assumption is life expectancy.
The Scheme uses the PA92 Year of Birth tables with medium cohort Valuation Risks improvements, with members treated as though they were four years older than actual age.
The average life Three valuations are carried out each year: property development assets the value of which is not all reflected expectancy of the members has increased, on average, by one year since the previous triennial valuation.
The cost in the Balance Sheet, investment properties and the Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre.
With effect from 2010, DTZ has approximates to an increase in liabilities of 3.9m.
been appointed to carry out all of these valuations.
With the significant reduction in valuation of the property The two principal fund managers remain Lazard Asset Management Lazard and Legal and General L&G.
development assets in 2008, there is less scope for a further large reduction in the valuation of these assets given that The performances by the fund managers showed Lazard failing to achieve the benchmark in 2010 but L&G did the area of land comprising the property development assets are on the waterfront of a capital city.
exceed the benchmark over that pension year.
The Statement of Investment Principles has not changed the The investment properties are valued annually and showed allocation of the assets which remains at 60% in equities and 40% in Government gilts corporate bonds.
The actual a net increase in the valuation of 20m in 2009.
In 2010, it was decided that the property division should carry out an allocation as at 31st December 2010 was 58% equities and 41% gilts corporate bonds with 1% in cash and property.
indepth review of the investment property valuation which has resulted in an increase in the value of 20.4m to The Scheme had an accounting net deficit after tax under 243.5m excluding OTL.
The investment properties tend to have a lower yield in Tilbury as against a slightly higher IAS19 of 21.5m at 31st December 2010 2009 22.6m.
As has been seen over the last few years, the deficit position yield for the investment properties in Scotland.
These assets are long-term assets and fundamental to the can vary widely.
The Group paid in 7.6m to the Scheme in 2010 2009 7.9m.
business and so are less likely to be sold.
As with all investment properties, the property values can rise as General well as fall and will not be immune to general movement in values.
Whilst the Board believes that the Group has a good reputation in the market place, it cannot be complacent.
The shift in yields increased the valuation of OTL from 85m The nature of the ports industry is such that the day-to-day work carried out requires our employees to be totally aware at 31st December 2009 to 88.6m at 31st December 2010.
If the Loan-to-Value covenant had been operative on 31st of their working environment as there is always the possibility of accidents occurring.
Some of the cargoes December 2010, the headroom at that date would have been in excess of 20m.
which are handled are dangerous and require to be handled in accordance with specific procedures.
There is The Forth Ports Group Pension Scheme always the risk of accident but we have emergency plans in place which are reviewed regularly and updated The Group operates a defined benefit scheme which is more fully explained in Note 32 of the accounts.
triennial valuation of The Forth Ports Group Pension Scheme the Scheme was carried out as at 5th April Any significant risk from any of the above risk categories would be debated by the Board and an agreed procedure 2008.
The valuation showed a deficit at that date of 30.7m.
The funding level at April 2010 had improved marginally of handling that risk would be delegated to the relevant Executive Director as appropriate.
The Board has an annual to 86% with a deficit of 33.8m.
review of the key risks likely to be faced by the Group.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 business review continued This risk matrix is updated annually by the Group Risk and The Groups business is not particularly seasonal in nature, Insurance Manager who oversees the procedures involved however, its cash flow requirements may be affected by the in the identification of business risks and their compliance timing of major capital expenditure projects.
peak borrowing requirement net of cash was 185.7m in January and May with a minimum requirement of 166.9m in December.
On the basis of the budget for 2011, the essential business relatiOnships Group will not require an increase in its facility over the As part of the normal operation of the Group, we have next twelve months.
many business relationships to maintain be they with major customers, major suppliers, elected members of Parliament Accounting Policies UK, Scottish and European, local elected councillors and The critical accounting policies are Revenue Recognition council officials.
We also deal with many Government and Employee Benefits.
In the former, the two key areas agencies such as the MCA, Scottish Environmental of judgement are first the determination of any shortfall Protection Agency, Scottish Natural Heritage and others.
positions on guaranteed minimum tonnage minimum In the Boards view, there is no one single business revenue contracts in the ports business and second, relationship or group of business relationships which is, determining the liability for costs to complete the various in itself, material to the success of the Group.
Nevertheless, property developments and allocating those costs over it is important for both business segments to be able to the various developments.
The charge to the Income communicate effectively with all the stakeholders with Statement for pension costs will be determined by the whom we have a business relationship and to work with assumptions made by the Actuary and accepted by the them to achieve our joint aims.
Company in relation to the discount rate on gilts and corporate bonds, the expected rate of return on the assets and the mortality assumptions.
These are discussed further in Note 32 to the accounts.
finance Group revenue amounted to 181.9m 2009 173.9m.
The underlying group operating profit amounted to 49.8m New International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS compared with 42.2m revised in 2009. adopted in the year are discussed in the Accounting Policies section.
Taxation Excluding associates and joint ventures in 2009, the General effective rate of tax for the Group before exceptional items Certain sections of the Business Review contain forwardand revaluations for the year was 26.7% compared with looking statements that are based on managements 24.4% in 2009.
We expect the tax rate for 2011 to fall in line expectations, projections and assumptions.
We believe with the reduced corporation tax rate.
that these expectations, projections and assumptions are reasonable, based on the information available to us.
Cash Flow However, these statements are not guarantees of future The Group operating cash flow amounted to 58.7m 2009 performance and involve inherent risks and uncertainties 55.7m.
Net interest paid increased by 4.2m: tax paid and other factors which may cause actual achievements amounted to 7.7m compared with a repayment of 0.8m to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such in 2009. statements.
The Group does not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward Capital Expenditure looking statements in light of new information or future events.
Capital expenditure in 2010 amounted to 5.2m compared with 7.6m in 2009.
2.6m was spent purchasing plant and equipment.
The expenditure on property development assets amounted to 0.6m.
Capital Structure The Company has 45.7m shares in issue with a nominal value of 50p per share.
103,610 new shares were issued during the year to meet obligations under the Groups share option scheme.
The net debt of the Company and OTL at 31st December 2010 amounted to 231.5m 2009 251.1m.
The level of gearing as measured by total net debt excluding non-recourse debt divided by total shareholders equity amounted to 62% compared with 80% at 31st December 2009 as restated.
Should the Company, for any reason, seek to refinance its borrowings with another financial institution, then one bank has the right to demand a prepayment fee equal to 0.5% of the amount prepaid and or cancelled.
The OTL loan of 68m is repayable on demand if there is a change of control of Forth Ports.
