The GAME Group plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Business review GAME Group is the only European retail brand to be building a pc and video games offer across multiple channels.
Group turnover 1,772.4m -10.0% 2009: 1,968.6m Gross profit margin 27.8% 170 basis points 2009: 26.1% Profit before tax 84.2m -28.2% 2009: 117.4m Our performance The GAME Group plc 33 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Nintendo competing globally for market share through five consoles Sony PlayStation 3 PS3 The GAME Group plc is and PlayStation Portable PSP, Microsoft Xbox Europes leading specialist 360, and Nintendo Wii and DS and providing retailer of pc and video game ever evolving entertainment experiences on these consoles.
Each machine is at a different products.
The business started price point and therefore a different stage of its trading in 1991 from 11 stores lifecycle.
A wider range of successful consoles has resulted in more choice and video games in the UK, and has grown both now appeal to a much wider range of organically and through customers.
acquisition to a 1,380 store Nintendo in particular, with the Wii and DS, have chain as at 31 January 2010. attracted more females and families than ever We operate stores and before with their innovative technology and social, inclusive games.
eCommerce websites in ten countries.
Nintendos Wii, DS lite and DSi represent the majority of unit sales with 61 per cent market share.
Microsofts Xbox 360 holds 16 per cent share and the Sony PS3 and PSP have 23 per cent source IDG February 2010.
Our market There are over 28 million third generation The market experienced exceptional sales in consoles installed in the UK, more than double 2008 09 following strong demand for console the number of the previous generation.
Many hardware, particularly the Nintendo formats.
In homes have more than one console, and we 2009 10 sales slowed, primarily as a result of the see customers shopping across the different decrease in demand for Nintendo products.
Despite this, the global market was still worth $41 billion, similar in scale to cinema and DVD.
The ratio of consoles to households is lower in Continental European markets, representing a The European market is the third largest market real opportunity for growth.
GAME is the market leader in Europe, with a multi channel offer in ten The manufacturers are now focussed on countries, including a business in Australia.
providing more software and peripheral technology to the market, to extend the life of The pc and video games market has grown the third generation of products and create rapidly in recent years, driven by new new ways to play.
A broadening in customer technology launches and a broadening choice benefits the specialist.
Technology In 1995, the start of the first generation of We believe that, although the existing discconsole technology, the global market was based formats will dominate the market for the worth $198 million.
It grew to $1.9 billion over the next five to seven years, the pc and video next ten years as the first and second games market will become progressively more generation consoles came to market, and was digital in the next decade.
GAME Group is the dominated by Sony with their PlayStation 1 and only European retail brand to be building a pc PlayStation 2 machines.
and video games offer across multiple channels, to give customers one simple interface with a Third generation is very different.
The market is multitude of providers.
more dynamic with Sony, Microsoft and GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Business Review continued Customers are now able to enjoy interactive Third generation installed base entertainment on smart phones, social network January 2010 sites, online browsers and TV set top boxes.
Entertainment brands such as Warner, Disney and the BBC have entered the market and are Installed Base Households producing interactive content for their Country m m customers.
GAME Group is developing relationships with all new format holders and UK 28.8 25 service providers to generate suitable services France 18.9 32 and product offers for our customers.
Iberia 11.9 18 Scandinavia 1.9 9 However, it is the existing format holders and Australia 6.4 8 publishers who remain the principal drivers of Czech republic 0.2 5 innovation in the market, and in the short to medium term it is their disc based formats which will dominate customer sales.
Nintendos introduction of the Wii Fit balance work with all supplier partners to offer many of board and the Wii Motion Plus controller for the Wii platform have introduced new levels of these additional items exclusively to our customers.
interactivity, and caught the imagination of a wider range of customers.
Four of the top ten The majority of new titles are also released with best selling video games in 2009 used this technology, collectively selling over 4 million facilities for online play, presenting the opportunity to sell time and points cards which units of software in the UK alone.
are used to pay for time online as well as virtual content such as maps, new vehicles, weapons The launch of a new iteration of handheld Nintendo DS, the Nintendo DSi, in 2009 also or characters.
The online experience is also enhanced with additional controllers, demonstrated customers appetite for new technology, and we took strong market share in headphones and other accessories.
territories where we are market leader, particularly the UK.
Geography The number of consoles and handhelds in the All three manufacturers have announced that top three markets, North America, Western Europe and Japan has grown to 382 million they will launch new technology in the next 12 18 months, maintaining consumer demand source IDG, February 2010.
The UK is the third largest market in the world, behind the USA and and stretching the life cycle of their existing platforms.
Japan, and the largest in Europe.
In Europe France is the second largest market, followed by In addition, new releases for the PlayStation 3 Spain, Germany, Italy and Scandinavia.
and Xbox 360 have continued to maximise their superior processing power, and games such as The UK continues to be our most mature market, with more than one unit of hardware to every Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, Assassins Creed 2 and FIFA 2010 have been successful with their household when looking at the installed base of 3rd generation consoles.
The other markets are gameplay, graphics and sound.
continuing to grow, but are some way from reaching maturity.
There are now many retail opportunities on major new releases.
The majority of triple A We believe that our strong brand proposition in launches arrive with limited edition boxset versions, additional digital content, memorabilia every territory, with three brands in the UK, is the right offer for customers who seek value, range, and branded peripherals and hardware.
We Our performance The GAME Group plc 35 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 UK installed base by format January 2010 Sony Nintendo Sony Microsoft Nintendo Sony Total Format PS2 DS PSP Xbox 360 Wii PS3 Launch date Nov-00 Mar-05 Sep-05 Dec-05 Dec-06 Mar-07 Sales units 10.0m 10.7m 3.6m 4.9m 6.6m 3.0m 38.8m Launch price 299 99 179 279 209 179 425 Current price 94 159 149 225 129 199 159 179 249 Further information go to: Page 43.
service and rewards for their loyalty.
Despite amongst the console manufacturers and the commoditisation of many video game software developers.
Products like Wii Fit, Brain products, the pace of innovation is not slowing Training, Singstar and Guitar Hero have been and customers and suppliers continue to very popular, to the extent that Brain Training is seek out the specialist as new products come officially the best selling game in uk history, to market.
ahead of Grand Theft Auto and Call of Duty.
Wii Fit continues to dominate the top 10 chart Having expanded our store portfolio rapidly after two years on sale.
over the last three years, to over 1,300 outlets, our capital spend has reduced in the past year, With strong brands and unique propositions as we focused on opening select stores in which appeal to core and casual gamers specific markets.
alike, GAME and Gamestation are well placed to serve the expanded range of consumers.
Away from the developed markets, there are a The depth of our product range, detailed number of emerging markets which also have knowledge of products and close links to the increasing consumer demand for pc and video games industry combine to serve the needs of games, and the right infrastructure for everyone who buys video games from the manufacturers, publishers and retailers to most expert to the most novice.
As our consumers and products continue to Customers change, we use our Reward Card data to As the market has evolved, so have our personalise our offer further and develop new customers.
We have monitored their purchasing services for the future.
and behavioural trends closely thanks to the intelligence gained from our Reward Card data.
Products The range of video games products available to The market has become less dominated by consumers has never been larger.
There are five the traditional young male core gamer and third generation consoles trading successfully in over time, we have seen significantly more all of our territories.
Consumers are different in females and customers aged over 35 coming each market, and we tailor our offer into our stores, buying games for themselves and accordingly.
For example, as the PlayStation 3 their families.
becomes more appealing to mass market This has led to further innovation and creativity consumers in the UK and Iberia, sales of GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Business review continued PlayStation 2 are slowing rapidly.
However, in Czech Republic where the market is less mature, GAME generates gross sales of PS2 are still strong.
margins in excess of 40% on preowned sales.
Customers look to the specialist retailer to advise them on this wide range of hardware, software, accessories and preowned products.
Top selling new games in 2009 Hardware: Third generation games consoles run software and feature multi-media capabilities.
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 These are manufactured and supplied by Microsoft Xbox 360, Sony PS2, PS3 and the 2.
FIFA 10 handheld PSP, and Nintendo Wii and 3.
Wii Sports Resort handheld DS Lite and DSi.
Wii Fit Plus As each console goes through its life cycle, 6.
Assassins Creed II manufacturers lower prices and introduce new 7.
Mario Kart Wii peripherals to maintain demand and increase 8.
Mario & Sonic at the Winter Olympic Games functionality.
Call of Duty: World At War In the last 12 months each of the home consoles 10.
FIFA 09 has received a manufacturer price cut.
Sony and Microsoft cut the price of the PS3 and Xbox 360 in Q3 2009, and Nintendo added the Wii Motion Plus accessory to their standard Wii bundle.
Nintendo and Microsofts consoles are now both below the mass market price point of 200, whereas Sony has yet to make that move for PS3.
We anticipate there may be further and create new games.
Although much of the price reductions in 2010. growth in the third generation has been led by the introduction of new gameplay ideas, such as Each manufacturer is aiming to be the Brain Training and Wii Fit, it is the updated entertainment hub in homes.
In 2009 Microsoft iterations of existing franchises which have broken announced a partnership with satellite software sales records.
In 2009 Call of Duty: broadcaster BSkyB, allowing the Xbox 360 to be Modern Warfare 2 became the biggest used as a TV receiver, and Nintendo announced entertainment launch in history, taking $550 million a partnership with the BBC iPlayer.
in the UK and USA in the first 24 hours of sale.
Global revenues of the game have now Hardware sales are critical to build the installed exceeded $1 billion.
base of units, and drive follow on sales of software and peripherals.
GAME tends to make Accessories: Accessories are becoming an gross margin levels of around 10 to 12 per cent increasing feature of interactive entertainment.
Microphones, guitars, drum kits, steering wheels and skate boards are all sold as add-ons for Software: Entertainment software for pc each console.
The arrival of PlayStation Move in machines and video games consoles is 2010 is expected to broaden the range even produced by a range of global publishers, led by further, as will Microsofts Project Natal with its the console manufacturers, plus Electronic Arts, controller-free functionality.
GAME generates Activision Blizzard and Ubisoft.
Each publisher margins of approximately 30 to 35 per cent on works with a range of external and in-house accessories.
development studios to build strong franchises Our performance The GAME Group plc 37 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Preowned: All of our outlets offer customers the Our business opportunity to trade in console software and We have a leading pc and video games hardware for cash, credit or a discount off proposition in ten countries.
This allows customers to save money by using their old games or consoles as We are the market leader in three territories: UK, currency against a new purchase.
The resulting Iberia and the Czech Republic.
We are the joint stock of preowned products allows us to offer a leaders in Scandinavia, and the number two range of great value games to our customers.
specialist brand in both France and Australia.
All preowned games have the same 28 day guarantee as new games to ensure customers We have an online offer in all countries, receive the same quality, at a lower price.
although in the UK our offer is more advanced, with three websites Gamestation, Gameplay, Our preowned business has grown rapidly over and GAME.
GAME also features a pc digital the last two years as it appeals to the needs of distribution service, which has been expanding todays more price conscious consumers.
A team of experts manage the preowned and trade-in prices centrally, which has helped us to In each market our business is at a different optimise stock levels and improve profitability.
stage of maturity, but the offer that we present GAME generates gross margins in excess of to customers is consistent, although localised 40 per cent on preowned sales.
and adapted for each channel.
This combination of attributes across all Comparison of core attributes by retailer Attribute GAME Independent Generalist Supermarket eCommerce Digital specialist provider Value - Mint - Preowned Trial Trial Range Service Loyalty Location Technology Business relationships Own distribution Channel Stores eCommerce Digital Further information go to: Page 43.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Business review continued distribution channels presents a unique Our specialist attributes proposition to customers.
As more retailers enter our market, some are trying to replicate these services.
While this presents a competitive threat, The customer is at the heart of all our activities and our specialist brands represent: as yet no competitor has combined all of our attributes, or all of our channels, to replicate the full offer for customers.
Value: Offering preowned products, trade-in deals, exclusive promotions, regular deal of the week campaigns, Sales Cycle console bundle offers and loyalty points.
While the state of the wider economy understandably has an impact on our Product and Product and range: Stocking the widest range customers spending, it is the launch of new range of products, first to market with new technology which most determines the games and consoles, accompanied by exclusive products and content.
The pc and video games market is driven by Service: Well trained, knowledgeable and core gamers who are passionate about the passionate employees guiding customers, and championing new launches for products, and devote a large percentage of suppliers.
their disposable income to video game products.
Casual gamers are more recent entrants to the market, who are switching more Loyalty: Giving our 14 million loyal customers something extra, and using of their entertainment budget to games and their feedback to develop new services interactive products.
The Reward scheme gives customers a real reason to stay loyal to us The launch of a new console drives sales, first and gives us invaluable market for the new product itself and then for the information.
associated software and peripheral items.
All five of the third generation formats have been in the market for over three years, and In every channel, our brands are supported by sales have slowed, particularly on Nintendo a dedicated infrastructure and support teams.
However, GAME is still benefiting through the launch of new software and Location: Maximising our customer reach peripheral items.
All of the formats are selling with well positioned stores, websites and well and their price points, a reflection of the digital services.
demand for the product, are holding up.
Sales of software have grown on Microsoft and Technology: Using the latest technology Sonys platforms, but have declined on to improve our customer offer and Nintendo products in line with the decline in provide an efficient, joined up service.
Business relationships: Maintaining close As the key partner for manufacturers and strategic partnerships with suppliers to publishers in Europe, GAME receives the leading deliver a great proposition to customers, preferential stock allocations, and high allocation of new products.
Our employees understand the importance of ensuring that customers take home everything Distribution: Ensuring immediate availability at launch and efficient they need to enjoy their games experience, replenishment, to stores and to customers including hardware, software, peripherals and a direct to their homes, in every territory.
Customers rightly expect a high level of service when buying such a relatively high priced item, and we invest in thorough training Our performance The GAME Group plc 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Revenue and gross margin split As the key partner for manufacturers and publishers Group sales Group gross margin in Europe, GAME receives the 09 10 08 09 09 10 08 09 leading allocation of new % of total sales GM as % of sales products.
Earning and maintaining customers Across our portfolio our stores are approximately loyalty as they move through their own video 1,000 sq ft on average.
The format of each store games life cycle is crucial to our success, and is generally similar, with clear merchandising we use many tools, including our Reward Card, across a wide range of formats, high profile offers to support this.
and promotions, and easily accessible information and advice.
We regularly review the High profile marketing campaigns and targeted layout and format to meet the rapidly changing communication to customers reiterate our demands of our customers, and to best ability to source the widest selection of games showcase the products that we are selling.
with attractive bundle deals and offers, and In 2009 we updated 14 stores in the UK to include combined with the loyalty card discount, more interactivity, including kiosks, demonstration encourage them to return to GAME for their areas, and more screens showing new releases additional software and accessories.
As always, we are aiming to generate an exceptional customer experience.
As more add-on and digital content is launched, our teams advise customers about UK and Ireland how it can improve their gameplay and how to We are the market leader in the UK.
Our GAME access it with exclusive download codes and brand is the leading video games retailer, with points cards.
stores located in prime locations in shopping centres, high streets and out-of-town retail parks.
Once customers have finished playing a game, We also have in store concessions in Hamleys, they can trade it in, and buy the next game for Selfridges, Bentalls and Fenwick.
Customers can store the value of each are designed to appeal more to mass market trade-in on a unique trade-in card, giving them and casual gamers.
the best possible price for their game as soon as possible.
Each store then checks the quality of Gamestation is a leading challenger brand in the product, repairs it if necessary, and puts it the UK, with stores located in popular secondary back on sale within a couple of hours.
The store format and marketing appeal more to the core gamers.
We actively encourage this end to end sales cycle with customers in all channels International recommend it, add to it, sell it, guarantee it, We will continue to open stores in the markets reward it, trade it to drive trust in our brands.
which give us the greatest return and can deliver further benefits of scale.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Business review continued Overview of stores by territory UK and France Iberia Australia Scandinavia Czech Group Ireland Republic Total Store numbers 677 199 288 119 68 29 1,380 Total store Sq.
open between 25 and 40 stores this year, which Australia: We are the number two specialist in is less than prior years.
Australia, and have expanded rapidly since we entered the market in 2006.
We are reviewing We have opened 64 stores outside the UK and our store portfolio and brand proposition to closed 7, taking the total to 703 at year end.
In ensure we have the right fit to drive further every international location we have grown growth.
Czech Republic: GAME is the market leader, France: GAME is the number two specialist in having entered Czech Republic in 2008 with the French market.
The French market is the acquisition of JRC.
All stores have been different to many in Europe, and consumers are rebranded to GAME and we have introduced very comfortable shopping in hypermarkets for a preowned and trade in offer for the first time.
These brands have the leading The Czech market, currently very pc oriented, share of the video games market.
Our specialist shows good opportunity for growth and it will proposition appeals to many loyal customers, also give us a platform from which to expand and we are reviewing our store portfolio and into other Central European markets.
brand proposition to drive further growth.
Operating Infrastructure Iberia: We are the number one retailer of pc In each of our markets, our stores and and video games product in Spain and eCommerce operations are supported by a Portugal.
In the last ten years, operating under local distribution centre and head office.
This the GAME brand, we have accelerated into allows us to focus our entire operations on the the market leading position having kept close needs of our customers and our supplier to our customers and our supplier partners.
have benefited from the rapid growth of shopping centres and are represented in every Business relationships We have strong new retail development in the country.
relationships and key strategic partnerships with supplier teams in each territory.
In many Scandinavia: The Scandinavian market is very instances these have been established over focussed on pc products and consequently we two decades.
We work together and share have tailored our offer in Sweden, Denmark customer feedback, which in turn helps us to and Norway to meet this demand.
We are the improve our offer, generate outstanding deals equal number one retailer of pc and video and promotions, and to implement exciting games product in the market.
product launches for our customers.
Our performance The GAME Group plc 41 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 The UK is our most mature online market, and we are sharing our experience across the The GAME website has Group as the other markets mature.
The offered a digital distribution introduction of a websphere platform over the service for the last three years.
next two years will give us a uniform platform and infrastructure which, when tailored to Although still a small part of each market, will provide a market leading our revenues less than proposition throughout Europe.
1 per cent it has allowed us Online gaming: All of the consoles have the to offer a full service to our capacity for customers to play games against each other online, and this form of gameplay is customers across all becoming increasingly popular.
To play online customers need to buy a subscription or time cards to access the console owners online service such as Xbox Distribution In all of our markets, most titles sell Live or PlayStation Home and to acquire the largest number of units in the first week.
Immediate availability at launch, and timely All of our outlets sell these cards and work with replenishment, is therefore crucial to our suppliers to market their online services to our credibility.
We have state-of-the-art solutions in customers.
Xbox Live cards and associated our UK and Spanish operations which together items such as wireless adapters have become support almost 1,000 stores, plus a full direct to some of our biggest selling accessories.
We have smaller, less automated facilities within our less mature territories which Digital distribution: The GAME website has still deliver the same level of service to our offered a digital distribution service for the last suppliers, stores and customers.
We are able to three years.
Although still a small part of our scale up our facilities by introducing more revenues less than 1 per cent it has allowed us automation as the need arises.
to offer a full service to our customers across all channels, and monitor consumer demands.
Online retailing, online gaming We are the only entertainment retailer in and digital distribution Europe to offer a specialist video games offer Ecommerce is a key element of our operating across all three distribution channels.
It gives customers access to our brands 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, allowing them The digital arena is very disparate, but as it to shop for the best deals, research new grows we will ensure GAME offers a consumer products, ask for advice and share reviews.
To date we have opened a Our operation is now truly multi channel, with GAME presence in PlayStation Home, which our websites supporting our stores, and our has received over 90,000 visitors in four weeks, stores driving traffic to our websites.
We have and are developing a similar presence for extended our brand campaigns online to other arenas.
include social networking sites and detailed search optimisation marketing.
We are launching a download site for mobile phone games, and are developing other Our investment over the last three years has services which will allow us to offer customers created a market leading website in the UK, all elements of the GAME proposition in the where we are the third largest online retailer digital arena.
Our brand proposition is the same as our stores, although prices and deals vary in order to compete with other online retailers.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Business review continued Planning for future growth We are very aware of the challenging economic conditions facing all of our markets, Our specialist proposition has and will continue to strengthen our proposition to give customers recognisable value for been the cornerstone of our money, with particular focus on trade-in and offer for nearly two decades, preowned.
We recognise that retail conditions will remain tough, and that the video games allowing us to build strong market is transitioning from higher priced brand recognition across hardware to software and accessories, which will result in revenue pressures.
our customers needs are changing and we are responding.
We aim to maintain and build our market leading position Total capital expenditure in the current year is by evolving our proposition expected to be in the region of 20 million to 25 million including information technology to serve customers across and head office expenditure for the Group.
multiple channels in the next We will continue to focus on territories and activities that give us the best return for our decade.
We are best placed to serve We maintain tight controls on operating costs the needs of our customers, throughout the business.
This includes a review of staff hours in our stores, a review of our using our established store support staff and infrastructure which has led to network, our popular websites, the closure of our distribution and refurbishment and our unique customer facilities in York, and a rationalisation of our store portfolio in the UK.
data from the Reward Card.
For the year ahead we see strong ongoing demand for third generation consoles with price cuts predicted to stimulate the market further, coupled with the launch of motion sensor technologies and a strong line up of new software and accessories.
In the longer term, we see ongoing commitment from all of the key manufacturers to bring new technology to our market.
We believe that we will continue to be a key partner for our suppliers and our customers, and will play a central role in both the launch of next generation technology and bringing new channels to market.
