42 Business Review When combined with the growth opportunity provided through Nationwide, we believe the business is well positioned to deliver sustainable earnings growth, averaging 15% over the medium-term.
The strong earnings growth delivered in 2010 reflects When combined with the growth opportunity provided a number of contributory factors.
Revenue increases through Nationwide and from re-investing our strong were seen in the core categories of car maintenance free cash flow in similar opportunities, we believe and cycling.
Gross margin enrichment as a result the business is well positioned to deliver sustainable of mix, improved purchasing prices and a higher earnings growth, averaging 15% over the medium-term.
participation of the Halfords service offer was also Group strategy evident.
Finally, the successful implementation of a The four elements of the Groups organic growth series of initiatives reduced the cost base.
plan are: Acquisition activity has been firmly established 1.
Extending range and service advantage as an important component of the Groups future David Wild growth, following the purchase in February 2010 of 2.
Investing in the store portfolio Chief Executive Nationwide Autocentres Nationwide.
Ongoing focus on cost control and repair under the Halfords brand represents a significant earnings opportunity for the Group.
Leveraging the Halfords brand in multi-channel The lack of quality retail sites to facilitate the rapid The strength of the Groups cash flows and balance scaling of our Central European operations led to the sheet allows us to augment the above organic decision to close these operations and signalled the strategy through the acquisition of quality, adjacent, Groups intention to focus its resources on UK growth domestic businesses.
opportunities in the near term.
ExTENDING RANGE AND SERVICE The core UK retail operations have generated sustained ADVANTAGE high single digit operating profit growth, in the 5 years Halfords Retail maintains market-leading positions following Halfords flotation on the London Stock across a unique blend of categories with ranges of Exchange, despite changing consumer spending unrivalled breadth and depth.
We are confident that this can be maintained.
strives to enhance its position in each of its markets, This confidence reflects the opportunity through our seeking out product innovation and new ranges.
leading positions in strong markets, and the continued To complement the product offer, store colleagues development of our multi-channel offer to grow likeare trained to provide expert customer advice and for-like sales.
This is backed by active gross margin deliver value-for-money wefit services.
These factors management and tight cost control leading to increases differentiate the offer from the competition and act as a in operating profit ahead of revenue.
