HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 8 Business and financial review Business review The end of the financial year marked the completion of our three-year strategy laid out in March 2007.
During this time, the Group has delivered growth in profit before tax and exceptional items of over 50% and increased earnings per share by over 40%.
It is also pleasing that most of the strategic objectives that were laid out in March 2007 have been successfully achieved.
The revitalisation of our stores, particularly HMV UK, has been a major highlight.
We have evolved our product mix to compensate for rapid change in the entertainment markets, adding 166m of sales from new product categories, and outperformed the markets for music, visual and games.
Across HMV and Waterstones, we have accumulated four million loyalty cardholders, ahead of our expectations, which demonstrates our customers affinity to our brands and better enables us to meet their preferences.
We also reduced our costs by 30m per annum by realising the synergies that come from working more efficiently as a Group.
The one area of our business that was disappointing is Waterstones, where insufficient focus on our core strengths as a range bookseller was exacerbated by the challenge of restructuring our supply chain.
However, we have identified clear opportunities over both the short and medium term to significantly improve the performance of Waterstones.
Following the transformation programme, the Group is on a much stronger financial footing than was the case three years ago.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 9 We are no longer a one-dimensional Within the music industry, value is By focusing on these initiatives, as well retailer facing rapidly changing product increasingly shifting from recorded music as the continued tight management of markets, as HMV stores have continued to to other sources of revenue, including the costs and margins, we are targeting a evolve to respond quickly to the changing high-growth market of entertainmentnet margin for HMV UK of c. 5.0%5.5% entertainment markets in which we operate.
inspired fashion and related merchandise, over the medium term.
At the same time, we have accelerated the which fits strongly with both the HMV offer evolution of HMV as an entertainment and customer base.
HMV has made a good Growing in Live and digital brand by investing in high growth parts of start in fashion and merchandise, driven The most significant development in HMVs the industry, namely live music and digital.
largely by a range of band merchandise.
evolution as an entertainment brand over A broader range of fashion is now being On 26 March 2010, we outlined a new, the last 12 months has been our entry into rolled-out to our stores, for which a team clearly focused strategic agenda for the the fast-growing live music market, which of buyers with fashion retailing expertise Group, which will enable us to deliver in the UK is forecast to become one-third has been recruited.
New in-store fit-out and further, sustainable growth over the greater than the value of recorded music display called The Studio is being rolled-out medium and long term.
Following a successful year as across our store estate, with completion is built around the three main pillars.
a joint venture partner with MAMA Group by September 2010, which will help to drive These are as follows: to own and operate live music venues, our mix of these products from 3% at the on 29 January 2010 we completed the end of the last financial year to 9% by 2013.
Continuing to evolve HMVs acquisition of MAMA for 46.0m in cash.
A similar product mix evolution is taking place in HMV International.
product mix The performance of these venues strengthened following the formation Mobile handsets are increasingly important Building on the significant success of of our joint venture, with the two largest as entertainment devices and complement the last three years, we intend to maintain venues, the HMV Hammersmith Apollo the technology offer in our stores.
Orange sales within HMV, whilst progressively and HMV Forum, enjoying record trading concessions offering a range of handsets evolving the product mix through several during 2009.
During the last 12 months, tailored for music, film and games, new and existing strategies.
We have we have successfully combined our live including the Apple i-Phone, are therefore clearly demonstrated that the HMV brand and retail assets to drive venue utilisation being rolled-out across our stores.
can successfully stretch into new related and product sales by leveraging product areas to compensate for the Furthermore, we expect to maximise our HMVs artist and supplier relationships.
broad-based changes taking place in our position as the last remaining high street These relationships also enabled us to traditional markets.
Our main focus over entertainment specialist by outperforming launch in February 2010 the Next Big the last three years has been to build from the markets for music, visual and games.
Thing, a brand new music festival across a zero base a strong offer in technology This will be achieved by building on the all MAMA venues.
products, which has grown to 6% of HMV loyalty of our most regular customers, UKs sales, and we are confident that we offering product in the most compelling will increase this to 12% by 2013 through ways possible and establishing leadership space and range extension.
and authority in new and emerging formats.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 10 Business and financial review Business review The acquisition of MAMA also includes There are further opportunities for Turnaround at Waterstones some of the most valuable summer music Waterstones to grow sales of non-book We have a clear strategy to turn around festival brands in the UK and globally, which products, particularly stationery and Waterstones by reinforcing our core were not within our previous joint venture.
e-book technology and related accessories, strength as a range bookseller, and to Over half-a-million visitors attended these for which we are targeting a 10% sales maximise our position as the last remaining festivals in 2009, including the international mix by 2013, up from 6% in our last specialist bookseller on the UK high street.
brands Global Gathering and Godskitchen, financial year.
This includes the roll-out of and in the UK, Lovebox, The Great Escape Paperchase stationery concessions in an The Waterstones front-of-store offer is and Escape into the Park.
initial 20 stores, which we are confident can being refocused to reflect better the local be achieved with no impact on book sales interests of our customers by reducing the We expect this new division of the Group or range.
number of centrally-selected discounted to grow organically through increasing the books and giving back this space to utilisation, occupancy and related sales at We have made an excellent start selling branches to mount their own promotional existing venues, and by adding two or three e-books from waterstones.
The customer experience new venues per year.
A new classic rock approaching one million e-book titles generated by this is not easily replicated by festival, High Voltage, has been added for downloaded from our site.
As publishers the online or mass merchant competition, 2010.
A significant opportunity also exists increase the range of e-books from the and so we expect our share of the book in the market for tickets, where we aim existing 30,000 titles, we expect this to market to grow.
A relaunch of the to leverage our venue tickets to build a continue to grow strongly.
Waterstones brand, to re-engage our business of scale, with an aspiration to sell With the efficiency gains latent in the book customers with this new agenda, took three million tickets by 2012 13.
In total, hub now being realised, Waterstones has place in May 2010. the Group is targeting EBIT of c. 15m from a strong platform for which to deliver this the activities of its Live division in 2012 13.
Sales of the deep range, those titles ranked turnaround agenda.
The exit from the market beyond the 5,000 bestsellers, represent In September 2009, we acquired a 50% at the end of 2009 of Borders UK, the last c. 50% of the UK book market and continue equity stake in 7digital, whose leading remaining national specialist competitor on to be a key driver of market growth.
technology platform now powers HMVs the high street, is a further opportunity which However, Waterstones underperformed music download offer in the UK and Canada we expect to contribute to improved net in this segment of the market during 2009, and an e-books store for Waterstones.
margins for Waterstones of 2%-3% in the as availabilities of these titles were adversely 7digital is also a leading B2B provider of short term, with a target of 3%-4% in the impacted by issues arising from the roll-out digital entertainment, with a client base that medium term.
This was corrected during includes Spotify, BlackBerry, Samsung and In January 2010, Dominic Myers our final quarter, when a fully functioning numerous FMCG brands, which enables was appointed Managing Director of book hub restored availabilities, enabling the Group to participate in the growth Waterstones, and I am pleased with local branches to carry a range more in digital entertainment beyond our the progress that has so far been made suited to their local markets and to focus own branded websites.
This investment in this business as well as the positive on bringing to life individual titles beyond strategically positions the Group in an reaction of our customers, suppliers the most highly publicised.
emerging part of the market with potential and employees to the turnaround plans.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 11 Outlook Despite the significant changes we are pushing through our retail businesses, we are confident that by executing the strategies that have been laid out and having identified further operating cost opportunities, we can rebuild profits at Waterstones and deliver consistent underlying profits in HMV.
Overlaid onto this will be our rapid growth in the new HMV Live division.
By maintaining a clear focus on these objectives, we believe the Group is in a stronger position to deliver long-term, sustainable growth.
Simon Fox Chief Executive Officer 29 June 2010 So, exciting times ahead.
Lets take a look HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 12 Business and financial review Business review Evolving as an entertainment HMV has a unique relationship with its customers based around their passion for entertainment.
We are maximising this by delivering content to them whether this is consumed at home, brand.
Moving with technology Play it again, and again HMV is now established as a place to buy Re Play is HMVs pre-played games  technology.
Our total games offer consistently ranges include Apple iPods and related outperformed the market during the year, accessories, headphones, speaker docks and Re Play has been a key factor in this.
We are continuing to By offering our customers great trade-in add both space in our stores and new offers against the very latest and most products, as we are targeting 12% of coveted new releases, our value HMVs sales from technology by 2013. credentials are reinforced.
The future with Orange Mobile handsets are becoming increasingly important as entertainment devices, and our store offer now reflects this.
Orange concessions are being rolled-out to around 60 stores, offering a range of handsets suitable for music, film and games.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 13 Been there, got the tee-shirt, the mug, the poster The most popular entertainment properties are increasingly presented as franchises.
HMV is uniquely positioned to offer these product ranges to a customer base that is passionate about entertainment.
Fashion sense Music and fashion have always been inextricably linked.
 fashion is, therefore, a great fit with the both the HMV brand and customer base.
We have made a good start in fashion, driven by our ranges of band-related tee-shirts.
Whilst these remain part of our offer, we are broadening our ranges of fashion and accessories.
An exciting new shop-in-shop in which to merchandise these products, The Studio, is being rolled-out to all of our stores early in our new financial year.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 14 Business and financial review Business review Growing in Live and Digital.
7 is our magic number 7digital provides HMV and Waterstones with a first-class technology platform to power our digital offers in music and books.
Beyond our own websites, it also enables us to participate in the growth of digital media more widely, as 7digital provides on-pack and loyalty promotions to global brands such as Kit-Kat, Calvin Klein, Hugo Boss, amongst others, and delivers digital content for leading consumer electronics, mobile and online brands, including BlackBerry, Spotify, Last FM, Philips MP3, Pure and Samsung.
Music downloads purchased from these and other B2B clients are delivered by 7digtial and, therefore, HMV Group.
Now on theatrical release We opened our first cinema this year in partnership with Curzon, above the HMV store in Wimbledon.
Comprising three screens and a licensed bar, HMVcurzon is an ambient and high quality cinema experience which enjoys great support among local cinema-goers.
Our Number One formula As well as places for some of the best-known artists to perform at, our live venues are also being utilised for events that can drive product sales.
Customers who pre-order a new CD or DVD from hmv.
com have the opportunity to attend the artists launch event for free, and this combination very frequently propels new product to the top of the charts.
Last year, this formula was used to successfully launch new product for Take That, Paul Weller, Pixie Lott, Groove Armada and Lost Prophets, among others.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 15 The hot ticket for venues and festivals In addition to live music venues, this years acquisition of MAMA provides us with ownership of leading festival brands, which in 2009 attracted over 500,000 visitors across the UK and rest of Europe, Asia and the Americas.
Our festivals include Godskitchen, Global Gathering, Lovebox, the Great Escape, Escape into the Park and High Voltage.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Everything else by the book High-quality gift stationery and the devices on which to access 16 e-books are a natural fit with our book offer and customer base.
Paperchase stationery concessions are being introduced into Business and financial review many of our largest stores, and in around 100 branches we are Business review increasing the space for e-readers and related accessories.
Waterstones Feel Every Word The Waterstones brand is one of our greatest assets, and through our new Feel Every Word brand communication we are connecting with our customers on the emotion and passion they feel for books.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 17 Turnaround at Waterstones.
Our proposition is first and foremost about books.
They are the heart and soul of what we do.
By focusing on our core strength as a range bookseller, localising our branch offer and revitalising our fantastic brand, we will transform the performance of Waterstones.
Dominic Myers Managing Director Waterstoness Were at home with the range The average Waterstones store carries a range of 30,000 individual titles, and highlighting those books that have the greatest appeal amongst local customers is key to successful bookselling.
Weve given back control of a significant proportion of our promotional space to local branches, utilising the expertise of our booksellers to drive our customers spend and our share of the high street market.
We also sell books in bits and bytes Waterstones has made an excellent start in the fast-growing e-books market, having sold close to 1 million downloads via waterstones.
Through our joint venture with 7digital, we are poised to take our offer to new and exciting levels and to make this available to our customers across multiple platforms and devices.
