REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase business review Homebase continues to be well positioned as a leading home enhancement retailer.
Operational review also now bene ts from the addition of the Capitalising on a more favourable Schreiber brand.
trading environment Among a number of initiatives to improve Market conditions during the year were sales and pro t densities, new ranges and display challenging in most areas of home and general techniques for ooring and tiling will be rolled merchandise.
However, Homebase has delivered out to around 160 stores.
This expansion its strongest sales performance for five years, typically takes space from underperforming as it capitalised on a more favourable trading and low density wallpaper ranges.
Trials will environment in some of its product markets, also test ooring and tiling installation services.
resulting in further market share gains.
In its peak trading period, the Spring 2009 Improvements to price and value weather conditions were signi cantly more Homebase has achieved both an improved favourable than the previous year.
This, together competitive pricing position and customer with excellent product ranging, maintaining high perception of value through a number of operational standards and appropriately driving initiatives.
During the year, there was retail price additional demand through promotional and in ation in Homebases product markets as a clearance activity, led to a strong performance result of product cost pressures driven principally in seasonal-related categories including by adverse currency movements.
Homebase, like horticulture, garden maintenance, and other Argos, targeted a level of customer price in ation outdoor living categories such as furniture that aimed to pass on the impact of cost of goods and barbecues.
in ation in absolute terms.
Homebase had another year of strong Homebase has speci cally matched the growth in big ticket categories, particularly market price on over 1,000 key value indicator kitchens.
While the year bene ted from the and entry price point lines.
Over 400 Bulk Buy withdrawal of some competitors, Homebase deals have also been implemented, with these continued to gain from its own initiatives multi-buy offers often representing marketincluding the previous national rollout of kitchen leading deals.
A new Homebase Value brand of installations, new product ranges and refreshed over 300 products has been launched, covering store displays.
everyday essentials across all categories, with 150 items priced under 5.
Similar to Argos, Range and service development Homebase also now undertakes frequent Homebase continues to develop its point of automated price comparisons on 6,000 lines differentiation as a more style-led offer across against main competitors.
This data is supporting home enhancement.
Strong performances in more effective management of everyday the showroom and homewares areas provide competitive pricing.
Stronger promotional evidence of this successful positioning.
campaigns, capitalising on consumer behaviour Homebase also continues to protect and in the current economic times, have also driven develop its core DIY and decorating offer with improved customer satisfaction scores on sales in these areas broadly at in the year, price and value measures improving by 30%, an improvement on trends in previous years.
as well as successfully driving incremental A new Homebase Value This performance has been supported in part by cash pro t. range of over 300 products a more competitive pricing position and better has been launched.
There have also Multi-channel development been improved ranges and product availability During the year, Homebase achieved its target to complete key DIY tasks, greater prominence of over 30,000 product lines being browseable of advertising and promotions for these areas, via www.
Some 10,000 of these and a launch of related How to guides.
are transactional, double the level a year earlier.
Homebase is looking to replicate the success The Stock Check service was rolled out to all UK of its kitchen installation service.
Bathroom stores early in 2009 and customer use has been installations, previously trialled in 60 stores, growing strongly.
Towards the end of the year, were extended to a further 100 stores in time the Stock Check & Reserve service was rolled for the New Year peak trading period, with out to all stores.
Customer response to these Homebase had another year strong results being achieved to date.
Similarly, developments and other improvements in web of strong growth in big ticket the tted bedroom furniture trial has recently content has resulted in signi cant increases categories, particularly kitchens.
been extended to 100 stores: this product range in website customer satisfaction ratings.
18 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase key performance indicators With mezzanine SALES M NUMBER OF STORES Without mezzanine Sales in the 52 weeks to 27 February A net four stores were opened during 349 345 1,594 2010 increased by 3.9% in total.
the year: there were six openings and 1,572 1,569 331 1,559 1,513 There was strong growth in 310 two closures, taking the portfolio to 297 seasonally-related categories during 349 stores.
Homebases peak trading period, given Spring 2009 benefited from better year-on-year weather 144 165 181 188 190 conditions.
The year saw further good growth in big ticket categories, particularly kitchens.
Sales for the remaining categories overall were marginally up.
Mezzanine stores contain a mezzanineDenition: selling oor which is typically used to Income received for goods and services.
display kitchens, bathrooms and furniture.
Source: Source: 06 07 08 09 10 Audited financial statements.
SALES TRENDS % CHANGE SALES PER SQUARE FOOT Space Like-for-like sales increased by 2.7% Sales per square foot based on total Like-for-like in the year.
Homebase delivered its year-end selling space increased to 3.5 strongest sales performance for five 98.
The reduction in previous years years, as it capitalised on a more was driven by the combination of a 112 109 3.9 favourable trading environment in dif cult DIY market and the impact 2.2 102 0.0 98 some of its product markets.
The of expansion of store mezzanine and 95 1.6 contribution to sales from net new garden centre space which is dilutive 1.2 space was 1.2%.
The trend reversed 3.1 3.6 2.5 6.7 2.7 in the last year aided by the more favourable trading environment.
4.1 1 10.2 10.2 Denition: Annual percentage change in sales.
Like for-like sales are calculated on stores that have been open for more than a year: net new space contribution to sales change is Denition: calculated on stores that have opened and Annual sales divided by year-end total closed during the year.
Source: Source: Audited financial statements measured Audited financial statements measured 06 07 08 09 10 internally.
BENCHMARK OPERATING PROFIT M AND MARGIN % Benchmark operating pro t for the 3.3% 3.4% 2.9% 2.6% 52 weeks to 27 February 2010 was 1.0% 41m, a 26m or 177% increase on last years 15m.
53 51 45 41 Denition: 15 Benchmark operating pro t is dened as operating pro t before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases, exceptional items and costs related to demerger incentive schemes.
FOR ALL CHARTS, 06 AND 07 ARE ON A 52-WEEK PRO FORMA BASIS Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 19 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase business review continued Homebase has been developing its email or speci c product promotions.
Longer term, and web-based promotions to drive further further use will be made of the Nectar traf c and sales through its website.
The email capabilities to develop customer segmentation marketing database has been extended from and more targeted marketing programmes.
0.5 million relevant customers to over 7 million by leveraging the combination of Homebase, Store portfolio development Argos and Nectar information.
These A net four stores were opened during the year: developments have boosted online traf c and there were six openings and two closures, taking Hear more about Homebase helped drive strong growth in transactional the portfolio to 349 stores.
No openings are in our illustrated review, sales during the period.
planned in the next financial year.
In the available online at In the next financial year, the number of approximate 20% of the portfolio that has seen www.
com transactional Homebase products will continue little or no investment for many years, the low reports to be increased, as will the use of Argos and cost re t trial was implemented in a further internet-only products.
Improved search criteria 10 stores during the year.
Sales uplifts across and enhanced store location choices for reserved these re ts have been achieving the targeted goods will be introduced.
A new Get into 15% level, and a further 10 stores are expected Gardening customer community site has been to be re tted in the next financial year.
Small launched, offering advice and tips through numbers of store closures, relocations or videos, forums and blogs.
downsizes will continue as part of our ongoing management of the portfolio.
New loyalty scheme Homebase has successfully transferred its Cost base management in-house Spend & Save loyalty card programme Signi cant cost actions were taken at Homebase over to the Nectar scheme.
Customer feedback in the second half of the previous financial year.
indicated that Nectar was simpler to understand Despite better than expected demand in the year and bene ted from use across multiple retailers just ended, distribution and operating costs were and service providers, while the scheme was also held at the budgeted levels in absolute terms, superior in customer reach with around 17 million without detrimental impact on customer service card holders making it the biggest loyalty card or operational standards.
As a result, total programme in Britain.
The Nectar scheme also operating and distribution costs were reduced provides an enhanced level of customer insight.
by around 50m or 6% in the period, with cost Since launch, measures of card usage and actions more than offsetting volume-related related spend have all exceeded expectations.
growth and underlying in ation.
Six million of the Nectar card holders have Store payroll costs had been reduced from already shopped at Homebase.
the second half of the previous financial year In the next financial year, there will be through the realignment of shift patterns and more Nectar-speci c promotional events, task allocations.
At the end of that year, further and increased use of Nectar to drive category organisational changes were undertaken to improve operational ef ciency and cost productivity.
These included head of ce function roles being reduced by approximately 15% and During the year, Homebase a restructuring of store supervisory positions which reduced store-based full time equivalent achieved its target of over 30,000 roles by approximately 5%.
In addition to lowering costs, these actions have given the product lines being browseable via business a more ef cient and effective structure, while protecting customer service, availability www.
Homebases already strong colleague engagement scores improved of these are transactional, double slightly during the year.
20 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Financial review Homebase has successfully transferred Sales in the 52 weeks to 27 February 2010 increased by 3.9% in total: the contribution to sales from net new space was 1.2%, while its in-house Spend & Save loyalty like-for-like sales increased by 2.7%.
There was strong growth in seasonally-related categories card programme over to the Nectar during Homebases peak trading period, given Spring 2009 bene ted from better year-on-year scheme.
Customer feedback indicated weather conditions.
The year saw further good growth in big ticket categories, particularly that Nectar was simpler to understand kitchens.
and benefi ted from use across multiple The gross margin rate was down by approximately 350 basis points.
Around 175 retailers and service providers.
basis points represented the net impact of product cost pressures mainly attributed to adverse currency movements, which were partially offset by supply chain gains, shipping cost savings and a level of customer price in ation.
Around 150 basis points resulted from increased promotional activity and clearance of previously over-wintered seasonal stocks, which drove successfully both sales and cash gross margin, but which reduced the gross margin rate.
The remaining 25 basis point reduction re ected the sales mix impact given the strong sales of seasonally-related categories as well as big ticket products.
Total operating and distribution costs were reduced by around 50m or 6%.
Total sales 52 WEEKS TO 27 FEBRUARY 2010 28 FEBRUARY 2009 increased by 3.9%, equivalent to a potential cost increase of around 30m, and underlying Sales m 1,571.9 1,513.2 cost in ation was around 1% or 10m.
Depreciation was around 10m lower as Benchmark operating pro t m 41.2 14.9 a result of the impairment of store-related assets in the previous financial year.
There was Benchmark operating margin 2.6% 1.0% therefore around 10% or 80m of underlying cost productivity as a result of successful cost Like-for-like change in sales 2.7% 10.2% reduction and containment initiatives.
New space contribution to sales change 1.2% 6.7% Benchmark operating pro t for the 52 weeks Total sales change 3.9% 3.5% to 27 February 2010 was 41.2m, a 26.3m or 177% increase on the previous financial Gross margin movement Down c. 350bps Up c. 25bps years 14.9m.
Benchmark operating pro t change 177% 67% Number of stores at year-end 349 345 Of which contain a mezzanine oor 190 188 Store selling space at year-end million sq ft 16.1 15.9 Of which garden centre area 3.7 3.6 mezzanine oor area 1.9 1.9 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 21
