We encourage all areas of our business to keep employees state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union informed of the financial and economic factors affecting and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been ourperformance.
We brief employee representatives on followed, subject to any material departures disclosed pan-European issues through a European Employee Forum andexplained in the Group and parent Company financial and the Altadis European Works Council.
statements respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern We regularly review the composition of the Board and the basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Chief Executives Committee from 1 October 2010 the Company will continue in business.
Operating Executive to ensure a continuous provision of themost effective leadership for the Groups development The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate and sustainability.
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Our annual talent review process is designed to identify the the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable most capable successors for critical roles at all levels in our accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company business.
It is a bottom up process initiated at a local level and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial and rolled up through our regions and business units.
This statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply culminates in a final talent review meeting conducted by the with the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Chief Executives Committee from 1 October 2010 the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and Operating Executive for presentation to the Board for review hence taking reasonable steps for the prevention and and challenge.
This is a practice that is embedded across detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the Group and seeks to ensure a continuous talent pipeline.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity To help ensure our employees are aware of the standards of of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom responsible behaviour that they are expected to follow, it is governing the preparation and dissemination of financial anticipated that the roll-out of Code of Conduct training will statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
During the year we will also embed an e-learning system to further support this roll-out.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on Our Code of Conduct forms a key part of our preparations pages 56 and 57, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: for ensuring compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared Pension Fund in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position is not controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the and profit of the Group: and board of which consists of five directors nominated by the the Directors Report includes a fair review of the Company, one director chosen by employees and two by development and performance of the business and the current and deferred pensioners.
This trustee company looks position of the Group, together with a description of the after the assets of the pension fund, which are held principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
separately from those of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
The pension fund assets can Employees only be used in accordance with the funds rules and for no Our employees are key to our ongoing success.
Further details are contained in our employment policies aim to attract the very best people.
Remuneration Report on pages 93 and 94.
Byapplying universally accepted standards for human rights we ensure they are treated with fairness, dignity and respect.
Business Review This is reinforced through offering equal opportunities and A review of the Groups activities and future developments is fair consideration to applications for employment, career included in the Directors Report: Strategy, Performance and development and promotion, without having regard to an Governance sections on pages 6 to 95.
This review fulfils the employees gender, race, religion, age or disability.
These requirements of the Business Review contained in section policies also cover the continuation of employment and 417 of the Act, including the financial performance during appropriate training for employees who become disabled the year on pages 28 to 31, key performance indicators on during their employment.
pages 22 to 24 and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group on pages 25 to 27.
To ensure employees can share in our success we offer competitive pay and benefit packages linked, wherever The purpose of the Annual Report and Accounts is to possible, to performance.
Employees are encouraged to build provide information to the shareholders of Imperial Tobacco a stake in the Company through ownership of shares, with a Group PLC.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents number of employee share plans offered during the year.
and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report and Accounts 75
