Business and financial review Introduction Segmental analysis This business and financial review sets out descriptions Segmental analysis is provided for the groups core of each of the groups business segments, their activities in the Natural Resources, Power & Process markets, strategy and significant factors affecting and Earth & Environmental divisions, as well as for performance for the year ended 31 December 2010. non-core Investments and other activities.
It includes comments on movements in the income Amounts and percentage movements relating to statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement continuing segmental earnings before net financing and on matters that may have an impact on the groups income, tax, goodwill impairment and intangible future financial performance.
The review provides a amortisation EBITA are stated before corporate broader perspective of AMECs businesses to enable costs of 35.9 million 2009: 38.1 million and a more informed judgement to be made of the groups pre-tax exceptional income of 10.7 million financial performance and prospects.
forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, operations and results of AMECs The average number of employees for the years ended businesses are contained in the review.
These 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 stated in statements involve risk and uncertainty because they this review includes agency staff.
relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual performance or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
The review is provided solely to provide additional information to assist in the assessment of the groups strategy and future prospects.
It should not be relied on for any other purpose.
Basis of presentation and discontinued operations The following analysis is based on the results for continuing operations before intangible amortisation, goodwill impairment and pre-tax exceptional items but including joint venture profit before tax.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
The cash flows of discontinued businesses are fully consolidated within AMEC up to the date of sale and the assets and liabilities of discontinued businesses that have not been sold at the year end are shown separately on the consolidated balance sheet.
16 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010
