BUsINess revIeW strategy Key CoMPoNeNts oBJeCtIves F-Plan New-build investment Innovative agreements greater control of retail offer Exploit and develop 1.
Lower gearing ratios in pubs and brewing 3.
Increased ROC sectors Localness Premium ales group overview In each of our trading divisions, our target is to outperform Our results demonstrate the benefits of the successful the market.
In implementing our strategy, our objectives are: implementation of our strategy with growth in revenue and sustainable growth: increased return on capital: and lower gearing earnings: an increase in return on capital compared to 2009 and ratios.
Our focus will remain on providing good service: offering reduced net debt.
value for money: attractive, well-positioned pubs: choice of regional beers: and the careful control of costs.
Revenue was 0.9% up on last year, with improving trends in all three of our trading divisions.
Operating margin is 0.1% up on In 2010 we have made good progress in executing the key last year as a result of tight cost control and the disposal of low operational components of our strategy, providing a strong basis margin leasehold assets.
Underlying operating profit increased by for future development.
0.9% to 148.7 million with underlying profit before tax of 73.5 million 2009: 70.3 million up 4.6% and underlying earnings per Managed pub development share were 10.0 pence per share 2009: 13.4 pence per share.
The performance of the 15 pub-restaurants that opened in 2010 has been very encouraging, with average turnover of 25k per These results have been achieved over a challenging period week well above our target of 20k per week.
The food sales for the sector and demonstrate the competitive advantage of mix in these pubs is around 60%.
Profitability is also ahead of operating high quality pubs able to meet changing consumer target producing an estimated annual return on capital of around demands.
17%, representing an effective acquisition multiple of below 6 EBITDA.
It is our current intention to build 20 similar pubrestaurants in 2011, and 25 pubs each year thereafter.
co. uk 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 PerForMaNCe We have adapted well to market conditions and trends.
We are benefiting from our focused, differentiated strategy as demonstrated by our robust results in 2010 and a strong start to the new financial year.
Our plans are affordable, deliverable and target sustainable growth and strong returns in the future.
ralph Findlay Chief Executive the F-Plan The operational focus which underpins organic development Key Performance Indicators in our managed pubs is based on the F-Plan food, families, females and forty fifty somethings which we designed five The Board of Marstons PLC and the divisional management years ago to recognise longer-term market trends including boards monitor a range of financial and non-financial growth in the eating-out market, the smoking ban and performance indicators, reported on a periodic basis, to demographic trends.
Over five years, the implementation of measure performance against expected targets.
the F-Plan has contributed to food sales mix increasing from Of these, the key performance indicators monitored by 28% to 40% and a 71% increase in meals served each the Board are: year to over 24 million.
2010 2009 tenanted and leased pub development The results from the 104 pubs which have adopted the Retail group Agreement in 2009 and 2010 have been encouraging, with post-conversion operating profit up by approximately 1.
Underlying earnings per share 10.0p 13.4p 1 million compared to last year demonstrating the turnaround 2.
Ratio of net debt to EBITDA 5.7 times 5.7 times in performance achieved in these pubs.
Capital investment in these 104 pubs in 2010 was 6 million: we plan to invest around Marstons Inns and taverns 10 million in a further 200 sites during 2011, with another 300 3.
Like-for-like sales growth 1.7% 0.6 % sites to be converted by 2013.
New site openings 15 4 from all 600 pubs is around 6 million per year from 2013, representing a return on incremental capital expenditure of 20%.
average profit per pub Localness and premium ale strategy contributes to 5.
Marstons Inns and Taverns 132k 120k outperformance in beer 6.
Marstons Pub Company 47k 48k We achieved growth in both turnover and profit in a UK beer market down by around 7%.
Our strategy for beer is differentiated and based upon two key principles: increasing Definitions consumer demand for premium ales, both cask and bottled: and 1.
Underlying earnings per share are basic earnings per providing choice in beers with provenance.
We offer a range share before exceptional items.
of 60 different beers from our Marstons, Bankss, Jennings, 2.
Ratio of net debt to EBITDA is the net debt at the period Ringwood and Wychwood breweries.
end compared to EBITDA before exceptional items.
Like-for-like sales growth is the percentage change in Divisional changes to target best in class revenue for managed pubs owned by the Group for the customer service whole of the current period under review and the prior The development of Retail Agreements has increased the extent comparative period.
to which market insight, best practice and resources are shared 4.
New site openings are the number of managed pubs between our two pub divisions.
As a consequence of the further opened either as new-build pubs or acquired and development of Retail Agreements outlined above we expect refurbished pubs in the period under review.
that this process will continue, and we therefore plan to make 5.
Average profit per pub is operating profit before certain changes to our divisional operations.
exceptional items divided by the average number of pubs in the period.
MarstoNs PLC Annual Report 2010 09 www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 BUsINess revIeW CoNtINUeD From 2 October 2011 Marstons Inns and Taverns will take on the development and management of Retail Agreements.
Key statistic By 2013, Marstons Inns and Taverns will be in a position to Since its launch in March nearly 3 million pints of develop consistent retail offers to consumers directly across fastcask beer have been drunk.
All Hobgoblin draught approximately 1,100 pubs.
With Retail Agreements managed by Marstons Inns and Taverns, fastcask has opened new markets to draught beer, Marstons Pub Company will operate around 1,000 pubs under including sporting events and music festivals.
The focus of management will be to continue to improve customer service and support so that our fastcask is also available in minicask format, making it possible for the first time to have cask-conditioned ale at licensees are better placed to develop their own businesses and home.
to respond to market trends.
During 2010 we combined certain areas of commercial support and developed shared business initiatives between Marstons Pub Company and Marstons Beer Company, recognising that many of the challenges faced by lessees are identical to those of independent operators.
These initiatives contributed to improved performance in both divisions, and we therefore plan to extend this philosophy by bringing the management of our leased pubs and independent pub customers together from 2 October 2011.
Through implementing these plans we aim to have a consistent and clear focus on consumers visiting our managed and Retail Agreement pubs, and on supporting leasehold and independent customers in developing their businesses.
In summary, our objective is to promote best in class service to our consumers and to our customers.
Pictured: Clarendon Hotel, Chapel Ash, Wolverhampton Board The implementation of the plans described above will also be accompanied by changes to the responsibilities of certain Board directors.
From 2 October 2011: It is intended that the Executive Directors of the Company be reduced from five to three: Ralph Findlay, Chief Executive: Alistair Darby currently Managing Director of Marstons Pub Company, who will become Chief Operating Officer: and Andrew Andrea, Finance Director.
co. uk 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 PerForMaNCe Derek Andrew, Managing Director of Marstons Inns and Taverns, will stand down from the Company having given 30 years of excellent service.
However, we are delighted that he will be retained as an external advisor to maintain the momentum of the new site acquisition programme.
Peter Dalzell, who is currently Operations Director, Marstons Pub Company, and previously Operations Director, Marstons Inns and Taverns will succeed Derek as Managing Director of Marstons Inns and Taverns and will report to Alistair Darby.
Stephen Oliver, Managing Director of Marstons Beer Company, will also be responsible for Marstons Pub Company and will report to Alistair Darby as Managing Director of both businesses.
Local Business On 1 September 2010 Robin Rowland, Chief Executive of solutions YO!
Sushi joined the Company as a Non-executive Director: his extensive background in food retailing is welcome as we Our Free Trade customers benefit from an unrivalled continue to develop the F-Plan.
We win and retain their loyalty through business building solutions, including deals on Dividend non-drink items which help keep costs down.
It is this The proposed final dividend of 3.70 pence per share is the compelling combination that differentiates us from our same as last year and will give a total dividend for the period of competitors and it is why we have been voted Cask Ale 5.80 pence per share, compared to 7.14 pence per share in the 1 Supplier of the Year.
With sales teams based at all five breweries we really are Current trading able to deliver that local experience backed up by all the We have seen an encouraging start to the year.
In Marstons Inns benefits of trading with a business the size of Marstons.
and Taverns, like-for-like sales increased by 3.0% in the eight weeks ended 27 November, with food sales growth of 5.8% and Since deciding to trade with Marstons I have not been wet sales improving by 1.7%.
In Marstons Pub Company, in the disappointed.
Their range of beers is fantastic and the eight weeks to 27 November, profits were down by an estimated costs savings and business building ideas implemented by 1.5% compared to last year, and profit per pub was in line with my representative have had a real positive impact on my last year.
In Marstons Beer Company, own-brewed volume is profits.
ahead of last year and in line with our expectations.
Peter Humphrey, landlord Blacksmiths arms, Harworth 1 MA Suppliers Awards 2010 MarstoNs PLC Annual Report 2010 11 www.
