Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with monitoring the level and structure of remuneration Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
It also meets of Group senior management and evaluating the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the management performance.
Financial Services Authority and describes how the The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is Board has applied the principles of good governance determined by the Board as a whole.
No Director as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate participates in the determination of his own Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council remuneration.
in June 2006 the Combined Code relating to directors remuneration.
Company policy on Directors pay and bonuses The Companys policy is to ensure that Directors During the year under review, the Company complied are fairly rewarded with regard to responsibilities with the detailed code provisions set out in Section B undertaken, and considers comparable pay levels of the Combined Code except as follows: in the United Kingdom and in Chile.
Corporate and as explained on page 71, performance related pay individual performance is taken into account in setting measures did not apply to the Chairman, who was the pay level for the Chairman as an Executive the only Executive Director provision B.
Director, and this is reviewed on an annual basis to The Companies Act 1985 requires the auditors to ensure it remains in line with companies of a similar report to the Companys members on certain parts of size and complexity.
Remuneration levels for this report and to state whether in their opinion those Non-Executive Directors are based on comparable parts have been properly prepared in accordance with levels for companies of a similar size and complexity, the Companies Act 1985.
The report has therefore and take into account specific responsibilities been divided into separate sections for unaudited undertaken.
Remuneration includes fees paid for and audited information.
non-executive directorships of subsidiary companies within the Group.
Unaudited Information The Board does not consider it appropriate to make Remuneration Committee regular performance-related pay awards such as Membership bonuses to the only Executive Director, Mr. J-P Luksic, The Remuneration Committee currently comprises given his role as Chairman of the Board and his Mr. G S Menendez Chairman, Mr. C H Bailey and interest in the Companys shares both directly and Mr. D E Yarur, all of whom are considered by the as a member of the Luksic family.
Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Group has paid Mr. R F Jara for advisory services Responsibilities to the Group.
The Board has taken these payments The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee into account in determining his fees as a are fully set out in its Terms of Reference which are Non-Executive Director.
available from the Companys registered office and No Directors currently receive pension contributions.
may be viewed on the Companys website www.
The Committee is responsible for setting remuneration policy and for reviewing the remuneration of any Executive Directors and, where appropriate, it consults the Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic.
The Committee did not make use of external consultants to provide advice on Directors remuneration during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 72 REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT All Non-Executive Directors have letters of Non-Executive Directors fees appointment with the Company, for an initial period of The fees payable to Non-Executive Directors were as three years from the date of their appointment, subject follows: to reappointment at the AGM.
These letters require 2007 2006 GBP 000 US$000 GBP 000 US$000 the Non-Executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities.
Base fee 50 100 36 66 The appointments are terminable by either party on Audit committee one months notice.
The letters of appointment are chairman 10 20 10 18 available for inspection at the Companys registered Audit committee office during normal business hours and at the AGM member 510 59 for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Remuneration The service contacts and letters of appointment do not committee chairman 816 713 provide for any compensation for loss of office beyond Remuneration payments in lieu of notice.
committee member 510 47 Share options and long-term incentive Nomination schemes committee chairman 510 36 No arrangements exist to enable Directors to acquire Nomination benefits through the acquisition of shares in the committee member 24 24 Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, to The fees are set and paid in sterling.
The fees have benefit through profit-related pay or share option been translated into US dollars at the average schemes or to participate in any long-term incentive exchange rates for the relevant year for the purpose schemes.
In addition to the above amounts, Non-Executive Directors also receive fees in their Directors interests capacity as Non-Executive Directors of the principal The Directors interests in the shares of the Company operating subsidiary companies within the Group.
at the beginning and end of the year were as follows: These additional fees are included within the amounts Ordinary shares of 5p each attributable to the Non-Executive Directors within the 31 December 1 January 2007 2007 table of Directors remuneration on page 75.
1 J-P Luksic 41,963,110 41,963,110 Service contracts and letters of appointment C H Bailey 32,000 32,000 Mr. J-P Luksic has a contract for services with each 1 Mr. J-P Luksics interest relates to shares held by Aureberg of the Antofagasta Railway Company plc and with Establishment, an entity which he controls.
Both contracts for services can be The Directors had no interests in the shares of the terminated by either party on one months notice.
Company during the year other than the interests in There is also a contract between Antofagasta Minerals the table set out above.
No Director had any material S. A. and Asesoras Ramn F Jara EIRL for the interest in any other contract with the Company or its provision of advisory services by Mr. R F Jara which subsidiary undertakings during the year other than in can also be terminated on one months notice.
The the ordinary course of business.
amounts payable under these contracts for services No changes took place in the interests of the Directors are reviewed periodically in line with the Companys between 31 December 2007 and the date of this policy on Directors pay.
and 2007 have been included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 75.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 73 Remuneration Report continued Total shareholder return is calculated to show a Performance graph theoretical growth in the value of a shareholding over a The following graph shows the Companys specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested performance compared to the performance of the to purchase additional shares at the closing price FTSE All Share Index over a five-year period, measured applicable on the ex-dividend date.
Total shareholder by total shareholder return as defined below.
The return for the FTSE All-Share Index is calculated by FTSE All Share Index has been selected as an aggregating the returns of all individual constituents appropriate benchmark as it is the most broadly based of the FTSE at the end of the five-year period.
index to which the Company belongs and which relates to the London Stock Exchange, the market where the Companys ordinary shares are traded.
1 Total Shareholder Return Antofagasta plc vs FTSE All Share Index Total Return Basis Index 1 January 2003 100 700% Antofagasta plc 600% FTSE All-Share Index 500% 400% 300% 200% 100% 0% Jan 03 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Source Datastream.
1 Total Shareholder Return represents share price growth plus dividends reinvested over the period.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 74 REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT from the annual review by the Remuneration Audited Information Committee carried out at the beginning of 2007 to Directors remuneration ensure that pay levels remain in line with companies The remuneration of the Directors in the year is set out of a similar size and complexity.
The annual review for below in US dollars.
Amounts paid in sterling or Chilean 2008 which has been carried out by the Remuneration pesos have been translated at average rates for the Committee in early 2008 has concluded that no further relevant year, which are set out in Note 36 to the increase in the rate of fees will be made in 2008. financial statements.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Mr. Luksic of US$2,900,000 2006 US$1,784,000.
The benefits expense represents the provision of car usage to Mr. J-P Luksic.
2 During 2007, remuneration of US$434,000 2006 US$331,000 for the provision of services by Mr. R F Jara was paid to Asesoras Ramn F Jara EIRL.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Mr. Jara of US$683,000 2006 US$536,000.
3 Details of fees paid to Ingeniera y Servicios Computacionales Geovectra S. A. Geovectra, a company controlled by Mr. J W Ambrus, are disclosed in Note 37 to the financial statements.
These payments were on normal arms length commercial terms for services performed by employees of Geovectra, and hence have not been included in Mr. Ambrus fees as a Director in the table above.
4 Mr. W M Hayes was appointed as a Director on 29 September 2006.
Fees paid during 2006 therefore reflected the period since his appointment.
5 Mr. P J Adeane retired from the Board on 29 September 2006.
Fees paid during 2006 reflected the period during which he was a Non-Executive Director until his retirement from the Board.
Following retirement, Mr. Adeane has continued to serve the Board as a Senior Advisor under a contract for services at the rate of 10,000 per annum.
This contract can be terminated on one months notice.
Mr. Adeane was paid 10,000 approximately US$20,000 under this contract for services during 2007 2006 2,500: approximately US$4,600, which has not been included in his fees as a Director in the table above.
Approved on behalf of the Board G S Menendez Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10 March 2008 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 75
