Remuneration Report Introduction The committee met three times during Remuneration policy for executive This report has been prepared in the year in question.
directors and senior executives accordance with the Companies In setting remuneration levels of the The committees policy is designed to Act 1985 as amended by the Directors executive directors the committee had ensure that the main elements of the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 regard to the findings of a remuneration remuneration package attract, motivate the regulations.
This report also meets survey and research issued generally and retain executive directors and senior the relevant requirements of the listing by Deloitte & Touche LLP, the companys executives by offering them competitive rules of the Financial Services Authority auditors, who have also provided audit remuneration packages, which are and describes how the board have applied and tax services to the group.
Addleshaw prudently constructed and linked to the principles of good governance relating Goddard Solicitors provide legal advice strengthen individual and corporate to directors remuneration.
in relation to the share incentive performance targets.
The normal This report will be put to an advisory vote arrangements and have also provided remuneration package for executive of the companys shareholders at the general legal advice to the group.
The directors comprises basic salary, an annual general meeting on 17 July 2007. committee received advice concerning annual performance-related bonus The auditors are required to report on the the Chief Executives remuneration and including a deferred element with a audited section of this report and to state specifically his pension arrangements from matching share award subject to a further whether, in their opinion, that part of the Mercer Human Resources Limited.
Deloitte performance condition, a long-term report has been properly prepared in & Touche LLP and Addleshaw Goddard incentive program, a pension and other accordance with the Companies Act are general advisers to the company and benefits in kind including a company 1985 as amended by the regulations.
were not specifically appointed by the car allowance and medical insurance.
The report is therefore divided into committee.
Mercer Human Resource The committee regularly reviews the separate sections for audited and Consulting Limited was appointed by structure of the executive package, unaudited information.
In determining executive including the balance between fixed directors remuneration for the year, the and variable pay to ensure that the Unaudited information: committee consulted Alan White, the chief remuneration remains competitive and executive.
No director played a part in any Remuneration committee challenging.
The policy will continue to discussion about his own remuneration.
During the financial year, the remuneration apply for the current financial year.
The committee of the board the committee The board have reviewed the groups committee will review the policy on an comprised Ivan Fallon chairman, Lord compliance with the Combined Code annual basis and recommend changes Stone of Blackheath and John McGuire, 2003 the Code on remuneration related as and when appropriate.
all of whom are non executive and matters.
It is the opinion of the board that A review of the bonus structure and the considered by the company to be the group complied with the remuneration use of long-term share based incentives independent.
The committee members related aspects of the Code during the was undertaken in the year under review.
have no personal financial interest other year: however, the following exception The charts below demonstrate the balance than as shareholders in matters to be should be noted: between fixed and variable performance decided, no potential conflicts of interest the annual bonus plan for 2005 06 based pay for each executive director: arising from cross-directorships and no provided for company expensed day-to-day involvement in running the matching shares at the end of two Basic salary business.
The committee has formal years i. e. maturing in July 2008 and the When determining the salary of the written terms of reference which are provision of these matching shares was executive directors the committee has available for shareholders to inspect not subject to additional performance taken into consideration the levels of base at the registered office of the company conditions see page 30.
This policy salary for similar positions with comparable and on the corporate website.
Analysis of Performance vs Non Performance element of Remuneration Package Fixed Pay Variable Performance Related Pay 30% 33% 70% 67% Alan White Dean Moore N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 29 Remuneration Report status, responsibility and skills in targets and the achievement of personal of any additional performance competitor organisations of broadly similar objectives.
These targets are reviewed and requirements.
It was the opinion of the size and complexity, in particular those agreed by the committee at the beginning committee that the difficulty in satisfying existing in the home shopping and retail of each financial year to ensure that they the underlying performance requirements market sectors: the performance of the are appropriate to the current market to earn the annual bonus was individual executive director: the individual conditions, the objectives of the company commensurate with the potential value executive directors experience and and that they continue to remain stretching of the maximum immediate and deferred responsibilities: and the pay and conditions and challenging.
Payments under the bonus payable.
However, since 2006 annual bonus schemes consist of an the grant of matching shares has been throughout the group.
Salaries and immediate cash element, a deferred made subject to an additional performance conditions are reviewed on an annual basis.
element in shares net of tax and a 1:1 requirement for all future grants.
The Annual performance-related bonus matching share element based on the prematching shares will not be issued unless Each executive director and senior tax value of the bonus used to acquire the the growth in earnings per share is equal executive participates in one of a number deferred shares.
Matching shares are to or greater than the growth of the retail of annual performance-related bonus released two years from their date of price index over the deferral period.
Each scheme is designed to award provided the executive retains his The levels of bonus earned for this stretch the performance of the executive deferred shares and remains in employment.
year are set out in the following table: and is linked to the growth in annual Previously the provision of the matching profit, the achievement of other business shares was not subject to the satisfaction Name Alan White Dean Moore 2006 07 Bonus & Deferred Shares 417,100 217,728 2006 07 Matching Share Award 104,275 54,432 Total 2006 07 Bonus & Matching Share Award as a %age of Salary 120% 113% The performance targets used for 2006 07 plan and one of the executive share option market research indicated that TSR is a were based on a combination of profit, schemes in any one year, the committee more appropriate and common measure the delivery of customer retention initiatives will carefully assess the expected value for long-term incentive arrangements and the achievement of personal of the combined total award, particularly within FTSE 250 companies, objectives.
The performance targets for if it exceeds the maximum value possible a TSR performance condition is more 2007 08 have recently been reviewed and under either scheme individually.
In closely aligned with shareholder interests will be based upon a combination of profit, addition, it is the committees policy only than EPS Growth, absolute growth in numbers of customers to grant combined grants where there are a TSR performance condition more and the achievement of personal some or all of the following circumstances: closely evaluates company performance objectives.
The maximum potential to minimise the P&L cost to the company against a basket of comparator bonus payable to an executive director and dilutive cost for shareholders for a companies in the same sector, for 2006 07 was 100% of basic salary given share commitment to an executive: of which, if achieved, 75% will be a TSR performance condition is more where different performance conditions immediately payable in cash and 25% easily understood and measurable by apply to awards and options: or will be deferred.
It has been agreed to eligible executives and is considered to keep these levels for 2007 08. on initial recruitment of a senior executive be a suitably challenging measure in the current retail sector trading environment.
Share incentives For the year under review no combined It is the policy of the committee that awards were made.
In respect of share executive directors and senior executives awards the performance condition is generally receive an annual award under based upon Total Shareholder Return either the long-term incentive plan or one TSR.
TSR as a performance condition of the companys executive share option is considered appropriate for the following schemes.
Before allowing any individual to reasons: participate in both the long-term incentive 30 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 Remuneration Report The committee determines whether the mean that no award will vest, a 10% to For share option schemes a performance TSR performance conditions for share 50% award will vest in the third quartile condition of growth in EPS applies awards and options are satisfied by depending on rank, a 60% to 95% award see below.
ranking the company over a 3 year will vest in the second quartile depending Long-term incentive share plan performance period measured from on rank and a 100% award will vest in the Executive directors and certain senior the date of grant against a matrix upper quartile regardless of rank.
executives are eligible to participate in of comparator companies currently For 2005 06 awards and onwards the the groups long-term incentive share plan.
comprising Alexon, Blacks Leisure, remuneration committee determined that if The plan provides appropriate incentives Instore, DSG International, Findel, TSR is below the median ranking company to reward sustained success through French Connection, Home Retail Group, there will be no entitlement to any of the the achievement of challenging business Homestyle, JJB Sports, Kesa Electrical, award.
For median performance the targets, thereby better aligning the Laura Ashley, Marks & Spencer, Moss Bros entitlement will be 50% of the maximum interests of shareholders and executives.
Group, Mothercare, Next and Woolworths.
award rising pro rata in the second quartile The committee determines which to 90% depending on rank.
A 100% award companies are to be added or removed will vest upon the company ranking in the from the comparator group.
For 2004 05 upper quartile regardless of rank.
awards a ranking in the lower quartile will Long-term Incentive Share Plan Description Maximum Annual Award %age Salary 150% Nature of Right To receive a fixed number of shares subject to the satisfaction of conditions Performance Period Three years Performance Requirements Total Shareholder Return subject to decile ranking of company against comparator group of companies calculated over a performance period of 3 years Additional Features None Executive share option schemes The rationale for executives participating in the option schemes is the same as for their participation in the LTIP.
Term Description Schemes Inland Revenue Approved Option Scheme and the 2000 Unapproved Option Scheme Aggregate under both Approved and Unapproved Schemes Maximum Annual Award 200% of remuneration salary, bonus and commission %age Remuneration Normal maximum 100% of remuneration Nature of Right A right to purchase a fixed number of shares at the market price on the date of grant subject to the satisfaction of conditions Performance Period Three years from the date of grant Performance requirements Growth in EPS equal to, or greater than, the growth of the Retail Price Index RPI 9.2% equivalent to 3% p. a. compound growth over the three year performance period N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 31 Remuneration Report All employee share schemes retirement age of 60, a pension accrual a car and fuel allowance: and The group operates an Inland Revenue rate based on 1 40th of pensionable salary medical insurance approved savings related share option to give a maximum pension of 2 3 scheme for the benefit of group pensionable salary at normal retirement Directors contracts employees, provided they have completed date, including retained benefits and a It is the companys policy that executive at least six months service.
Eligible lump sum death benefit of four times directors should have contracts with an employees, including executive directors pensionable salary.
No part of a directors indefinite term providing for a maximum and senior executives, may be granted pensionable salary includes remuneration of 12 months notice.
options over the companys shares at a other than basic pay.
The policy, on termination, is that the discount of up to 20% to the prevailing All members of the fund currently pay company does not make payments market price at the time of grant of the contributions at the rate of 8% of beyond its contractual obligations.
option, which subject to certain pensionable salary.
The group bears the In addition, executive directors are conditions can be exercised after either cost of providing the lump sum death expected to mitigate their loss or, three or five years.
benefit and the balance of contributions within existing contractual constraints, Over 500 of eligible group employees necessary to finance fund benefits.
In addition, currently participate in the scheme.
The fund is now closed to new entrants.
the committee ensures that there are An all-employee share ownership plan Eligible employees who would otherwise no unjustified payments for failure.
now known as a share incentive plan was have been entitled to join the fund are None of the executive directors contracts established and approved by shareholders now able to join a new defined contribution provide for liquidated damages.
No invitations or awards have pension scheme.
are no special provisions contained in yet been made under this plan.
any of the executive directors contracts Dean Moore is a member of the defined that provide for longer periods of notice contribution scheme.
Members of this Pension on a change of control of the company.
scheme pay contributions at the rate of The group operates a number of pension Further, there are no special provisions 6% of pensionable salary.
The company schemes for the benefit of all eligible providing for additional compensation contributes 6% of Dean Moores annual employees.
Alan White is a member of the on an executive directors cessation salary into the defined contribution scheme.
N Brown Group Pension Fund the fund, of employment with the company.
which is an Inland Revenue approved Benefits in kind defined benefit scheme.
Currently this Executive directors receive the following scheme provides for him a normal additional benefits: Potential Potential Potential termination payment upon payment in event Name payment company takeover of liquidation Alan White 12 months salary Nil Nil Dean Moore 12 months salary Nil Nil 32 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 Remuneration Report Non executive directors are retained on arrangements fall due for renewal it is subject to successful re-election upon letters of appointment, normally providing the companys intention to move to an retirement by rotation as required by the for a renewable fixed term of 3 years.
arrangement whereby non executive companys articles of association.
These are subject to early termination directors will be appointed for an indefinite The details of directors contracts are provisions in certain circumstances term, terminable upon six months notice.
summarised below: e. g. failure to be re-appointed upon All non executive appointments are subject election at the companys AGM without to a notice period of six months and compensation.
As and when these Name Status Date of Unexpired Notice contract letter term period Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE non executive 16 May 2007 n a 6 months Alan White executive 10 August 2002 n a 12 months Dean Moore executive 20 December 2004 n a 12 months Nigel Alliance OBE non executive 16 May 2007 n a 6 months Ivan Fallon non executive 19 May 2005 2 months 6 months Lord Stone of Blackheath non executive 19 May 2005 5 months 6 months John McGuire non executive 16 May 2007 1 year 6 months Non executive directors 17,000 35,000 per annum.
Further fees Performance graph All non executive directors have specific are payable for additional work performed The graph shows the companys 5 year terms of engagement and their in respect of the chairmanship of the performance, measured by total shareholder remuneration is determined by the board remuneration and audit committees.
return TSR, compared with the within the limits set by the articles of Non executive directors cannot participate performance of the FTSE Mid-250 Index, association and based on independent in any of the companys share incentive also measured by TSR.
The company is a surveys of fees paid to non executive schemes or performance based plans and member of this index and accordingly it is directors of similar companies.
are not eligible to join the companys felt to be the most appropriate comparator pension scheme.
The basic fee paid to each non executive director in the year was within the range Total Shareholder Return Performance: N Brown vs FTSE 250 250 FTSE Mid-250 Index N Brown Group plc 200 150 100 50 0 Feb Feb Feb Feb Feb Feb 02 03 04 05 06 07 Financial Year Source: Datastream N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 33 Total Return rebased to 100 Remuneration Report Audited information: Directors remuneration and interests Emoluments The individual elements of directors emoluments for the year are as follows: Performance- 2007 2006 Salaries Taxable related total total 1 2 fees benefits bonuses 000 000 Executive salaries Alan White 435 1 417 853 758 Dean Moore 240 1 218 459 390 Non executive fees Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 17 17 17 Jim Martin left 21 July 2005 15 Nigel Alliance OBE 18 18 18 Ivan Fallon 36 36 36 Lord Stone of Blackheath 33 33 33 John McGuire 33 33 33 812 2 635 1,449 1,300 1.
Taxable benefits comprise the provision of private medical expenses cover.
Included in the performance-related bonus awards stated above are 104,275 for Alan White and 54,432 for Dean Moore which after deduction of income tax are shortly due to be transferred to the deferred annual bonus scheme referred to above.
34 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 Remuneration Report Pensions Details of directors accrued pension entitlements under the groups defined benefit schemes are as follows: Transfer Transfer value of Increase value Accrued Increase Accrued Transfer accrued in transfer of accrued pension at during pension at value of pension at value during pension at 1 2 1 2,3, 4 3 3,4, 5 3 25 Feb 2006 year 24 Feb 2007 increase 25 Feb 2006 year 24 Feb 2007 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Alan White 129 23 157 259 1,658 163 1,821 1.
Pension entitlements shown are those that would be paid annually on retirement, based on service to the end of the year or leaving date if earlier.
Increase stated net of inflation.
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note 11.
Stated after deduction of members contributions.
The change in the transfer value includes the effects of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company and directors, such as gilt yield changes.
Members of the scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
Contributions paid by the company into the groups defined contribution scheme during the year in respect of Dean Moore amounted to 13,133 2006, 11,933.
Exercise subject to achievement of minimum 3% p. a. average annual growth in the groups earnings per share over and above that of the Retail Price Index, measured over the three year period commencing with the year in which the option was granted.
The market price of the companys shares at 24 February 2007 was 334.5p 2006, 201.5p and the range during the year was 199p to 335p.
Exercise is subject to performance condition geared to Total Shareholder Return.
36 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 Remuneration Report Interests Directors interests in shares of the company are as follows: At 24 Feb At 25 Feb 2007 2006 Ordinary Ordinary shares shares of 11 1 19p each of 10p each Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 86,525,232 95,644,204 Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE non beneficial 8,512,737 9,408,816 Alan White 211,742 198,107 Dean Moore 21,335 10,492 Nigel Alliance OBE 31,489,268 34,803,928 Ivan Fallon Lord Stone of Blackheath 6,333 10,000 John McGuire 9,047 10,000 Together with other employees and former employees of the group, the executive directors are potential beneficiaries of the following trusts, and as such are deemed to have a beneficial interest in the following shares of the company held by these trusts: At 24 Feb At 25 Feb 2007 2006 N Brown Group plc No.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trust 16,195 333,055 There have been no changes in the above interests of the directors between the year end and 30 April 2007.
Approval This report was approved by the board of directors on 25 May 2007 and signed on its behalf by: Ivan Fallon Chairman of the remuneration committee N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 37
