Directors remuneration report 1 Introduction 3 Advisers to the remuneration committee The Board has prepared this report in accordance with the requirements Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Ltd, who are the appointed scheme of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The report also meets Actuary to the principal Northern Foods UK pension schemes, the relevant requirements of the Revised Combined Code on Corporate continued to provide advice to the committee on matters of Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined remuneration policy during the year.
Code and is prepared for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007.
The committee also retained A M Judes as its independent adviser This report to shareholders sets out the remuneration policy and throughout 2006.
For the period from 1 January 2006 to 5 July 2006, explains the policy under which the executive and non-executive he was retained under a letter of engagement between the committee directors and management team were remunerated for the year and his then employer, Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow.
It also provides details of the salary, incentives, committee appointed A M Judes through his own consultancy, share and pension interests of all the directors for the year and, Strategic Remuneration.
The committee retained DLA Piper UK LLP subject to ongoing review by the remuneration committee, outlines as solicitors to advise on matters relating to directors contracts and remuneration policy for the forthcoming and subsequent years.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual who have provided no other services to the company during the year, general meeting of the company.
were retained to provide advice relating to the development of its long term incentive arrangements.
The committee appointed Pinsent The auditors are required to report to the companys members Masons to design a new Savings-related share option scheme.
on the audited element of the Directors remuneration report and The committee identified no conflict in the nature of the services to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been provided by its advisers.
The terms of business of Hewitt Bacon & properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Woodrow, Strategic Remuneration, DLA Piper UK LLP, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, and Pinsent Masons are available from the Unaudited information company secretary.
The information in this following section of the remuneration report has not been audited by the companys external auditors.
In determining executive directors remuneration for the year, and in considering proposals for the future, the committee consulted 2 Remuneration committee A J Hobson, Chairman: P A ODriscoll, Chief Executive until her The remuneration committee is a committee of the Board and resignation from the Board on 1 February 2007: and S Barden, the members, all of whom are independent, during the year were who was appointed as Chief Executive on 5 February 2007.
O G Ni-Chionna Chair, R J S Bell, D T Nish, C Dyer resigned 6 September 2006 and A K Illsley appointed 2 October 2006.
Details of attendance 4 Remuneration policy for the committee are provided in the Corporate governance report on To deliver its objective of creating real increases in shareholder value page 35.
At the invitation of the chair of the committee, the chief executive relative to its peers, the company needs to attract and retain the and corporate services director attend committee meetings to provide most capable and committed people and create the right employment background and context on matters relating to executive remuneration.
conditions and reward opportunities for them.
The corporate services director attended the committee meetings until he left the company in March 2007: S Brooker, Group HR Director, now The companys remuneration policy is designed to support the attends the committees meetings.
A J Hobson, Chairman of the Board, recruitment, motivation and retention of such high calibre employees.
is not a member but attends the committee by invitation.
The secretary Remuneration is considered within the context of the sector of which to the committee is C Williams, Company Secretary.
the company is a part, and the wider FTSE 350 community where the company competes for talent.
The sector includes companies The role of the remuneration committee is to approve, implement and operating as fast moving consumer goods FMCG companies.
keep under review the remuneration policy and practice of the group, and specifically to: The committee reviewed the companys remuneration policy in 2004 05.
This review, detailed in the Annual report for that year, agree with the Board the framework and the value of the remuneration set the objectives such that the remuneration of executive directors of the chairman, executive directors and senior managers and senior executives should be directly linked to the delivery agree the terms of the executive directors and company secretarys of strategic objectives which are closely aligned with the interests service contracts and remuneration of shareholders.
The policy includes the introduction of differentiated determine the nature and scale of short and long term rewards, according to performance, based on the introduction of performance incentive arrangements that encourage enhanced rigorous individual performance measures against the delivery of these performance and reward individuals in a fair and reasonable strategic objectives.
This practice of linking pay to performance was manner for their contribution to the success of the group.
implemented for the first time in 2005 06 and continued in 2006 07.
In spring 2007, the committee again reviewed elements of its strategy In undertaking this role, the committee considers remuneration and, following consultation with major shareholders, together with the policy and rewards across the company and not just at Board level.
ABI and NAPF, is submitting to shareholders for approval a new long The committee has been formally delegated the authority, by the term incentive arrangement, a performance share plan.
The proposals Board, to establish policy in respect of all terms of employment for are set out below and in Appendix 1 to the Notice of meeting.
No director plays a part in any discussion about his or her remuneration.
The policy continues to be to reward employees at the relevant mid-market level for on target performance, whilst delivering The Board believes that a properly constituted remuneration committee competitive rewards for outstanding performers, with a package is essential in establishing a system of remuneration which clearly designed to align their interests with those of shareholders.
In the aligns the interests of executive directors and senior managers case of senior executives, this includes a significant proportion of total with those of shareholders, and links incentives to improvements remuneration being dependent upon individual and group performance.
in the absolute performance and relative competitiveness of the As salaries were determined prior to Northern Foods restructuring, company.
The committees terms of reference are published on the companys market dimensions have changed and consequently, the companys website.
the committee is reviewing the salary structure.
The policy for directors is described in more detail below.
40 Directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc 5 Remuneration policy for non-executive directors The four main components of the ongoing remuneration package Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three for executive directors and senior management in 2007 08 are: years with the expectation that, subject to satisfactory performance, they will be invited to serve a second and third three year term.
basic annual salary, targeted at market median, but it is recognised that it may be necessary to pay above this to attract sufficiently The dates of the chairmans and current non-executive directors high calibre executives letters of engagement, the dates on which their appointment took an annual incentive plan, based upon the delivery of annual effect and the current expiry dates are as follows: operating plans for the group and individual strategic objectives described in performance contracts Date of Effective date Expiry date participation in long term incentive plans based upon the commencement of current term of current term performance of the group and the individual R J S Bell 1 Sep 05 1 Sept 05 31 Aug 08 pension and other benefits.
A J Hobson 28 May 02 28 May 05 27 May 08 A K Illsley 2 Oct 06 2 Oct 06 1 Oct 09 The balance of the fixed and variable pay at current value for 2007 08, O G Ni-Chionna 28 May 02 28 May 05 27 May 08 exclusive of pension benefits and assuming that the new Performance D T Nish 1 Jul 05 1 Jul 05 30 Jun 08 share plan PSP is approved by shareholders, is illustrated below for the two executive directors.
The table is a theoretical model and The appointments of the chairman and the non-executive directors assumes that on target group performance is achieved for short term may be terminated by the company on six months notice and by incentives and the directors individual performance, and that long the chairman and the non-executive directors on three months notice.
term incentives are valued at an expected value of 55% of the initial No compensation is payable by the company on termination of an value at the time of grant.
It also ignores the value of S Bardens appointment with due notice.
matching shares as that was a one off arrangement negotiated on his promotion.
Fees for the non-executive directors are reviewed regularly on the recommendation of the executive directors and are then subject to Basic salary Annual bonus Long term as a proportion as a proportion incentives as a approval by the Board.
Fees are set with regard to a range of external of target of target proportion of target information for equivalent companies.
There are no other emoluments for Performance remuneration % remuneration % remuneration % non-executive directors, except where the company meets authorised S Barden On target 41.0 25.0 34.0 expenses incurred on the companys activities.
They are not eligible Maximum 28.5 28.5 43.0 for pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of J K Maiden On target 41.0 25.0 34.0 the companys annual or long term incentive schemes.
Fees were last Maximum 28.5 28.5 43.0 increased as of 1 October 2005.
The next assessment in June 2007 will determine the fees to be paid.
6.1 Salary Salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually, taking into account 6 Remuneration policy for executive directors information from independent sources for comparable roles in the The remuneration committee aims to ensure that the companys industry and in other selected quoted companies.
Reviews also reflect executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions the individuals responsibilities, performance and development, and the to the groups performance.
The committees policy is to offer groups performance.
Basic salary is the only pensionable remuneration.
differentiated remuneration packages, dependent upon performance, which are capable of attracting, retaining and motivating executive The executive directors salaries effective as at 1 April 2007 are: directors of high calibre, particularly during a time of change.
The approach is designed to ensure that the company is managed effectively Basic salary as at 1 April 2007 to the benefit of shareholders and will create real increases in S Barden 450,000 shareholder value.
J KMaiden 317,000 The committee also takes account of, and seeks to align this remuneration For J K Maiden, this represents an increase of 3% reflecting inflation.
with, management remuneration throughout Northern Foods.
The For S Barden the increase is higher reflecting the change in his role committee continues to aim for a structured and balanced remuneration and is considered to be no higher than a market median level for his package by looking at each element of reward, as well as the package new role and was set at a lower level than that of his predecessor.
The committee believes that a significant proportion of the total remuneration of a director should be performance related.
Accordingly, a rigorous approach has been adopted to the assessment of individual performance, facilitating differentiation in awards whereby significant emphasis is placed upon the individuals contribution to the groups overall performance.
This is to ensure that the remuneration package for executive directors is aligned closely with shareholder interests.
Northern Foods plc Directors remuneration report 41 Directors remuneration report continued 6.2 Annual incentive plan Previously, long term incentives have been provided to executive The remuneration committee believes that achieving annual directors in the form of share options and performance shares.
While performance targets is a high priority for the executive directors.
the committee acknowledges that option schemes can be successful Incentive targets for executive directors are set each year by the in certain circumstances, as part of the companys regular ongoing committee to take account of current business plans.
incentive arrangements they are currently considered inappropriate.
The committee also notes that option schemes are now falling out The annual incentive plan drives differentiation in the level of award of favour in the market generally for many reasons for example, based upon the individuals contribution to group performance.
The accounting and share usage inefficiencies and the lack of a clear link target incentive for an executive director is 60% of basic salary for on between performance and reward.
At the same time, the companys target performance.
In the case of exceptional individual performance existing Long term incentive plan LTIP, which was introduced in and group results significantly above expectations, the incentive July 1997, will shortly expire and it is therefore proposed, subject payment increases up to a maximum of 100% of basic salary.
to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual general meeting, that the LTIP will be replaced with the PSP in which executive directors, Under the annual incentive plan, 80% of annual bonus opportunity other senior executives and senior managers of up to approximately is linked to specific financial targets, including targets for profit from 80 participants in total will participate.
This will be the only long term operations and profit before tax, both measured before restructuring incentive used on an annual basis.
The executive share option plan items.
The other 20% is directly related to the committees will be retained for use in exceptional circumstances, for example, assessment of the directors individual performance against their on recruitment.
A summary of the rationale behind the introduction personal performance contract, set at the start of the financial year, of the PSP is set out in 6.3.
3, with full details of its principal terms which contains six individual performance targets.
These are contained in the Notice of meeting.
considered appropriately stretching by the committee.
1 Executive share option plan 2004 Of any annual incentive earned in 2006 07, 20% will be paid as Participation in the companys executive share option plan is at the deferred shares through the companys Share bonus plan.
Shares discretion of the committee.
The plan comprises an Inland Revenue acquired through the Share bonus plan are purchased in the market approved section and an unapproved section.
Options are generally and held in trust for the executive for a period of three years.
These exercisable in the seven year period following the third anniversary shares will be forfeited should the executive leave prior to the third of grant and before the tenth anniversary, provided that the executive anniversary, unless exceptional conditions prevail.
During this retention remains in employment and subject to satisfaction of the performance period the participants will be entitled to dividends on the shares and condition.
Should an employee leave the organisation by virtue of to instruct the trustee how to vote.
redundancy or retirement, the requirement under the performance condition remains in place.
Company performance is measured on In determining the annual bonus payments for executive directors, a pro-rated basis to assess the extent to which it has been met.
the committee considered the scale of the restructuring accomplished during the year: the shareholder value added: and the results of each The performance condition for awards requires that, for grants with division, and the group as a whole, against the achievements of the a market value of up to one times salary, the real growth in adjusted targets that had been set at the beginning of the year as recalibrated earnings per share is greater than 3% per annum over the three year to reflect restructuring.
performance period before the options can be exercised.
In the event that the committee makes grants with a market value of greater than In reviewing performance against these targets for 2006 07, the one times salary, the proportion of the award above this level that committee believes that these executives met the targets set.
These will vest is assessed by reference to a vesting scale detailed below: include profit in relation to continuing operations, as discussed in the Highlights and Performance review within this Annual report.
Further, 4% real growth in earnings per share: allocations between the committee is satisfied that other individual performance measures 100149% of salary vest were exceeded.
Profit was chosen as the target for the year because 5% real growth in earnings per share: allocations between it was felt to be an appropriate measure of stabilisation and recovery.
150199% of salary vest 6% real growth in earnings per share: allocations at 200% The targets set for 2007 08 are made up of financial, business and of salary vest.
The financial element includes group profit performance.
The business element is related to specific The performance will be assessed by comparing the adjusted earnings targets for group profitability and a number of commercially sensitive per share growth to the growth in the Retail Price Index RPI over strategic objectives for each individual and the executive team.
the three year performance period.
If the performance condition The performance targets selected are considered appropriately is not met at the end of three years there is no facility for retesting.
2 Long term incentive plan 1997 6.3 Long term incentive share plans Under the LTIP, the committee awarded shares in the company to The companys long term incentive policy has been developed to senior management conditional upon the achievement of corporate reflect market practice and to provide long term management focus performance targets over a fixed period of three years.
The committee believes that a significant element of executive remuneration should be linked to the delivery of long term Vesting of the LTIP is triggered by achieving two independent sets returns for shareholders.
of performance conditions, with 50% of the vesting conditional upon each set as follows: a measure of the companys relative market performance as assessed by growth in total shareholder return TSR against a selected group of comparable companies from the constituents of the FTSE Food Producers Index: and, a return on capital measure, used as an absolute measure of company performance.
The committee determined return on capital as a strategic priority for realising growth in shareholder value.
42 Directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc 6.3.
3 Performance share plan 2007 Vesting of 50% of the LTIP is triggered by comparing the growth The proposed introduction of the PSP is the result of a review in TSR, in terms of share price growth and dividends, to that of the of the groups senior executive incentive strategy that has been TSR of the companies comprising a selected group of comparable undertaken recently by the committee, following the appointment of companies from the FTSE Food Producers All Share Index.
The committee considered that this represented an appropriate time to review the incentive arrangements for the The committee selected relative TSR, as a measure that reflects senior executives including the executive directors : and to ensure corporate performance relative to companies with similar that the long term incentives were in line with current best practice, characteristics and subject to similar market conditions.
as well as an efficient use of company resources in terms of cost and share dilution.
The comparable group companies chosen by the remuneration committee for the award in July 2006 were: Full details of the principal terms of the PSP are set out in Appendix 1 to the Notice of meeting.
Subject to shareholder approval, the initial Arla Foods plc RHM PLC awards will be granted shortly after the Annual general meeting Cranswick plc Robert Wiseman Dairies plc and annually thereafter, will normally vest three years after grant, Dairy Crest plc Uniq plc subject to ongoing employment and the satisfaction of pre-set Premier Foods plc performance conditions.
The proportion of the award that will vest is assessed by reference to In terms of quantum, participants may be granted annual awards a vesting scale.
If the groups performance is ranked below the median, over shares in the company worth no more than 200% of base salary.
this part of the conditional award will lapse.
Where the company In practice, the committee intends to operate within a limit of 150% is placed at the median or above, the maximum number of shares of salary for the initial awards made under the PSP for executive available for vesting will be calculated on a straight line basis with directors with a lower limit applying to other participants.
20% of the conditional award being available when the company is placed at the median and the maximum of 50% of the award being The committee believes that the performance conditions for the available where the company is placed in the upper quartile.
PSP align the interests of senior executives with those of shareholders.
The benefits available to senior management participating in the PSP 6.3.
2.2 Return on invested capital will only accrue to them when the company has delivered significant The proportion of the award that will vest is assessed by reference benefits to shareholders over a three year period.
Accordingly, the to a vesting scale.
Potential vesting of this proportion of the LTIP committee has decided that awards will vest three years after grant, is triggered by the achievement of a minimum growth in return on subject to the extent to which demanding performance conditions capital of 100 basis points over three years, measured against a base have been achieved by the end of a single three year period.
If the minimum target is not achieved this part of the conditional Two performance conditions will determine the vesting of awards.
These will be based on growth in the companys ROIC and its TSR performance.
Each will determine the vesting of one half of each award.
The maximum number of shares available for vesting will be calculated on a straight line basis with 7.5% of the conditional award being 6.3.
3.1 Return on invested capital available if the company achieves growth of 100 basis points, and a The proportion of the award that will vest is assessed by reference maximum of 50% of the award being available where the company to a vesting scale, as follows: achieves growth of 200 basis points.
Percentage of the total number Growth in ROIC over the of performance shares under For the purpose of determining any reward, return on invested capital performance period an award that will vest ROIC is defined as profit from operations before restructuring items, Less than 100 basis points 0% adjusted to exclude the non-service charge element of pension costs, divided by average invested capital.
Average invested capital is calculated 100 basis points 7.5% as net equity adjusted to exclude retirement benefit obligations net Between 100 basis points Straight line vesting between of deferred tax, and net debt, together with accumulated goodwill and 200 basis points 7.5%50% previously written off.
200 basis points or more 50% In response to any significant events, including material trading As under the current LTIP, for the purpose of determining any reward, events, the committee may at its discretion amend the performance ROIC is defined as profit from operations before restructuring items, conditions to reflect these changes.
adjusted to exclude the non-service charge element of pension costs, divided by average invested capital.
Average invested capital is Shares awarded under the LTIP are retained in trust on behalf of the calculated as net equity adjusted to exclude retirement benefit participants for a further two years.
During this retention period the obligations net of deferred tax, and net debt, together with participants will be entitled to dividends on the shares and to instruct accumulated goodwill previously written off.
At the end of the retention period, the shares will be transferred to employees from the Northern Foods Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT.
Northern Foods plc Directors remuneration report 43 Directors remuneration report continued In response to any significant events, including material trading 6.3.
4 Award of matching shares to S Barden events, the committee may at its discretion amend the performance As part of the terms of his recruitment as chief executive, the conditions to reflect these changes.
In addition, the ROIC element will committee offered S Barden the opportunity to commit to hold only vest if the committee is satisfied that the investment level over shares in the company worth up to 100% of his salary and in return the performance period was appropriate for ensuring the business receive an award of matching shares of up to three shares for every long term growth.
The matching award will be granted pursuant to the exemption from the need for prior shareholder approval contained The base ROIC for measuring performance for the first awards in Listing Rule 9.4.
The matching award has yet to be granted due under the PSP will be set at a higher level than the group achieved to regulatory restrictions.
The matching award will be non-pensionable as a whole, reflecting the ROIC achieved last year by the ongoing and non-transferable other than on death.
Half of the matching businesses in the group, in order to ensure that the targets are award will vest on the third anniversary of grant with the other half suitably challenging.
vesting on the fourth anniversary of grant to the extent that the performance conditions are met and providing S Barden retains the 6.3.
3.2 Total shareholder return purchased shares and remains employed by the group.
To the extent In order to focus executives on delivering outstanding returns to that the award vests the relevant shares will be delivered free of shareholders, the committee has decided to set the TSR targets in charge but, to the extent that it does not vest in part or in full, terms of improvement measured from the companys share price it will lapse.
averaged over the three months immediately prior to the beginning of the 2007 08 financial year.
The targets for the first awards under The performance conditions attached to the matching award will be the PSP are as follows: the same as those that will apply to the initial PSP awards proposed to be granted shortly after the Annual general meeting as set out above, Growth in TSR Percentage of the total number save that threshold vesting of the TSR element will not occur unless at the end of the of performance shares under the company achieves growth in TSR of 35% over the relevant period.
performance period an award that will vest The committee feels that, since this award is a one off, the targets Less than 30% growth from Nil applying to vesting at threshold should be more demanding.
an effective base of 1.24 this If S Barden ceases employment with the group before the fourth is equivalent to a share price anniversary of grant the outstanding part of the matching award will plus dividends of 1.61 lapse, unless he leaves in certain good leaver situations.
In this event, 30% growth 7.5% it will vest on cessation or, if the committee so decides, the normal vesting dates to the extent the performance condition is met at the Between 30% growth and Straight line vesting between relevant time.
This would be subject to time pro-rating to reflect the 80% growth 7.5% and 50% period of time between the date of grant and the date of cessation Growth of 80% or more 50% rounded up to the next whole year, relative to the period of three equivalent to a share price years, unless the committee concludes in its discretion that it is not plus dividends of 2.23 or more appropriate to apply the pro-rata reduction.
On a change of control or winding up of the company, the award will vest early to the extent The TSR will be calculated using the closing return indices over the that the performance conditions are met at that time and, again final three months of the performance period.
unless the committee decides otherwise, subject to time pro-rating to reflect the period between the grant date and the relevant event In addition, the TSR element will only vest to the extent that the on the basis set out above.
The award may also vest on this basis in committee is satisfied that the companys TSR over the period is the event of a demerger, special dividend or other similar event which, reflective of the underlying financial performance of the company.
in the committees opinion, materially affects the price of the companys shares.
Awards vest on a change of control or cessation of employment under good leaver provisions, subject to the performance conditions having The award will not, unless the committee decides otherwise, been met, and are normally reduced to reflect the shortened vest on an internal reorganisation, but will instead be exchanged performance period.
for an equivalent award over shares in the new holding company.
The award will not confer any shareholder rights on S Barden until As the implementation of this proposal requires the consent of the it vests, except that he will be entitled to a payment in cash and or companys shareholders, the relevant resolution seeking that consent shares, at the discretion of the committee shortly after vesting to is set out in the Notice of meeting.
No awards under the companys reflect the dividends that would have been paid on those shares, existing long term incentive arrangements have yet been granted in assuming such dividends were re-invested in further shares at the 2007 08.
Provided that the required resolutions are duly passed by closing price on the relevant ex-dividend dates.
In the event of any the companys shareholders, the first set of awards under the PSP variation of the companys share capital or any other event which will be granted in July 2007 immediately following the Annual general materially affects the price of the companys shares, the award may meeting.
No further awards will be made under the companys be adjusted as the committee sees fit.
The terms of the award may long term incentive plans or the DSBP, although in exceptional be amended in such manner as he and the committee may agree, circumstances, such as recruitment, shares may be awarded under provided that amendments to his benefit may only be made with the Executive share option plan.
the prior consent of shareholders.
The committee confirms that the matching award was considered to be necessary to facilitate his recruitment as chief executive and to honour commitments made to him on such recruitment.
44 Directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc 6.4 Deferred share plans 6.6 Executive shareholding 6.4.
1 Deferred share bonus plan 2004 Executives interest in both relative and absolute share price A deferred share plan was established in January 2004 to facilitate performance is important, and this is facilitated by share schemes the recruitment of P A ODriscoll as chief executive.
Participation in and the encouragement to build a significant personal shareholding the scheme was restricted to P A ODriscoll and on 29 March 2004 in the company.
an award of 81,453 shares was made in recognition of benefits accrued at Shell Europe.
These shares were not subject to a performance The company has introduced a policy requiring the executive directors condition and were transferred to her on 29 March 2007, following a to build a significant level of shareholding.
It is the view of the three year retention period.
committee that the act of building and maintaining a substantial shareholding in the company creates a strong alignment of interest 6.4.
2 Deferred share bonus plan 2006 between shareholders and executives.
A strategic restructuring plan was agreed by the Board, and comprised specific structural changes linked to qualitative and financial milestones.
1 Minimum shareholding requirements To support that strategy, a one off Deferred share bonus plan DSBP Subject to the approval of the PSP at the forthcoming Annual general was introduced in June 2006 so as to incentivise and retain the key meeting, the minimum shareholding requirements are detailed below: talent necessary to drive the specific performance improvements required.
This DSBP provided approximately 40 senior executives 300% of basic salary for the chief executive with an award of shares with a value up to 100% of base salary, 200% of basic salary for other executive directors.
at the prevailing market price of 81.75 pence per share on the date of award.
These shares will be satisfied by the transfer of existing The executive would retain all shares acquired through share option shares held in trust after the vesting date in July 2009. plans, long term incentive plans or deferred share plans other than those sold to meet income tax and NIC liabilities until the required Performance was to be assessed against key milestones over the minimum shareholding is achieved.
twelve month period to 31 May 2007.
These four key milestones related to improving free cash flow and reducing net debt as at The number value of shares required as the target will be fixed for 1 April 2006 by 125m, reducing the run rate for central costs by a year.
No purchases are required to respond to share price falls.
12 million per annum compared to 2005 06 and the successful resolution of the pension deficit.
These milestones have all been 6.7 Benefits achieved, or are expected to be achieved.
In addition, share awards In addition to basic salary all the executive directors receive certain for the executive directors and the then Operating board were also benefits, principally a car or car allowance, private medical insurance subject to a share price condition such that a minimum share price of and a pension.
92 pence per share needed to be attained for five consecutive business days over the twelve month performance period.
If the share price over a period of five consecutive Until her departure from the company, P A ODriscoll remained a business days during the performance period was at least 120 pence member of the Northern Foods Pension Scheme.
Current executive per share, the requirement to satisfy the key milestones would not directors are members of the Northern Foods Pension Builder scheme apply.
This condition was also met.
Their dependants are eligible for dependants pensions and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
The executives now need to remain in the employment of the group for a further two year period before any share awards vest.
During For all employees, including the executive directors, appointed after this time, awards will be subject to normal forfeiture policies.
However, 22 March 2005, the pension arrangements provided by Pension Builder awards may be retained under good leaver provisions, although for pension on retirement at age 65 are based upon a career average shares will not transfer until July 2009.
Awards include a dividend accrual of either: equivalent which will be paid on vesting.
No further awards can be made under this plan.
1.25% of annual salary per annum revalued, before retirement, by inflation up to 5.0%, with an employee contribution of 6.0%: or 6.5 Savings-related share option scheme 1.0% of annual salary per annum revalued, before retirement, by The company is also proposing a HM Revenue & Customs approved inflation up to 5.0%, with an employee contribution of 4.5%.
Savings-related share option scheme for all employees at the forthcoming Annual general meeting.
The sharesave scheme will This scheme has an optional salary sacrifice arrangement.
No other be open to all employees subject to eligibility, including executive payments to directors are pensionable.
Options are normally exercisable after either three, five or seven years from the date of grant.
The price at which options would Following the removal of the pensions earnings cap and the be offered is not less than 80% of the middle market price on the dealing introduction of the lifetime allowance under the Finance Act 2004, day immediately preceding the date of invitation.
In accordance with with effect from 6 April 2006, the company provides executives who HM Revenue & Customs requirements, there are limits on the number hold pension benefits in excess of the lifetime allowance with the of shares which can be issued under the scheme.
In addition, the use following options: of new issue shares under the scheme is limited to 10% of the issued share capital of the company, taking account of shares issued or to Continue to accrue pension under Pension Builder subject to the be issued under any other company employee share schemes over recovery charge: or the previous ten year period.
The group intends to invite employees A cash alternative, paid on a monthly basis, reflecting the companys to participate in the scheme following the announcement of the long term contribution rate to Pension Builder.
The cash alternative half year results.
Further details are set out in Appendix 2 of the for executive directors who are members of Pension Builder will be Notice of meeting.
Northern Foods plc Directors remuneration report 45 Directors remuneration report continued 6.8 Additional directorships In accordance with the rules of the Executive share option scheme Executive directors are encouraged to hold one non-executive 1994 and the companys Share option plan 1998, she will be able to directorship in a listed business in a non-competing sector.
Fees exercise any outstanding share options previously awarded to her until for such directorships are retained by the executive director.
The award of 81,453 shares made under the Deferred share plan on 29 March 2004 was transferred to her on 29 March 2007.
Currently, the executive directors do not hold any such directorships.
The shares granted under these three schemes were awarded on recruitment and in recognition of benefits accrued at Shell Europe and 6.9 Directors contracts were not subject to a performance condition.
All shares awarded under It is the companys policy that executive directors should have the companys Share option plan 2004, the LTIP, and the DSBP lapsed secure agreements, providing for a maximum of one years notice.
on the cessation of her employment on 30 April 2007.
The contract of J K Maiden is, and that of P A ODriscoll was, subject to one years notice by either party.
S Bardens contract is terminable 7 Performance graph upon six months notice by him, one years notice by the company.
In accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, the graph shows the companys five year performance In the event of early termination, the contract of J K Maiden provides, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index and that of P A ODriscoll provided, for compensation up to a maximum also measured by TSR.
basic salary, company car, private medical insurance, outstanding holiday and pension for the notice period.
In the event of early termination, The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as an appropriate comparison because the contract of S Barden provides for compensation up to a maximum it represents a broad equity market index, of which Northern Foods is of basic salary, car allowance, private medical insurance and outstanding a constituent.
Pension benefits are not included in the payment.
TSR measures share price growth with any dividends deemed to be The details of the contracts are summarised in the table below: reinvested gross on the ex-dividend date.
The TSR shown is based on daily spot prices.
Table 1 Date of contract Notice period TSR Performance index comparison 1 S Barden 30 May 07 12 months Northern Foods TSR compared to FTSE 250 J K Maiden 5 September 05 12 months 1 April 2002 to 2 April 2007 2 P A ODriscoll 29 March 04 12 months 1 12 months by the company and 6 months by S Barden 2 Resigned 1 February 2007 TSR 225 To protect the interests of the company and its shareholders, the executive directors contracts contain restrictive covenants, 200 the principal terms of which prevent the executive directors: 175 undertaking work for direct competitors, either during their 150 employment with the company or within six months, nine months 125 in the case of S Barden, of their employment terminating, without the express permission of the Board 100 enticing away from the group individuals or customers with whom 75 the executive directors had dealt in the twelve months prior to termination 50 enticing away from the group or employing senior or middle 25 managers from within the business with whom the executive directors had direct contact or knowledge in the twelve months 0 prior to termination.
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Financial period end P A ODriscoll resigned from the Board on 1 February 2007 but Northern Foods remained employed by the company and continued to receive salary FTSE 250 Index and benefits until 30 April 2007.
The Board agreed that she would not have to work the full period of her notice and, in accordance with the Audited information agreed terms of her cessation of employment, she received a payment The information in the following section of the remuneration report of 316,367 equivalent to six months salary and pension in May 2007. has been audited by the companys external auditors.
In the event that she has not secured new employment, on or before 1 November 2007, she will be entitled to receive a further payment of 158,183 equivalent to three months salary and pension.
All of the above amounts are subject to deduction of income tax and national insurance contributions.
In addition, she received a payment of 25,000 as a severance payment.
This payment is not subject to income tax or national insurance.
She will continue to enjoy the use of a company car and receive private medical benefits until 1 February 2008, or the date she obtains alternative employment if earlier.
In order to assist with finding new employment, she will receive outplacement assistance up to a value of 10,000.
46 Directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc 8 Directors remuneration and pension entitlements 8.1 Emoluments Table 2 shows an analysis of the salary, benefits and bonus elements of remuneration for the individual directors who held office during the year ended 31 March 2007.
Pension entitlements are shown in Table 3 and interests under the companys long term incentive plans and deferred share plans are disclosed in the sections covering share awards on pages 49 to 51.
Note 2 The figures for P A ODriscoll reflect her remuneration to the date of her resignation as a director.
She remained in the employment of the company until 30 April 2007 and received a total of 496,048 salary and benefits for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Note 3 Benefits include medical insurance and company car.
Note 4 The accrued annual bonus for S Barden comprises 166,000 in cash and deferred bonus shares to the value of 41,500.
The accrued annual bonus for J K Maiden comprises 147,600 in cash and deferred bonus shares to the value of 36,900.
Of the bonus paid, 80% was settled in cash and 20% in deferred shares.
Note 5 From 1 October 2005 the fee payable to non-executive directors was increased to 35,000 with an additional annual fee of 6,000 to the chairs of the audit and remuneration committees and of 2,000 to the senior independent director.
On that date the annual fee for the chairman was increased to 142,000.
Note 6 The salaries are net of salary sacrifice in relation to Pension Builder membership.
The salary paid to J K Maiden includes a non-pensionable contribution in lieu of pension contribution of 61,500.
Where a cash car allowance is taken in lieu of company car, this is included as salary.
Note 7 The figures for S Barden include the increase in his salary between the date of his recruitment as chief executive on 5 February 2007 and 31 March 2007.
Northern Foods plc Directors remuneration report 47 Directors remuneration report continued 8.2 Pension benefits Transfer value of real Increase in Accrued Additional Accrued increase in Transfer Transfer transfer pension as at Real pension pension at year less value at value at value less Table 3 1 April increase earned 31 March directors 1 April 31 March directors Directors pension 3 4 4 2006 in year Inflation in year 2007 contributions 2006 2007 contributions entitlements Notes S Barden 1 625 3,728 22 3,750 4,375 41,137 6,571 48,276 41,705 J K Maiden 1 1,875 3,777 67 3,844 5,719 44,068 21,884 66,727 44,843 P A ODriscoll 2 31,333 15,479 1,128 16,607 47,940 161,688 414,415 587,372 144,992 resigned 1 Feb 2007 Notes to Table 3 Note 1 The company provides executive directors who are members of Pension Builder with a pension, which is payable at age 65.
The accrual rates and member contributions for the scheme are set out in 6.7.
Death in service cover is a lump sum of three times annual earnings.
On the death of a director or a retired director, a spouses pension of 50% would be payable.
Early retirement may be granted with the consent of the company and the trustee of the scheme from age 55 but benefits are reduced by 4% per annum for ages 55 up to 64 years.
Once in payment, pensions are increased in line with Retail Price Index inflation up to a ceiling of 2.5% per annum.
The trustee, with the consent of the company, has discretion to apply such greater increase as it considers appropriate.
Note 2 The company provided executive directors who were members of the Northern Foods Pension Scheme with a pension, which is payable at age 60, equal to two thirds base salary, reduced where service to age 60 is less than 20 years.
This Scheme is no longer applicable to any of the current executive directors.
Note 3 The accrued pension at 31 March 2007 is the pension which the director would have been entitled to receive based on completed pensionable service to 31 March 2007, payable from normal pension date age 60 or 65 as appropriate and subject to revaluation increases between leaving and retirement.
Note 4 The transfer values are based on the accrued pensions at 1 April 2006 and at 31 March 2007 and are calculated as at 1 April 2006 and at 31 March 2007 respectively based on actuarial factors.
The transfer values are the lump sums which would have been paid to another pension scheme for the benefit of the director if he she left service at the respective dates.
A transfer value cannot be paid to a director personally.
48 Directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc 8.3 Long term incentive plans 8.3.
1 Share options Details of grants, exercises and lapses of options for individual executive directors under the executive share option scheme, detailed in section 6.3.
The performance condition does not allow for retesting.
Shares awarded to P A ODriscoll under this plan lapsed upon the cessation of her employment from the company on 30 April 2007.
Note 2 These options were granted under the Company share option plan 1998 on recruitment and in recognition of benefits accrued at Shell Europe and are not subject to a performance condition.
Under the terms of P A ODriscolls cessation of employment from the company on 30 April 2007, she has six months in which to exercise these shares.
If not exercised by 30 October 2007 these options will lapse.
Note 3 These options were granted under the companys Executive share option scheme 1994 on recruitment and in recognition of benefits accrued at Shell Europe and are not subject to a performance condition.
Note The mid-market price of the companys shares at 31 March 2007 was 123.75p 1 April 2006: 97.50p and the range during the year was 77.50p to 132.25p.
Northern Foods plc Directors remuneration report 49 Directors remuneration report continued 8.3.
2 Long term incentive plan The committee has awarded shares under the LTIP conditional upon the achievement of corporate performance targets in accordance with section 6.3.
2, as follows: Conditional interest at Shares Maximum 31 March or Beneficial Conditional released by potential award Market Beneficial or at date of interest at interest at the nominee granted price of the interest at resignation 1 April 1 April during the 4 July share at date 31 March as a director 1 1 Table 5 Executive long term incentive plan 2006 2006 year 2006 of grant p 2007 2007 S Barden 93,750 80.00 93,750 J K Maiden 34,426 93,750 80.00 128,176 2 P A ODriscoll resigned 1 Feb 2007 358,048 323,125 80.00 681,173 392,474 510,625 903,099 Notes to Table 5 Note 1 The interest in shares at 31 March 2007 is comprised of awards made on 17 December 2004, 12 December 2005 and 4 July 2006.
The shares will vest after three years from the date of grant, subject to performance conditions, and will be retained in trust on behalf of the participants for a further two year retention period.
Note 2 Shares awarded to P A ODriscoll under the LTIP lapsed upon cessation of her employment on 30 April 2007.
Note Shares awarded under the LTIP are retained in trust on behalf of the participants for a further two years after vesting.
During the retention period the participants are entitled to dividends on the shares and to instruct the nominee how to vote.
The performance measurement date is the three year period from the commencement of the financial year in which the award was made.
No other monies were paid or receivable by executive directors under long term incentive schemes in respect of qualifying services.
1 Deferred share plan 2004 Details of awards to individual executive directors under the Deferred share plan are detailed in Table 6 below.
Awards Balance at Beneficial Awards transferred by Awards 31 March 2007 interest at granted the nominee lapsed or at date of 1 April during during during resignation Table 6 Deferred share plan 2004 2006 the year the year the year as a director S Barden J K Maiden 1 P A ODriscoll resigned 1 Feb 2007 81,453 81,453 81,453 81,453 Note to Table 6 Note 1 Shares awarded to P A ODriscoll on 29 March 2004 in recognition of benefits accrued at Shell Europe are not subject to a performance condition.
These shares were transferred to P A ODriscoll on 29 March 2007, less an amount to satisfy tax and NI liabilities.
2 Deferred share bonus plan 2006 This table relates to the DSBP introduced in June 2006 which was subject to a one year performance period.
Full details are set out in section 6.4.
Awards Balance at Beneficial Awards transferred by Awards 31 March 2007 interest at granted the nominee lapsed or at date of 1 April during during during resignation Table 7 Deferred share bonus plan 2006 2006 the year the year the year as a director S Barden 366,972 366,972 J K Maiden 376,146 376,146 1 P A ODriscoll resigned 1 Feb 2007 586,422 586,422 1,329,540 1,329,540 Note to Table 7 Note 1 Shares awarded to P A ODriscoll under this plan lapsed upon cessation of her employment from the company on 30 April 2007.
50 Directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc 8.5 Directors aggregate remuneration The total amount of directors remuneration and other benefits was as follows: 2005 06 2006 07 Table 8 Directors aggregate remuneration Emoluments 1,313,299 2,143,878 Gains on exercise of options and award of performance share plan shares 14,065 1,327,364 2,143,878 8.6 Directors interests in shares The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company at 1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007 are detailed below.
2 Ordinary shares Share options LTIP: conditional DSBP: conditional number number awards number awards number Table 9 Description 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 Directors interests in shares of interest 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 Executive directors S Barden Beneficial 48,038 172,528 414,209 93,750 366,972 J K Maiden Beneficial 8,720 27,470 171,199 585,408 34,426 128,176 376,146 P AODriscoll Beneficial127,240 127,240 1,194,511 2,362,579 358,048 681,173 586,422 resigned 1 Feb 2007 Non-executive directors R J S Bell Beneficial C Dyer resigned 6 Sept 2006 Beneficial 10,000 A J Hobson Beneficial 8,000 18,000 A K Illsley appointed 2 Oct 2006 O GNi-Chionna Beneficial15,000 25,000 D T Nish Notes to Table 9 Note 1 At 1 April 2006 or date of appointment and at 31 March 2007 or date of resignation as a director.
Shares held by P A ODriscoll under the Deferred share plan 2004 transferred to her on 29 March 2007.
Note 2 This includes beneficial interests in ordinary shares, together with conditional interests under the Deferred share plan 2004 and shares held under the Share bonus plan.
The companys register of executive directors interests, which is available for inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, contains full details of executive directors shareholdings, options, LTIP and DSBP awards.
At 31 March 2007 the executive directors of Northern Foods, as potential beneficiaries of the Northern Foods ESOT, were interested in 2,951,142 2005 06: 3,114,793 ordinary shares held by the trustee.
By order of the Board Orna Ni-Chionna Chair Remuneration committee 30 May 2007 Northern Foods plc Directors remuneration report 51
