DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Service contracts and compensation Remuneration policy The executive directors have each entered into a service contract The Remuneration and nomination committee is responsible for with the Company.
The contracts do not contain any specific deciding the Companys framework of executive remuneration and provisions governing the payment of compensation upon setting remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
termination of the contract by the Company.
The notice period for The committees policy is to motivate and retain executive directors termination of the contract is 12 months to be given by either the by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit packages Company or the director.
These are linked to personal performance and the The three non-executive directors have been appointed under overall performance of the Group and, in turn, to the interests of contracts for services which are intended to continue for an initial the shareholders.
However, these contracts may be terminated The committee reviews annually all aspects of the executive by either the Company or the director on one months notice.
directors remuneration, performance and employment.
Performance graph Remuneration and nomination committee The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return All the members of this committee are non-executive directors and TSR performance, compared with the FTSE mid 250 index, a list of membership and the chair of the committee is set out on which the directors believe is the most appropriate broad index page 5.
The terms of reference of this committee are published for comparison.
KPMG, who were appointed by the Company, provide advice in relation to certain benefits for the directors and on the Companys pension scheme.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the executive directors.
Remuneration packages The committee reviews basic salaries to take effect from 1st July each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the committee takes account of financial data taken from a cross-section of UK companies within the electronic and engineering sectors.
The Company operates an annual appreciation award scheme for all group employees and directors, on which no pension contributions are made.
The award is based upon group profit performance and Rebased to 100 at 30th June 2002 the achievement of a number of strategic objectives to maintain Renishaw FTSE mid 250 the long-term development of the Group.
There was no award to directors in relation to the financial year ended 30th June 2007.
The report was approved by the Board of directors on 25th July The non-executive directors do not participate in the appreciation 2007 and has been signed on its behalf by:- award scheme.
The Company makes annual contributions of 15% of current basic salary to individual pension policies for Ben Taylor and Allen Roberts.
T D Snowden FCA Geoff McFarland participated in the Companys defined benefit Chairman, Remuneration and nomination committee scheme which was terminated as at 5th April 2007 and since that date, in the Companys defined contribution scheme and more details are given in note 8 on page 44.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys pension scheme.
Company cars and other benefits provided to directors are subject to income tax and no benefits are pensionable.
The benefits are included in the directors remuneration table on page 44.
There are no share options or long-term incentive schemes in operation for the directors.
In April 2007, Geoff McFarland was appointed as a non-executive director of Delcam plc, in respect of which no remuneration is payable by Delcam plc.
Details of directors remuneration including pensions which form the audited section of this report are shown in note 8 on page 44.
