56 Governance | Remuneration report Remuneration report This report sets out the remuneration policy and remuneration details of the 2 Remuneration policy executive and non-executive directors of the Company.
Remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Chairman of the Board of the Company is 2.1 General remuneration policy determined by the Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors the The Remuneration Committee, in setting remuneration policy, recognises Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Remuneration policy the need to be competitive in an international market.
The Committees policy for the non-executive directors is determined by the Board excluding the is to set remuneration levels which ensure that the executive directors are non-executive directors.
The report has been prepared in accordance with fairly and responsibly rewarded in return for high levels of performance.
the Companies Act 1985 and also meets the requirements of the Listing Rules Remuneration policy is designed to support key business strategies and of the UK Listing Authority.
At the same time, the policy must attract, motivate and retain talent.
Accordingly, executive 1 The Remuneration Committee directors receive base salaries comparable with companies of a similar size and international scope and have the opportunity to earn enhanced total 1.1 Composition of the Remuneration Committee remuneration for meeting the performance targets set by the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee consists of non-executive directors considered In setting remuneration levels for the executive directors, the Committee by the Board to be independent and the Chairman of the Board who was takes account of the remuneration policy and practice applicable to other independent on appointment to the Board.
It works within detailed terms of Group employees.
reference, copies of which are available on request from the Secretary and on the Companys website at www.
Its role includes the making The components of remuneration for executive directors comprise base of recommendations to the Board on policy for remuneration of executive salary a fixed sum payable monthly which is reviewed annually in September, directors and the Chairman who does not participate in discussions relating benefits including car allowance and non-contributory health insurance, to his own remuneration, defining the remuneration packages of executive an annual bonus with a deferred element in certain cases, long-term directors and the Chairman together with any compensation payments to incentives comprising share options and awards under a performance them and approving the Remuneration report.
The Committee also considers share plan and pension contributions.
the remuneration policy of the Company for senior executives of the Group other than members of the Board and seeks to maintain consistency in the The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy approach to remuneration policy.
The current members of the Remuneration must ensure that a significant part of the remuneration package is linked to the Committee are Mr T C W Ingram Chairman, Mr A J Hobson, Ms T Ingram, achievement of stretching corporate performance targets.
Performance-related Ms R Markland, Mr I Mason and Mr M E Rolfe.
elements for the year ended 30 September 2007 comprise share options, awards under a performance share plan and annual bonus.
The policy All the members of the Committee have been members of the Committee adopted by the Committee ensures that a significant proportion of the throughout the year other than Mr I Mason who joined the Committee remuneration of executives is aligned with corporate performance, generating on 1 November 2007 and Mr M E Rolfe who joined the Committee on a strong alignment of interest with shareholders.
Mr D H Clayton retired from the Committee on retiring over half of the executive directors potential remuneration package is as a non-executive director on 25 July 2007. performance-related.
1.2 Advisers to the Remuneration Committee 2.2 Policy on salary of executive directors In order to be aware of market trends in remuneration and current best It is the policy of the Committee to pay base salaries to the executive directors practice, the Remuneration Committee considers market data for comparable at broadly market rates compared with those of executives of companies of a businesses.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has received advice similar size and international scope in particular those within the FTSE 50-150 from Deloitte, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC and Watson Wyatt with more than 50% of revenue derived from overseas, whilst also taking into Limited, all independent firms of remuneration consultants appointed after account the executives personal performance and the performance of the consultation with the Board.
The terms of engagement of Deloitte, NBSC and Group.
In the year ending 30 September 2008 salaries of executive directors Watson Wyatt are available on request from the Secretary.
Deloitte, NBSC and have been increased by 5% from those disclosed in this report.
Watson Wyatt are entirely independent of the Board and provide no services to the Group other than advice on executive remuneration to the Remuneration 2.3 Policy on fees of non-executive directors Committee.
The only other service provided by Deloitte is advice to the The fees of the non-executive directors are reviewed every two years.
Groups North American business on a software implementation programme.
The current fees are in place for the two financial years ending on Ms K Geary Director of Human Resources and Corporate Communications 30 September 2008.
The basic fee for directors is 40,000.
An additional and Mr M J Robinson Secretary have provided advice or services to the fee of 5,000 and 7,000 is paid for membership of the Remuneration and Remuneration Committee that materially assisted it in its consideration of Audit Committees respectively.
Therefore, a director sitting on both those matters relating to directors remuneration for the financial year and the Chief Committees will receive fees of 52,000.
Further payments are made to the Executive, Ms K Geary and Mr M J Robinson have, following the invitation chair of each of these Committees, being 6,000 and 8,000 for chairing of the Committee, attended certain of its meetings.
However, they were the Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively.
A further payment not present at any meeting when any matter relating directly to their own of 4,000 is made each year to the Senior Independent Director.
remuneration was discussed, nor did they advise in any way in relation to their own remuneration.
In relation to the Chairman, it is the policy of the Board for remuneration to be comparable to that of the median fees for non-executive chairs of companies of a comparable size and complexity.
57 Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in long-term incentive In addition, in respect of any bonus awarded in excess of 75% of salary, plans or pension schemes.
25% of that excess is to be satisfied in deferred shares and 75% in cash if the director has not yet achieved the target of a holding of shares equivalent of 2.4 Policy on bonus 150% of their annual salary referred to below.
If this shareholding target has The bonus in the case of executive directors and indeed all employees is been achieved the bonus will be paid entirely in cash.
These shares awarded designed to reward outstanding performance.
in respect of bonus, which will be market purchased ordinary shares in the capital of the Company will only be released after three years to the relevant The Remuneration Committee has recently made certain revisions to its policy executive and will be generally at risk of forfeiture if the executive leaves within on bonuses from that previously reported, after taking into account market the deferral period.
Awards over deferred shares were made to executive practice amongst comparator companies, the overall remuneration structure directors as set out in the Directors remuneration table in paragraph 5 below.
for the executive directors and the Remuneration Committees desire to reward outstanding performance.
In making this review, the Committee also Wherever used in this Remuneration report, EPS refers to earnings per share took advice from Deloitte.
The changes arising from this review in relation to before amortisation or impairment of intangible assets, exceptional items, bonus have been to introduce an element of individual strategic objectives into amounts written off investments and is on a foreign currency neutral basis.
the calculation of bonus, to remove the cash multiplier element to bonus and This measure has been selected since the timing of acquisitions can be to amend the requirement to defer bonus into shares so that it applies only to unpredictable, with the result that the amortisation charge in respect of those directors who have not yet met the shareholding policy of the Board.
intangible assets is inherently difficult to budget.
The neutralised foreign currency basis has been selected as the Board considers this to be Bonus is linked to demanding strategic targets for the Group and for the consistent with the presentation and assessment of results by shareholders.
individual operating companies, the meeting or out-performance of which is a significant achievement.
Bonus payable to executive directors for on-target 2.5 Policy on long-term incentives performance is 75% of salary with maximum bonus potential of 125% of Executive share options salary.
In relation to executive directors with no specific divisional responsibility, Under the 1999 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, market value budgeted Group EPS is the basis for determining 75% of the calculation of option grants are made to senior executives and managers across the bonus whilst the remaining 25% is based on stretching individual strategic Group, as well as to other staff with high potential or to recognise significant objectives.
In the case of regional CEOs, 50% of bonus is based on the achievement or local market practice.
The annual grant is normally made achievement of the budget for EBITA of the relevant operating division, after the preliminary declaration of the annual results.
Under the rules of the 25% on the budgeted Group EPS with the remaining 25% based on the ESOS, the annual grant of options to an individual is limited to shares worth achievement of stretching individual strategic objectives approved by the up to 300% of base salary.
In practice, annual grants to executive directors Committee.
For those targets that are financial in nature, a bonus of 11% are limited to shares under option worth 100% of base salary except in of the maximum available under the relevant element is payable if 95% of exceptional circumstances, such as a promotion or recruitment or to reflect budget is achieved, 53% of the maximum available if budget is achieved and local market practice.
full payout is made if 110% of budget is achieved.
Between these points bonus is payable on a straight-line basis.
The maximum payable in respect The performance targets governing the vesting of options are based on of achievement of individual strategic objectives is 18.75% of salary within stretching EPS growth measured over a fixed three year period from the start the overall bonus limit of 125% of salary.
After the review, the Committee of the financial year in which the grant is made.
30% of options will vest at the determined that the cash multiplier previously applied to the calculation of end of the period if the increase in EPS exceeds RPI by 15% an average of bonus was no longer an appropriate incentive and, therefore, this is no 5% per year and 100% of those options will vest at that time only if RPI is longer applied.
exceeded in that period by 27% an average of 9% per year.
Between those targets, options will vest on a straight-line basis.
If those targets are not The individual strategic objectives are approved by the Remuneration met at the end of the three year period, then no further retesting of the Committee and are tailored to the individuals area of responsibility.
At the end performance criteria will be undertaken and the options will lapse.
of each year the Remuneration Committee will assess the degree to which these have been met.
Having considered the EPS growth target in the course of the year, the Remuneration Committee believes that it is appropriately demanding for the Group at this time and will keep the target under review to ensure that it continues to be stretching.
The Remuneration Committee considers that EPS growth is an appropriate performance measure as it requires executives to produce sustained improvement in the underlying performance of the Group.
58 Governance | Remuneration report Performance Share Plan Recognising the higher awards to be made in 2008, the Committee has Under the Performance Share Plan the Plan, annual grants of performance reduced the proportion of awards vesting for median TSR performance to shares will normally be made to executive directors and senior executives 25% of awards previously 30%, whilst all those shares vest for upper quintile across the Group after the preliminary declaration of the annual results.
Between those two points, shares will vest This Plan is operated in conjunction with the ESOS.
TSR will be measured over a single three year period from the start of the financial year in which the grant is made to establish Annual awards under the Plan are limited to shares worth up to 150% of whether the criteria have been met and if these criteria are not met on the base salary.
In 2008, it is proposed that grants of this level are made to third anniversary of grant, the rights to the performance shares will lapse.
The Remuneration Committee If financial performance in any year was disappointing, then the Committee considers that this grant level is market competitive, taking account of the would consider making no award under the Plan in the following year.
challenging performance criteria and the market in which the Company is operating and recognising the increased competition for senior executives.
For comparator companies listed overseas the TSR is calculated in local currency since this is considered to give a better reflection of the underlying The performance shares are subject only to a performance condition performance of the comparator companies over the performance period.
measuring the Groups total shareholder return TSR against a comparator The Committee will continue to review whether this treatment is appropriate.
group of international software and computer services companies.
TSR has been chosen as a performance condition to apply to the awards because Grant policy under long-term incentive plans it helps to align the interests of award holders with shareholders and The Committee believes that granting both options and performance complements the focus on Group financial results that arises from using shares provides a well balanced long-term incentive package.
As noted EPS under the ESOS and annual bonus plan.
The comparator group above, for 2008 awards under the Plan will be 150% of salary, with option for awards made in the year to 30 September 2008 will comprise the awards remaining at 100% of salary.
Both awards are subject to challenging following companies: performance targets.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this is a competitive grant policy for a company of Sages size and complexity and, taking account of other elements of the package, provides a broadly market Adobe Systems LogicaCMG median total remuneration.
If, for example, local legislation makes it less tax ARM Holdings Micro Focus International efficient to grant performance shares to any executive, an enhanced option Autonomy Microsoft grant may be made above 100% of salary in value to ensure equality of Blackbaud Misys treatment to these executives, with a corresponding reduction in the value Cap Gemini MYOB of the performance share award.
Cegid Oracle All-employee share schemes Dassault Systemes Salesforce.
com UK based executive directors are entitled to participate in The Sage Group Exact SAP Savings-Related Share Option Plan the SAYE Scheme.
Mr G S Berruyer Intuit Software AG currently holds units granted under the Sage Plan dEpargne dEntreprise PEE, which is an all-employee plan designed to enable French employees Lawson Software to acquire shares in the Company at a discounted price under terms comparable to those offered to UK employees under the SAYE Scheme.
This comparator group is similar to those previously used in connection with There are no performance conditions under either the SAYE Scheme or awards, with the deletion of those companies which have ceased to be listed the PEE since these generally do not apply to all-employee share plans and their replacement with suitable alternatives.
The Committee will keep under review the comparator group to ensure that it remains appropriate.
59 2.6 Policy on pensions Executive directors are permitted, where appropriate and with Board All the executive directors pension arrangements are of the defined approval, to take non-executive directorships with other organisations in contribution type.
The Sage Executive Pension Scheme is the main pension order to broaden their knowledge and experience in other markets and fund for Sage executives in the UK.
It is a defined contribution plan where, countries.
Mr P A Walker is currently a non-executive director of Diageo plc.
from 1 October 2007, the standard contribution rate is 25% of base salary Mr P L Stobart is a non-executive director of Capital & Regional plc and previously 15% subject, where appropriate, to limits set by HMRC.
was until 1 December 2006 a non-executive director of Planit Holdings plc.
The increase to the pension contribution followed the review undertaken with Mr P S Harrison is a non-executive director of Hays plc having been the assistance of Deloitte which showed that the previous contribution rate appointed in May 2007.
Fees received in their capacity as directors of of 15% was significantly less than that provided by comparable companies, these companies are retained by each of them reflecting the personal which negatively impacted the competitiveness of the total remuneration responsibility they undertake in these roles.
In the year under review, package.
Despite the higher pension contributions, the value of the total these fees were 67,500 in the case of Mr P A Walker, 31,500 in the remuneration packages of the executive directors remain no higher than case of Mr P L Stobart and 16,631 in the case of Mr P S Harrison.
The components of remuneration other than base salary are not pensionable.
The Board recognises the significant demands that are made on executive and non-executive directors and has therefore adopted a policy that no 2.7 Policy on directors shareholdings executive director should hold more than two directorships of other listed The Committee believes that all executive directors should hold a substantial companies.
The Board encourages executive directors to limit other number of shares in the Company.
It is, therefore, its policy that all executive directorships to one listed company and in no case should more than one directors over time hold shares equivalent in value to 150% of their annual directorship of another FTSE 100 company be taken.
Until the required holding is achieved, executive directors will be director holds non-executive positions at more than one listed company only expected to retain net of any shares sold to meet the tax liability in respect the fees from one such company will be retained by the director.
No formal of them at least 50% of: limit on other board appointments applies to non-executive directors under the policy but prior approval from the Chairman on behalf of the Board is Shares received as deferred bonus: required in the case of any new appointment.
In the case of the Chairman Shares resulting net of exercise costs from the exercise of share options prior approval of the Senior Independent Director is required on behalf of granted from December 2004 onwards: and the Board.
Performance shares received under the Plan.
The service contracts of executive directors and the letters of appointment In assessing whether the target of 150% of salary is met, vested but of non-executive directors prohibit the disclosure of confidential information unexercised options under the share option schemes of the Company will relating to the Group both during the term of the contract and after its be deemed to have a value equal to the net value after exercise costs and termination.
The letters of appointment of non-executive directors and service taxation of those options as if exercised on the relevant date.
contracts of executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available at the 2.8 Policy on service contracts Annual General Meeting.
In relation to contracts with executive directors, the Remuneration Committee aims to set notice or contract periods at one year.
If it is necessary to offer longer notice or contract periods to new directors recruited from outside the Group, it is the Companys policy to reduce these as soon as contractually possible after the initial period to a notice period of one year.
Both executive and non-executive directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following their appointment and thereafter require re-election at least once every three years.
The appointment of a non-executive director may be terminated without compensation if that director is not re-elected by shareholders or otherwise in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
The appointment of the non-executives is for a fixed term of two or three years, during which period the appointment may be terminated by the Board on notice, ranging from six to 12 months in the case of the Chairman of the Board.
There are no provisions on payment for early termination in their letters of appointment.
60 Governance | Remuneration report 3 Directors contracts and compensation All executive directors have service contracts, which may be terminated by the Company for breach by the executive or by giving 12 months notice.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office, with compensation based on what would be earned by way of salary, pension entitlement and other benefits over the notice period.
In the event that a contract is to be terminated, payments to the executive director may be staged over the notice period, or in the case of executive directors other than Mr G S Berruyer, the contract terminated and payments made in lieu of notice at the same time as salary would have been paid throughout the 12 months notice period.
There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus or outstanding awards under share incentive plans.
Non-executive directors appointments may be terminated without compensation other than in respect of fees during the notice period.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith ceased to be a member of the Board and was paid an amount equal to 12 months fees in lieu of notice of 12 months under the letter of appointment.
Details of the contract of service or contract for services of each person who has served as a director of the Company at any time during the financial year are set out below: Unexpired term of contract on Director Date of contract 30 September 2007 Notice period under contract Executive directors G S Berruyer 30 September 2004 12 months 12 months from the Company and or 6 months from individual P S Harrison 1 April 2000 Age 60 or 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual P L Stobart 26 September 2003 Age 60 or 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual R Verni 8 July 2003 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual P A Walker 26 September 2003 Age 60 or 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual Non-executive directors A J Hobson 24 May 2007 2 years 8 months 12 months from the Company and or individual T Ingram 21 December 2004 3 months 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual T C W Ingram 24 March 2006 6 months 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual R Markland 15 August 2006 2 years 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual The following directors ceased to be directors during the course of the financial year D H Clayton 6 September 2004 Nil terminated by mutual agreement 6 months from the Company and or 1 month from individual on 25 July 2007 J M Horn-Smith 27 January 2006 Nil terminated by mutual agreement 12 months from the Company and or individual on 26 April 2007 Notes: There are no other benefits in the contracts relevant to termination payment.
D H Clayton ceased to be a non-executive di rector on 25 July 2007.
He rejoined the Board as an executive director on 1 October 2007.
His current service contract is subject to notice of 12 months from either the Company or from him.
R Verni ceased to be a director on 11 October 2007.
J M Horn-Smith ceased to be a director on 26 April 2007.
61 4 Performance graph Total Shareholder Return TSR against FTSE 100 The graph shows, for the last five financial years of the Company, the TSR on a holding of shares in the Company as against the TSR of the FTSE 100 Index.
This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2007 of 100 invested in The Sage Group plc on 30 September 2002 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
The FTSE 100 Index is, in the opinion of the directors, the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Company should be measured because of the comparable size of the companies which comprise that index.
62 Governance | Remuneration report 5 Directors remuneration The information set out in sections 5.1 to 5.4 below has been subject to audit as required by part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
5.1 Directors emoluments and compensation audited information The total salaries, fees and benefits paid to or receivable by each person who served as a director at any time during the year, appear below.
These include all payments for services as a director of the Company, its subsidiaries or otherwise in connection with the management of the Group and any other directorship he or she holds because of the Companys nomination.
The other elements of directors remuneration are referred to under the heading General remuneration policy above.
4 Appointed 3 March 2006 and ceased to be a member of the Board on 26 April 2007.
Therefore, the figure above represents the fees paid to him whilst a director 204,000 and the payment in lieu of notice due to him 250,000.
7 Benefits in kind include the provision of car allowance and insurance.
8 Retirement benefits were accruing to four directors 2006: five.
All pension contributions accrued under money purchase schemes.
9 An element of bonus has been deferred by the Company as an award under the Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan.
Awards under that plan, which were made on 10 January 2008 over such number of shares whose market value is as close as possible to, but no greater than, the deferred bonus, will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
In the event that a director ceases to be an employee of the Group for reasons other than death, retirement, redundancy, injury, ill health or disability before the third anniversary of the date of grant, then the award will lapse unless the Remuneration Committee recommends otherwise.
The directors have no entitlement to the bonus deferred into an award of shares until it vests.
Full details of the award will be contained in the report for the year ended 30 September 2008.
In the year under review significant achievements were made against strategic budgets which are reflected in the bonus paid.
Apart from the payment in lieu of notice to J M Horn-Smith referred to in note 4 above no payments for compensation for loss of office or otherwise relating to termination of office or employment were made during the year.
No other payments including non-cash benefits were made to third parties in respect of the services of a person who served as a director of the Company at any time during the financial year.
Including gains on share options, the total emoluments of the highest paid director were 1,459,000 2006: 4,688,000.
In the table above exchange rates of $1.98 1 and 1.48 1 have been adopted.
5.2 Directors share options audited information There are limits on the number of newly issued shares that can be used to satisfy awards under the Groups share schemes in any ten year period.
The limits and the Groups current position against those limits as at 18 January 2008 the last practicable date prior to printing this document, are set out below: Limit Current position 7.5% of Groups share capital can be used for discretionary share schemes 5.9% used 10% of Groups share capital can be used for all share schemes 6.4% used Whilst there is still sufficient scope within the above limits to satisfy options through new issue shares for the foreseeable future, the Company currently intends to satisfy awards under the Performance Share Plan through the market purchase of shares.
63 Executive share options The Groups only current executive share option scheme is the ESOS where, in the year under review, executive directors received grants worth 100% of their base salary at the then relevant exchange rates where applicable.
Options granted to all directors of the Company and its operating subsidiaries throughout the Group under the ESOS that are exercisable on or after 23 February 2003 but before 6 January 2008 will normally be exercisable only if the percentage increase in the Companys EPS has exceeded the RPI by at least 3% each year in the three year period since grant i. e. by a total of 9%.
If that target is not met at the end of the three year period, then those options will only be exercisable if EPS growth exceeds RPI by 12% over the four year period following the date of grant.
In respect of options exercisable on or after 6 January 2008 the performance criteria for exercise are set out in paragraph 2.5 above.
In respect of any share options exercisable prior to 23 February 2003 no performance conditions apply as such conditions were not deemed appropriate by the Remuneration Committee at that time.
For the options exercised in the year, the market price of the exercised shares at the date of exercise was as follows: G S Berruyer 4 January 2007 was 266.50p.
The market price of a share of the Company at 30 September 2007 was 249.25p and the lowest and highest market price during the year was 220.50p and 277.75p respectively.
Total gains on the exercise of share options were 1,736,952 2006: 3,307,183, including 1,736,952 2006: 3,278,877 on executive share options.
The table above does not show exercises of options after 30 September 2007 which are referred to in the notes to the table in paragraph 5.5 below.
All-employee share scheme In relation to the SAYE Scheme, the outstanding options granted to each director of the Company are as follows: Shares under Shares under option at Granted Exercised Lapsed option at Exercise 1 October during during during 30 September price per 2006 the year the year the year 2007 Director share number number number number number Date exercisable P S Harrison 184.00p 5,081 5,081 1 August 2009 31 January 2010 P L Stobart 184.00p 5,081 5,081 1 August 2009 31 January 2010 Total 10,162 10,162 Notes: These options are not subject to performance conditions since these do not apply to this type of all-employee share scheme.
Under the PEE Mr G S Berruyer holds units in a French mutual fund, which holds shares in the Company.
The units must be held for no less than five years.
On 30 September 2006 13,195 units were held by Mr G S Berruyer at a price of 3.91 per share.
On 30 September 2007 14,801.8 units were held at a price of 3.89 per share.
Units are valued on a weekly basis.
The market price of a share on 10 January 2007, the date of the award, was 271.50p.
The vesting of shares awarded under the Performance Share Plan is subject to performance conditions measuring the Groups total shareholder return TSR against a comparator group.
30% of shares vest for median TSR performance as compared to that group whilst all shares vest for upper quintile top 20% TSR performance.
Between those points, shares will vest on a straight-line basis.
Further details are given in paragraph 2.5 above.
In respect of the awards vesting in 2008 and 2009 the comparator group for TSR comprised: Blackbaud, Business Objects, Cap Gemini, Cegid, Exact, Geac, Intuit, iSoft, Microsoft, Misys, MYOB, Northgate Information Solutions, Oracle, Salesforce.
com, SAP and Systems Union.
For those vesting in 2010 the group comprised: Blackbaud, Business Objects, Cap Gemini, Cegid, Exact, Intuit, iSoft, Lawson Software, LogicaCMG, Microsoft, Misys, MYOB, Northgate Information Solutions, Oracle, Salesforce.
66 Governance | Remuneration report 5.4 Deferred shares audited information The outstanding awards granted to directors of the Company under the Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan are as follows.
In the event that a director ceases to be an employee of the Group for reasons other than death, retirement, redundancy, injury, ill health or disability before the third anniversary of the date of grant then the rights to the award will lapse, unless the Remuneration Committee recommend otherwise.
Awards are not subject to performance conditions.
No variations were made in the terms of the awards in the year.
67 5.5 Interests in shares The interests of each person who was a director of the Company as at 30 September 2007 together with interests held by his or her connected persons were: Ordinary Ordinary shares at shares at 30 September 30 September 2007 2006 Director number number G S Berruyer 223,880 D H Clayton 31,000 25,000 P S Harrison 8,437 8,437 A J Hobson 24,126 20,000 T Ingram 10,438 T C W Ingram 26,714 23,114 R Markland 5,000 P L Stobart 23,477 23,477 R Verni 25,000 P A Walker 6,069,772 7,069,772 Total 6,447,844 7,169,800 Notes: The interests of D H Clayton are shares on his retirement as a director on 25 July 2007.
He later rejoined the Board as an executive director on 1 October 2007.
There have been no changes in the directors holdings in the share capital of the Company between 30 September 2007 and 18 January 2008.
5.6 Significant awards to past directors No significant awards were made to any person who was not a director at the time the award was made but who was previously a director.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf: T C W Ingram Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 January 2008
