Remuneration Policy The principal objectives of the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by Mr B Pointon and comprises the Non-executive Directors set out on page 19 are to attract, retain and motivate high quality senior management with a competitive package of incentives and awards linked to performance and the interests of shareholders.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the Executive Directors are fairly rewarded taking into account all elements of their remuneration package in the light of the Groups performance.
The Committee has appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP to provide independent market information and advice relating to executive remuneration and benefits.
Deloitte & Touche LLP are considered to be independent as they provide only very limited other services to the Group.
This remuneration report will be put to shareholders for their approval as a separate ordinary resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As described below, a significant proportion of potential total remuneration is performance related and is built around annual and longer term incentives.
For Directors achieving medium performance, performance related pay would represent approximately 35% of total remuneration.
If performance were such that the maximum award available under each incentive scheme was paid, performance related pay would represent approximately 67% of total remuneration.
Basic Salary The basic salary element is determined after evaluating the Executive Directors duties and responsibilities and is based on the complexity, know-how, decision-making involved and their overall impact on the business.
Account is taken of relevant external data that provides information to assist in the deliberations.
Basic salary is generally reviewed on an annual basis or following a significant change in responsibilities.
Annual Cash Bonuses Annual cash bonuses are payable at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as a percentage of basic salary dependent on corporate performance compared to target.
For the year to 31 March 2007, the Executive directors potential cash bonus ranged from 20% for achieving target performance to a maximum bonus of 75% for achieving a performance of 17% above target performance.
Cash bonuses are not pensionable.
Pending the conclusions of a comprehensive review of executive remuneration, for the year ended 31 March 2008 the Remuneration Committee has introduced an additional annual cash bonus non pensionable, of up to 25% of basic salary, for the achievement of certain operating cashflow targets.
The maximum bonus would be achieved for performance 18% above target.
Long Term Incentive Plan Under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP senior employees may be granted an award annually, the vesting of which is subject to the attainment of two pre-determined performance conditions measured over a three year period.
Awards are in the form of a number of shares, the maximum value in any financial year cannot be more than 100% of basic salary as at the date of grant and calculated on the Companys share price at that time.
The first performance condition is based on Total Shareholder Return TSR, where the Companys TSR achieved during the three year performance period is measured against the TSR achieved by those companies that constituted the FTSE Support Services Sector immediately before the date of grant of an award.
An award will only vest in full if the Companys TSR results in it being ranked in the upper quartile of the companies in the comparator group where the company with the highest TSR is ranked first.
If the TSR of the Company results in a median position in the comparator group then 25% of the award will vest.
Vesting above the median position is on a sliding scale, with 3% of the award vesting for each percentile increase in the Companys rank above the median position up to the maximum award.
If the Companys TSR for the performance period results in a position below the median then the award will lapse.
The second performance condition is based on Earnings Per Share EPS and for an award to vest, the average growth in the Companys adjusted EPS calculated on a consistent basis must exceed the growth in Retail Price Index over the same period by at least nine percentage points.
No amendment may be made to the performance conditions which would be to the material advantage of participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
continued The Shanks Group plc Employee Share Trust has been established for the purpose of granting awards under the LTIP and to hold shares in the Company either purchased in the market or new shares subscribed for, with funds provided by the Company or its subsidiaries.
As at 31 March 2007 the Employee Share Trust did not hold any of the Companys shares.
Performance Review Figure 1: Shanks Group plc Total Shareholder Return versus FTSE Support Services Sector Index 200 180 160 140 120 Shanks Group plc 100 FTSE Support Services Sector 80 60 40 20 0 2002 3 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 2006 7 Source: Datastream The graph at Figure 1 shows the Total Shareholder Return of the Company and that of the FTSE Support Services Sector Index over the five-year period to 31 March 2007.
This Index has been selected as it is a broad equity index of which Shanks Group plc is a constituent company.
Share Option Schemes The Committee believes that share ownership by employees encourages the matching of long term interests between employees and shareholders.
All UK employees including Executive Directors, subject to certain service conditions, may participate in an HM Revenue & Customs approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS.
Senior executives were also able to participate in an Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The ESOS expired in August 2005 and after this date only awards under the LTIP scheme can be made to senior employees.
Under the terms of the SRSOS for employees, options may be granted during the ten year period to July 2015 to acquire up to 10% of the issued equity share capital of the Company, including options granted under the ESOS and LTIP.
Options are granted at the higher of the nominal value and an amount determined by the Remuneration Committee being not less than 80% of the market value.
At 31 March 2007 options outstanding amounted to 0.7m ordinary shares see note 6 to the financial statements.
Under the terms of the expired ESOS, options could be granted during the ten year period to August 2005 to acquire up to 5% of the issued equity share capital of the Company.
The exercise of options granted under the ESOS, is subject to a performance condition, achievement of which is a pre-requisite for exercise of options.
The condition is tested once only after a period of three years and if it is not achieved the relevant options will lapse.
Options granted after 26 July 2001 will only be exercisable if the Groups EPS, calculated on a consistent basis, exceeds the growth in Retail Price Index over the same period by at least nine percentage points.
The Remuneration Committee applied a different performance condition for options granted under the ESOS prior to 26 July 2001.
These options may not be exercised unless the growth in the Groups EPS over the period of any three consecutive years after the date of grant equals or exceeds the increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period by at least six percentage points.
Options were granted at the higher of the nominal value or the market value.
At 31 March 2007 options outstanding amounted to 2.0m ordinary shares see note 6 to the financial statements.
annual report 2007 Performance Conditions The performance conditions for the LTIP and ESOS schemes described above were chosen following recommendations from external remuneration advisers and remain consistent with market practice.
Directors Service Contracts and Notice Periods The Remuneration Committee has agreed that the policy with regard to the notice period for Executive Directors is one year.
Accordingly, Mr M Averill and Mr F Welham have rolling service contracts dated 29 September 1994 and 21 July 2005, respectively, which require one years notice from the Company and six months notice from the Director.
As has been detailed in the Chairmans Statement and the Directors Report, Mr Averill will be standing down from his position as Group Chief Executive and Director with effect from 30 September 2007.
However, in line with his notice period Mr Averill will continue to be employed by the Company on an advisory basis until the end of May 2008.
Termination payments are limited to the directors contractual remuneration including basic salary, any bonus earned and benefits for the unexpired portion of the notice period.
Any entitlement to LTIP awards or exercise of share options upon termination is governed by the rules of the relevant scheme.
Pensionable service will also accrue for the unexpired portion of the notice period.
In the event of early termination, the Remuneration Committee will consider carefully what compensation should be paid taking into account the circumstances of the particular case.
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
Mr P Delaunois has an agreement to provide consultancy services via his company, S. A. CGO, to the Groups Belgian subsidiary companies which is terminable on giving three months notice by either party.
External Appointments The Remuneration Committee acknowledges that executive directors may be invited to become Non-executive directors of other quoted companies which have no business relationship with the Group and that these duties can broaden their experience and knowledge to the benefit of the Company.
Executive directors are limited to hold one such position and the policy is that fees may be retained by the director, which reflects the personal risk assumed in such appointments.
In light of Mr M Averills impending retirement from the Board, the Remuneration Committee permitted Mr Averill to take on an additional Non-executive position during the year.
Accordingly Mr Averill has two Non-executive positions.
The fees received from these appointments were 45,000.
Directors Emoluments Audited The following table shows a breakdown of the emoluments of the individual Directors, excluding pension contributions to the defined benefit scheme and potential gains on exercise of share options and vesting of LTIPs, for the period of time during which they were Directors of the Group.
i Other emoluments for Mr M Averill and Mr F Welham include such items as car allowance and medical insurance which are not pensionable.
In the case of Mr Welham this also includes Company contributions to the Defined Contribution section of the Shanks Group Pension Scheme.
continued ii Other emoluments for Mr P Delaunois are for fees received amounting to 40,000 per annum for consultancy services provided to the Groups Belgian subsidiaries.
Mr Delaunois is a shareholder and director of S. A. CGO and the fees were paid to this company.
iii The Non-executive Directors do not participate in the annual bonus plan and do not receive any pension contributions from the Group.
Directors Pension Benefits audited Mr M Averill and Mr F Welham are both members of the Final Salary Defined Benefit section of the Shanks Group Pension Scheme, which is a funded scheme, approved by HM Revenue & Customs.
In the case of Mr Welham, pension benefits are capped at the notional HM Revenue & Customs earnings cap, which is reviewed annually.
For the year to 31 March 2007 the notional cap was 108,600.
Under the terms of this scheme the Executive Directors have: at retirement, and subject to length of service, a pension of up to two thirds of basic salary: an employee contribution of 7% of basic salary: a lump sum death in service benefit of four times basic salary: and a spouses pension on death.
The table below shows the movement in Directors pension benefit during the year: Directors Final Salary Pension Benefits Transfer value of Transfer value Transfer value increase in Increase in at 31.03.07 at 31.03.06 accrued pension Increase in accrued of pension of pension Increase in during the year accrued pension Accrued benefits benefits transfer value net of inflation Age at pension during the year pension at accrued at accrued at less Directors less Directors 31.03.07 during the year net of inflation 31.03.07 31.03.07 31.03.06 contributions contributions ii ii iii iv iv v v 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 000 000 M Averill 55 18 9 215 4,123 3,757 340 145 F Welham 42 3 2 27 221 189 24 8 i Mr F Welham was subject to the HM Revenue & Customs cap on approved pension benefits and was provided with additional pension benefits for basic salary in excess of the cap via the Defined Contribution section of the Shanks Group Pension Scheme.
The Company contributed 13,000 into this section of Mr Welhams pension during the year and is included in the other emoluments section of the Directors remuneration table shown on page 31.
The value of Mr Welhams fund in the Defined Contribution section as at 31 March 2007 including his own contributions was 16,000. ii The increase in accrued pension during the year represents the difference between the total accrued pension at the end of the year and the equivalent amount at the beginning of the year.
iii The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service at the end of the year.
iv The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The calculation is based on the assumption that pensions will be paid from the earliest retirement age possible without the application of actuarial reduction factors at age of 57 for Mr M Averill and 62 for Mr F Welham.
v The increase in transfer value has been calculated taking into account market conditions and the Directors ages at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2007.
The price is set by the Remuneration Committee but is not less than 80% Savings Related Scheme and 100% Executive Scheme of the average market price of the shares over the last three dealing days immediately preceding the date of the invitation to subscribe Savings Related Scheme or the date of grant Executive Scheme.
The performance conditions relating to the exercise of Executive Share Options are shown on page 30.
continued ii The highest closing mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Company during the year was 269.25p and the lowest closing mid-market price during the year was 158p.
The mid-market price at the close of business on 30 March 2007 was 269.25p.
Other Interests None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group.
Auditable Information The information in the Remuneration Report subject to audit is that included in the tables and related notes in the sections above on Directors Emoluments, Directors Pension Benefits, Directors Interests under the LTIP and Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares and Share Options.
