Directors remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for all elements of the Executive Directors remuneration, as well as the management of their performance.
The constitution of the Remuneration Committee was reviewed in 2004 and changes were made to ensure compliance with the Combined Code.
The Group considers all members of the Remuneration Committee to be independent.
During 2007 the Remuneration Committee also reviewed and updated its charter to effectively reflect its responsibilities.
The CEO and the Chief Financial Officer CFO attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee at its invitation, but neither is involved in any decisions relating to their own remuneration.
The members of the Remuneration Committee during 2007 were: Kate Nealon, an Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairperson of the Remuneration Committee: Robin Buchanan, an Independent Non-Executive Director: Patrick Langlois, an Independent Non-Executive Director: Dr Jeffrey Leiden, an Independent Non-Executive Director: and Dr Barry Price, an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Dr Barry Price stepped down as a member and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on July 25, 2007.
Ms Kate Nealon was appointed as Chairperson of, and in addition Dr Leiden was appointed a member of, the Remuneration Committee on July 25, 2007.
The Remuneration Committee was materially assisted in 2007 by Ms Anita Graham, EVP Chief Administrative Officer.
The following external advisers were appointed by and materially assisted the Remuneration Committee: Deloitte & Touche LLP who also provided audit and tax services to the Group, who provided data and advice on general issues around the operation of the Groups incentive schemes: and Slaughter and May, who provided general legal advice to the Group.
Executive remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee considers that an effective remuneration policy, aligned to the Groups business needs, is important to the Groups success.
It directly impacts the Groups ability to recruit, retain and motivate high calibre executives who deliver sustained value to shareholders and build the Group for long-term success.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing, reviewing and overseeing the implementation of the Groups compensation and benefits policy.
The Remuneration Committee regularly monitors the effectiveness of the policy and reviews this policy based on independent analysis and advice, an understanding of the business drivers and competitive environment in which the Group operates and on-going dialogue with shareholders.
The Groups executive compensation and benefits policy is based on the following principles: Base pay is market and performance driven, with reference to a blended US UK market comparison.
It is targeted at or around the median relative to the comparison, based on individual performance.
The Annual Incentive Plan is performance-based and is linked to the achievement of an appropriate mix of corporate and individual performance targets.
The Annual Incentive Plan allows the Group to measure and reward progress against its strategic goals and is closely tied to delivery of sustained shareholder value.
68 Directors remuneration report continued Share-based compensation is a key element of the Groups remuneration policy as it aligns the interests of the Groups executives with the interests of its shareholders.
This element of compensation also utilises a blended US UK market comparison to determine the face value of awards to Executive Directors: Benefits programs are locally competitive and provide for the welfare and well-being of the Groups employees and their families: The Remuneration Committee currently aims for variable compensation to represent over twothirds of total remuneration: and The Remuneration Committee believes that Executive Directors should be encouraged to own shares in the Group in order to ensure the alignment of their interests with those of the Groups shareholders.
Share ownership guidelines have been effective since 2006.
The remuneration package The main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior management are: Salary Annual Incentive Plan a Cash Component b Share Component Long Term Incentives a Portfolio Share Plan Pension and other benefits 1 Salary The Remuneration Committee reviews salaries annually and utilizes a comparator group that is a blend of US and UK companies with sector, size, complexity, operating position and international characteristics similar to those of the Group.
As part of its normal annual salary review process, the Remuneration Committee conducts a review of a range of factors such as competitive market data provided by independent external consultants, US and UK market conditions, performance-related pay increases across the Group and individual skills, performance and results achieved.
The Remuneration Committees policy is for salary to be targeted at or around the median of the blend of US UK comparators, with appropriate differentiation based upon various factors, including skills and experience as well as individual performance.
Based on this review, and on corporate and individual performance results, salaries for the CEO and CFO were increased 6% each effective January 1, 2008, to $1,227,657 denominated in $ and 414,170 $807,437 equivalent based on the average exchange rates prevailing in 2007, respectively.
2 Annual Incentive Plan Shire operates an Annual Incentive Plan which rewards Executive Director performance based on achievement of pre-defined, Committee-approved corporate objectives In addition the Committee approves individual objectives for Executive Directors.
The Group utilizes the Committee-approved objectives to set corporate objectives for 2007.
The Scorecard organizes corporate objectives into all areas that drive the success of the business: financial, customer, people and capabilities, and operational excellence.
These objectives apply to all employees participating in the Groups Annual Incentive Plan and include a description of the objective and key performance indicators KPI, including targets and deadlines.
Awards under the Plan are made only when exacting levels of performance specified by the KPI have been achieved.
Objectives measured by the Groups financial performance are assessed on the Groups results, as reported in the Groups Annual Report on Form 10-K under US GAAP.
69 Directors remuneration report continued The detailed objectives and performance standards contain commercially sensitive information and therefore are not detailed here.
However, some of the objectives are summarised below according to the four Scorecard areas for 2007: Financial o Growth in revenue, including key products, like ADDERALL XR, VYVANSE, ELAPRASE: o Revenue generation related to new product launches, including ELAPRASE, LIALDA and VYVANSE: o Product sales and Earnings Before Interest and Tax targets for each Business: and o Business Development targets.
Customers o Metrics relative to launch of new sales forces.
People and Capabilities o Programs to support the development of high potential talent: and o Succession and career progression programs for employees.
Operational Effectiveness o Successful NDA approvals and product launches: o Pipeline supplement through in-licensing and internal development activities: and o Facilities strategies.
Personal objectives are also set at the beginning of the year and are aligned with individual accountabilities for the development and execution of plans to achieve corporate objectives in the current year and build for the future success of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee assesses performance against objectives in the first quarter of the following year.
The target incentive is paid where Executive Directors have fully achieved their individual objectives and the corporate objectives have been met in full.
The maximum incentive is paid when the Remuneration Committee determines that individual and or corporate performance has been exceptional.
Maximum incentive payments for 2007 were capped at 115% of salary in cash and 65% of salary in deferred shares for the CEO and 100% of salary in cash and 55% of salary in deferred shares for the CFO.
Weighting of target Target incentive Maximum incentive incentive objectives as a % of salary as a % of salary Corporate Individual Matthew Emmens CEO 65% cash 20% shares 115% cash 65% shares 80% 20% Angus Russell CFO 55% cash 15% shares 100% cash 55% shares 70% 30% The incentive payments awarded to each Executive Director for 2007 reflect the corporate and individual achievements and amounted to 115% of salary in cash and 65% in deferred shares for Mr Emmens and 77% of salary in cash and 51% in deferred shares for Mr Russell.
These incentive awards are consistent with the overall performance of the Group in 2007, which included: total revenue growth of 36%: product sales up 41%: the acquisition of New River in April 2007: 70 Directors remuneration report continued the sale of SOLARAZE, VANIQA and several non-promoted products to Almirall, for cash consideration of $210 million: in-licensing of: rights to JUVISTA worldwide with the exception of EU member states : three Pharmacological chaperone compounds for lysosomal storage disorders in markets outside of the US: and rights to SPD550, which is being developed for treatment of celiac disease, in markets outside the US and Japan: the successful launch of three new products ELAPRASE in EU, VYVANSE and LIALDA : highly successful achievement of R&D milestones including the approval of LIALDA by the FDA in January 2007: the approval of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric populations by the FDA in February 2007 and the approvable status of INTUNIV for treatment of ADHD: and the highly successful implementation of other Scorecard objectives focused on the continuing growth of the Group.
3 Long term incentives a The Portfolio Share Plan The Portfolio Share Plan the Plan, was adopted in October 2005.
This plan replaced the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme and the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Shire plc has made no awards in 2007 and will make no further awards to Executive Directors or any other employee under the previous plans.
The purpose of the Plan is to enable the Group to motivate and reward its workforce by reference to share price performance, and to link the interests of participants with those of the Shire plcs shareholders.
The Plan is designed to align the interests of selected employees of the Group with long-term value creation for shareholders.
Participation in the Plan is discretionary.
Under the Plan, awards granted to Executive Directors will be subject to a performance target, which must, in normal circumstances, be met before the award vests.
Performance targets will normally be measured over a period of not less than three years.
Special rules apply in the event of the participants employment terminating early or on a change of control of the Group.
The Plan is split into two parts, which can be operated separately.
Under Part A of the Plan, Stock Appreciation Right SAR Awards can be granted.
A SAR Award is the right to receive shares or ADSs in Shire plc linked to the increase in value of a specified number of shares over a period between three and five years from the date of grant and, in the case of Executive Directors, subject to the satisfaction of performance targets.
SAR Awards will normally vest three years after the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction of performance targets in the case of Executive Directors, and can be exercised up to the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
Under Part B of the Plan, Performance Share PSP Awards can be granted.
A PSP Award is the right to receive a specified number of shares or ADSs three years from the date of grant.
In the case of Executive Directors, performance targets must be satisfied before a PSP Award vests.
Upon vesting of the PSP Award, shares will be released to the participant automatically without any action on the part of the participant.
The Plan contains individual grant limits set at six times base salary for SAR awards in any one year and four times base salary for PSP awards in any one year.
It is the Groups intention for awards granted under the Plan to Executive Directors to be comprised of either or both a SAR Award and a PSP Award.
Ordinarily, it is the Groups intention to provide annual grants to the CEO and CFO with face values calculated by reference to the average share price over the prior twelve month calendar period as follows: for the CEO, equivalent to approximately 4 times base salary in SARs and 3 times base salary in PSPs: and for the CFO, equivalent to approximately 2.2 times base salary in SARs and 1.6 times base salary in PSPs.
71 Directors remuneration report continued Performance criteria Awards under the Plan normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
In the case of Executive Directors, awards will only vest if the Remuneration Committee determines that the performance conditions have been satisfied and that, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to justify the vesting of the award.
Performance criteria are based on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR measured against two comparator groups.
Vesting of one-third of an Award will depend upon the Groups performance relative to the TSR performance of FTSE 100 constituents, excluding financial institutions.
The vesting of the remaining two-thirds of an Award will depend upon the Groups performance relative to the TSR performance of a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector see below.
Vesting will be as follows: performance below the median versus the comparator companies and the FTSE 100 - 0% vesting: performance at median versus the comparator companies and the FTSE 100 - 33% vesting: and performance between median and upper quartile versus the comparator companies and the FTSE 100 straight-line vesting from 33% to 100% for at or above upper quartile performance.
The comparator group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector currently includes the following companies: Novo Nordisk, Schering AG, Altana, Merck Serono, UCB, Lundbeck, Forest Labs, Allergan, Sepracor, Cephalon, Watson, Biovail, King, Valeant and Medicis.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to amend this group of companies to ensure that the group stays both relevant and representative: however, the change must not have the effect of making the performance criteria either materially easier or materially more difficult to achieve, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, than it was or they were immediately before the circumstance in question.
TSR performance will be measured using an averaging period of three months.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee will have regard to the same calculation using an averaging period of six months as part of a fairness review to ensure that vesting properly reflects underlying performance.
If the performance conditions are not met, awards will lapse.
Awards made under the Plan in 2007 are set out below.
Legacy incentive plans No share or share option awards have been granted under these plans in 2007, however share and share option awards from grants in previous years continue to vest.
i Share options No awards were made under the Groups 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme in 2007.
In 2005, discretionary grants of share options under this scheme were made to Executive Directors to align their interests with those of shareholders and to promote sustained long-term Group performance.
The face value of annual option grants under the Scheme was capped at three times salary.
For 2005 grants, the performance target is based on real growth in diluted earnings per share EPS as reported under US GAAP adjusted to ensure a consistent basis of measurement, as approved by the Remuneration Committee, including the add back of significant one time items.
72 Directors remuneration report continued The minimum performance required in order for Executive Directors options to vest is that Shires EPS grows by 22.9% in the three years following the date of grant.
In the case of an annual grant of options worth three times salary, Shires EPS must grow by 28.4% in the three years following the date of grant for all the options to vest.
Options with a value on grant as a % of salary Three-year EPS growth Up to 100% 22.9% for Executive Directors 16.9% for all other employees 101% to 200% 22.9% 201% to 300% 28.4% Over 301% of salary 34.9% The 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme, which was approved by shareholders in 2000, contained an unlimited retesting feature from the date of grant.
The Remuneration Committee decided, after consultation with major institutional shareholders in 2003, that for options granted under the scheme from 2004 onwards, the performance condition should be retested once only, five years after the grant and then only where EPS growth has not met the minimum level of performance over the first three years.
The level of EPS growth over the five-year period needs to be commensurately higher to meet the retest.
The new Portfolio Share Plan, which has replaced the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme, does not allow re-testing.
Details of the Groups share option schemes are set out in Note 32. ii LTIP No awards were made under Shire plcs LTIP in 2007.
The LTIP was adopted in 1998 and amended in 2000.
The performance condition attached to the vesting of awards under the LTIP is Shires TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index over a three-year period.
Under the LTIP: all shares vest if Shires TSR is in the top 10% of the FTSE 100: 20% of the shares vest if Shires TSR is at the median of the FTSE 100, with vesting between these points on a linear basis: and no shares vest if Shires TSR is below the median of the FTSE 100.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether and to what extent the performance condition has been met on the basis of data provided by an independent third party.
All awards made under the LTIP were made as a conditional allocation, thereby allowing, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, for a cash equivalent to be paid on maturity of the award.
Whilst the performance period is measured over three years, an award is normally transferred after the fourth anniversary of grant, to the extent the performance condition has been met.
4 The implementation of share ownership guidelines The Remuneration Committee believes that Executive Directors and certain other members of senior management should be encouraged to own shares in Shire plc in order to ensure the alignment of their interests with those of Shire plcs shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee discussed this matter with shareholders during its consultation process in 2005, and has developed share ownership guidelines which came into effect in 2006.
The Executive Share Ownership Guidelines are administered by the Remuneration Committee and are based on the following principles: 73 Directors remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee believes that share ownership is an important element of an executives role in running the Group and represents both a commitment by the executive as well as an alignment of the executives interests with those of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee believes that share ownership by executives should be strongly encouraged, but not mandated.
The Remuneration Committee understands that, depending on personal and other circumstances, an executive may not be able to achieve the desired level of share ownership.
The Remuneration Committee believes that executives should understand the importance of share ownership in the stewardship of the Group, and both appropriate time and latitude will be provided to executives to achieve desired share ownership levels, where possible.
Share ownership levels will be reviewed annually for each executive.
Executives are encouraged, within a five-year period following the later of either the initiation of these guidelines, or their appointment or election, to attain and hold an investment position no less than the multiples of base salary set forth below.
The following are the guideline share ownership levels for the Executive Directors: Chief Executive Officer: 2 x Base Salary Chief Financial Officer: 1.5 x Base Salary All shares beneficially owned by an executive excluding unexercised vested Stock Options or SARs count towards achieving these guidelines.
The Remuneration Committee reviews share ownership levels for each executive on an annual basis.
The Committee will discuss with each Executive Director their plans for share ownership on a regular basis: the CEO will discuss with each of the remaining executives their plans for share ownership on a regular basis.
5 Pension and other benefits The Groups policy is to ensure that pension benefits are competitive in the markets in which Shire operates.
Shire contributes 30% of the CEOs annual salary to a Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan SERP and 401 k Plan in the US.
The SERP is an unfunded defined benefit scheme: the benefits are payable to certain senior US employees as lump sums on leaving the Groups employment or earlier due to death, disability or termination.
The amount of benefit is based on the value of notional contributions adjusted for earned investment returns as if they were invested in investments of the employees choice.
In the UK, Shire operates a defined contribution scheme.
The Group contributes 25% of salary towards pension benefits for the CFO.
In addition to salary, the Executive Directors receive certain benefits in kind, principally a car or car allowance, life insurance, private medical insurance and dental cover.
These benefits are not pensionable.
Service contracts The Remuneration Committee continues to believe that Executive Directors service contracts should be for a rolling term and, for UK contracts, incorporate notice periods of twelve months.
The Remuneration Committee also believes that the Group should retain the right to make a payment in lieu of notice to a Director.
The contracts contain obligations on the Executive Directors in respect of intellectual property, together with post-termination restrictions.
The Remuneration Committees view is that, in the event of early termination, Executive Directors should be treated fairly but paid no more than is necessary.
Moreover, there should be no element of reward for failure.
74 Directors remuneration report continued The Executive Directors contracts of employment, which were revised following consultation with some of the Groups major shareholders in 2003, are dated March 10, 2004 in the case of Mr Russell and March 12, 2004 in the case of Mr Emmens.
Both agreements were revised on November 21, 2005 to provide for Shire plc being established as the new holding company for Shire.
Mr Russells contract requires him to give the Group twelve months notice and expires on him reaching 65.
Mr Emmens contract requires him to give the Group, in certain circumstances, six months notice and no age is specified for retirement.
The Group is required to give Mr Russell twelve months notice of termination, other than if termination is for cause, whereas it is not obliged to give Mr Emmens any notice.
If Mr Emmens contract is terminated without cause the Group is required to pay him one years salary and the cash equivalent of one years pension, car and other contractual benefits.
In the event of termination of employment within twelve months of a change of control, the amount payable in respect of each of Mr Emmens and Mr Russell is one years salary and the cash equivalent of one years pension, car and other contractual benefits.
Any incentive payable is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and is capped at the contractual maximum incentive.
The amount of incentive payable upon termination of employment in any other circumstances, other than for cause, is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and is capped at the contractual target incentive.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman Each Non-Executive Director is paid a fee for serving as a Director and additional fees are paid for membership or chairmanship of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Chairman of the Group receives an inclusive fee.
Fees are determined by Executive Directors and the Chairman, with the exception of the Chairmans fee which is determined by the Remuneration Committee and confirmed by the Board.
Fees are benchmarked against Non-Executive Director fees of comparable companies.
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are not performance-related.
Details of fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in 2007 are set out in the table below.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to join the Groups pension scheme.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group share schemes or other employee benefit schemes and no options have been granted to Non-Executive Directors in their capacity as NonExecutive Directors of Shire plc.
On the merger of the Group with BioChem Pharma Inc in 2001, options were granted to The Hon.
James Grant, a former Executive Director who stepped down in 2007, in replacement for Mr Grants BioChem Pharma options.
The grant of these replacement options and the original BioChem Pharma option grant were made on the same terms as applied to other employees at the time, including that these options are not subject to any performance conditions.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for a term of two years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed for one year terms and, in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors following the expiry of their term of appointment is subject to Board approval.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation for loss of office.
75 Directors remuneration report continued Details of the unexpired terms of the letters of appointment and notice periods are as follows: Director Date of appointment Date of term expiry Notice period Dr James Cavanaugh March 24, 2007 March 23, 2008 3 months Dr Barry Price January 25, 2008 January 24, 2009 3 months Robin Buchanan July 30, 2007 July 29, 2008 3 months David Kappler April 5, 2006 April 4, 2008 3 months Patrick Langlois November 11, 2007 November 10, 2009 3 months Kate Nealon July 27, 2006 July 26, 2008 3 months Dr Jeffrey Leiden January 1, 2007 December 31, 2008 3 months David Mott October 31, 2007 October 30, 2009 3 months The fee policy structure for Non-Executive Directors, effective January 1, 2008, is presented in the table below.
1 2008 Board membership annual basic fees Chairman of the Board inclusive of all committees $ 590,295 Senior Non-Executive Director inclusive of Non-Executive Director fee $ 130,065 Non-Executive Director $ 105,052 Committee Membership Fees Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee Chair $ 40,020 Remuneration Committee Chair $ 25,013 Nomination Committee Chair $ 25,013 Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee member $ 20,010 Remuneration Committee member $ 15,008 Nomination Committee member $ 10,005 1 Denominated in sterling and translated into $ at the average exchange rate prevailing in 2007.
Related party transactions Details of transactions relating to Dr James Cavanaugh, The Hon.
James Grant, a former Non-Executive Director, who is a retired partner and Chair Emeritus of a Canadian law firm with which the Group incurred professional fees during the year and with Dr Francesco Bellini, another former Non-Executive Director, are given in the Directors Report on page 41.
Performance graph The graphs below set out the TSR for the three and five years ending December 31, 2007.
The graphs compare the performance of a hypothetical 100 holding of Shire plcs shares with that of a holding of shares in the FTSE 100 index excluding financial institutions and with a holding in a group comprised of the following pharma companies: Novo Nordisk, Schering AG, Merck Serono, Altana, UCB, Lundbeck, Forest Labs, Allergan, Sepracor, Cephalon, Watson, Biovail, King, Valeant and Medicis.
This comparator group is a blend of US and UK companies with sector, size, complexity and international characteristics similar to those of the Group.
The Group is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and consequently, for the purpose of the graphs which are set out below, we have selected the FTSE 100 Index excluding financial institutions as the appropriate index.
These comparisons will also be used to determine achievement of performance conditions relating to the Portfolio Share Plan.
76 Directors remuneration report continued Three Year Historical TSR Performance: Change in Value of a Hypothetical 100 Holding Over Three Years 250.0 200.0 150.0 100.0 50.0 0.0 2004 2005 2006 2007 3 Years Shire TSR 3 Years Ex-Financials FTSE 100 TSR 3 Years Comparator Group TSR Source: Datastream Five Year Historical TSR Performance: Change in Value of a Hypothetical 100 Holding Over Five Years 350.0 300.0 250.0 200.0 150.0 100.0 50.0 0.0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Shire TSR Ex-Financials FTSE 100 TSR Comparator Group TSR Source: Datastream 77 Directors remuneration report continued Other remuneration The Group believes there are benefits to Executive Directors participation at the Board level at other companies, including cross-industry and cross-company exposure and the added perspective of outside views.
It is therefore the Groups policy to allow Executive Directors to take up Non-Executive positions at other companies and retain associated earnings as long as such appointments are expressly permitted by the Board of Directors.
Mr Emmens was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc during 2004 and was appointed a Director of Incyte Corporation in 2006.
In this capacity he was paid $53,500 and $29,971 respectively in 2007, which he will retain.
Mr Russell is a Non-Executive Director of The City of London Investment Trust plc and its associated companies, The City of London European Trust Limited, The City of London Investments Limited and The City of London Finance Company Limited.
In this capacity, he was paid 20,000 $40,020 equivalent in 2007, which he will retain.
Audited information Aggregate Directors remuneration The total amounts for Directors remuneration were as follows: 2007 2006 $000 $000 Emoluments 6,846 5,969 Money purchase pension contributions 542 532 Gains on exercise of share options 4,442 390 11,830 6,891 78 Directors remuneration report continued Directors emoluments NonCash cash benefits benefits Total Total Salary Incentive Fees in kind in kind 2007 2006 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Executive i vii - 1,156 2,084 421 Matthew Emmens - 3,661 3,177 ii viii 781 1,016 - 28 8 1,833 Angus Russell 1,704 Total Executive 1,937 3,100 - 449 8 5,494 4,881 Non-Executive i Dr James Cavanaugh - - 530 - - 530 423 iii Dr Barry Price - - 136 - - 136 134 i The Hon.
ii Salary and benefits in kind paid in Sterling and translated into $ at the average exchange rates for the year.
Incentive payable in Sterling and translated at the exchange rate at the end of February 2007. iii Fees paid in Sterling and translated into $ at the average exchange rates for the year.
iv Paid in Euros and translated into $ at the average exchange rate for the service period.
v Dr Leiden was appointed a Non-Executive Director on January 1, 2007. vi Mr Mott was appointed a Non-Executive Director on October 31, 2007 vii Mr Emmens incentive was split 64% receivable in cash, 36% receivable in deferred shares.
viii Mr Russells incentive was split 61% receivable in cash, 39% receivable in deferred shares.
ix Mr Grant left the Board in May 2007. x Mr Nordmann left the Board in December 2006.
Cash benefits in kind represent expense allowances.
Non-cash benefits in kind consist of private medical insurance, life insurance and fuel allowance.
Details of the exercise of share options are disclosed below.
Non-Executive Director remuneration is to from the date of resignation appointment.
79 Directors remuneration report continued Directors pension entitlements The following Directors are members of money purchase schemes.
Contributions made by the Group not included in emoluments above in respect of 2007 were as follows: 2007 2006 Name of Director $000 $000 347 Matthew Emmens 361 195 Angus Russell 171 542 532 Directors shareholdings Directors who held office at the end of the year and to the date of signing had interests in the share capital of the Group as follows all interests are beneficial : 2007: number of 2006: number of ordinary shares ordinary shares Name of Director Dr James Cavanaugh 412,849 412,849 Matthew Emmens 19,222 18,938 Angus Russell 17,219 1,882 Dr Barry Price 31,350 31,350 Robin Buchanan 7,500 7,500 David Kappler 10,000 10,000 Patrick Langlois Nil Nil Dr Jeffrey Leiden Nil Nil Kate Nealon 2,251 2,251 Nil Nil David Mott Directors share options Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Group granted to or held by the Directors.
Directors and employees have been granted options over ordinary shares under the Shire plc 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Parts A and B 2000 Executive Scheme, the Shire Pharmaceuticals Executive Share Option Scheme Parts A and B Executive Scheme, the Shire plc Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme, the Shire plc Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan and the BioChem Stock Option Plan BioChem Plan.
Details of options exercised during the year are as follows: 80 Directors remuneration report continued Market price Gains on Exercise at exercise exercise Number of price date 2007 Director Scheme options $'000 The Hon.
Notes i Options granted under this scheme are subject to performance criteria and cannot be exercised in full, unless Shire plcs ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period.
If Shire plcs share price increases at a compound rate of 14.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, 60% of the options may be exercised.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three years, they are thereafter tested quarterly by reference to share price growth over the extended period.
If the share price does not meet these conditions at any time, none of the options granted become exercisable.
On February 28, 2000, the Remuneration Committee of the Board exercised its powers to amend the terms of Part B of the Executive Share Option Scheme so as to include a cliff vesting provision.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the Executive Scheme.
ii Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees.
Employees may enter into three or five-year savings contracts.
iii Options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any option granted prior to August 2002, if Shire plcs ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, the option becomes exercisable in full.
If it increases by at least 14.5% per annum over the same three-year period, 60% of the options granted become exercisable.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three-year measurement period, they will thereafter be tested quarterly by reference to compound annual share price growth over an extended period.
The performance criteria were reviewed in 2002 to ensure the criteria reflected the market in which Shire operates.
Given Shires development, it was considered appropriate that an earnings per share based measure should be adopted in place of share price growth targets.
The performance criteria are based on real growth in the diluted earnings per share reported in 82 Directors remuneration report continued the Groups Form 10-K under US GAAP, adjusted to ensure a consistent basis of measurement, as approved by the Remuneration Committee, including the add back of significant one time items option EPS.
Therefore, the performance criteria were amended so that an option would become exercisable in full if Shire plcs option EPS growth over a three year period from the date of award exceed the UK Retail Prices Index RPI for the following tranches of grants: Options with a grant value of up to 100% of salary RPI plus 9% Directors, RPI plus 15% Between 101% and 200% of salary RPI plus 15% Between 201% and 300% of salary RPI plus 21% Over 301% of salary RPI plus 27% The RPI based earnings per share performance criteria applied to options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme from August 2002.
After consultation with certain institutional shareholders, the Group decided that, for options granted under the scheme from 2004 onwards, the retest of the performance condition, if Shire plcs option EPS growth falls short of the minimum annual average percentage increase over the three year period from grant, would be changed.
The performance condition will be retested once only, therefore, at five years after the grant.
Hence the level of option EPS growth in the next two years needs to be consequentially higher to meet the test.
In December 2006 the Remuneration Committee exercised its powers to amend the performance conditions for options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme which had not vested.
The RPI based growth rate was replaced with an equivalent fixed growth rate based on historical and forecast inflation.
Under Part B of the scheme, six weeks prior to the expiration date, any options that have not become exercisable at an earlier date, automatically vest without reference to the performance criteria.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme.
iv Following the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. on May 11, 2001, the BioChem Stock Option Plan was amended such that options over BioChem Pharma Inc. s common stock became options over ordinary shares of Shire plc.
All BioChem Pharma Inc. options, which were not already exercisable, vested and became exercisable as a result of the acquisition.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the BioChem Stock Option Plan.
v Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
Following approval by shareholders at the AGM held on June 20,2007 the 2007 Shire plc Employee Stock Purchase Plan was adopted on similar terms to the predecessor plan save that participants agree to save for a period up to 27 months, rather than a fixed 27 months, as set by the Remuneration Committee.
The offering period set for plan grants in 2007 was 12 months.
vi Details of the Portfolio Share Plan and vesting criteria are set out in Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
The market price of the ordinary shares at December 31, 2007 was 11.49 and the range during the year was 10.39 to 13.10.
The market price of the ADSs at December 31, 2007 was $68.95 and the range during the year was $61.66 to $79.52.
Long Term Incentive Plan The following award, granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan lapsed during the 2007 and no payment was made under it as the performance criteria were not met at the maturity date: Actual Initial award performanceDate of Director Date of award made related award maturity i March 20, 2007 Matthew Emmens March 20, 2003 80,960 Nil i Angus Russell March 20, 2003 44,667 Nil March 20, 2007 Notes i The performance criteria attaching to awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan are detailed above.
