THE DIRECTORS REmUNERATION REPORT The Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in it considers offers the Committee a valuable perspective as a accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations substantial shareholder, in ensuring the strategy to align executive 2002 and the relevant requirements of the Financial Services interests with those of shareholders is properly weighed against the Authority FSA.
The disclosures contained in this report that are overall quantum of remuneration and the cost to shareholders.
The specified for audit by the Directors Remuneration Regulations Committee consulted with the Chief Executive on its proposals for are covered in the scope of the Independent Auditors Report on the other Executive Director and senior management, and received page 50.
A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the administrative assistance from the Company Secretary.
The Audit forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company has complied Committee is consulted as deemed appropriate in setting and throughout the period with the provisions relating to Directors assessing the fulfilment of targets based on financial terms.
remuneration as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and set out in the Combined Code the Code.
The Company Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte was independently retained by has applied the principles set out in Code provisions and in the Committee as advisors and provided advice on executive Schedule A to the Code as described below.
remuneration in terms of relevant current market practice and developments in best practice guidance, and in particular on the reMuneration coMMittee testing and setting of performance criteria for incentive plans.
The independent Non-Executive Directors who serve on the The original appointment of advisors resulted from a tender Remuneration Committee are Mr Peter Kingston Chairman, process and alternate advisors are considered from time to time.
Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Martin Roberts.
After careful Deloitte also provided audit services to the Group, as set out in consideration, including with regard to tenure, each member has Note 9 to the financial statements and described more fully in the been determined by the Board to be independent in character and Corporate Governance Report on pages 36 to 41.
The advisors judgement as described more fully in the Corporate Governance terms of reference restrict the provision of certain services in Report on pages 36 to 41.
All members are independent of order to maintain auditor independence, and the scope and value management and free from any conflicts of interest arising from of services to the Group is under continuous review.
Advice is cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the developed with use of established methodologies and the advisors Companys business.
No member has any personal financial are not involved in the decision-making process.
Advisory partners interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters delegated and staff have no involvement in audit, and are not involved in the to the Committee.
No Director plays a role in deciding his own preparation of audited information.
Additional information regarding the Committee is contained in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 36 to 41. reMuneration Policy The policies described in this report have been applied throughout The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with 2007.
Whilst these policies are envisaged to be consistently applied in the full Board a broad remuneration policy that is aligned with the the following and subsequent years, the Committee has an ongoing Companys business strategy in the creation of shareholder value.
process for monitoring its policies, including its arrangements for Within the context of that policy, the Committee is responsible performance based pay, against evolving market practice and relevant for setting the total remuneration packages of the Executive guidance.
Any proposed change would only be implemented following Directors and officers of the Group.
The Committee also monitors a consultation, review and approval process deemed appropriate to the remuneration practices and trends throughout the Groups such change.
internationally based workforce, including in particular for senior staff who contribute most significantly to achieving the Companys The Directors believe that a uniquely qualified and motivated strategic aims.
Additionally, the Committee is responsible for executive management is vital to the effective management of the setting the remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman.
The Companys international portfolio and the successful execution of Committees recommendations and decisions are developed in the Companys stated strategy of building shareholder value.
It is the full consideration of the Code, institutional guidelines and evolving Committees objective to attract and retain high calibre executives market practice.
through remuneration which is competitive with that offered in comparable businesses and is appropriate to those individuals In discharging its duties during the year, the Committee consulted positions, experience and value to the Company.
The Committee with the other Non-Executive Directors, and received full Board aims to design remuneration packages with a significant short approval for its proposals.
In particular, the Committee has sought and long term performance-related element linking appropriate, advice as it considers appropriate from Mr Rui fide Sousa, who but significantly greater, rewards for greater achievements.
The 42 42 Governance Committee seeks to ensure performance based pay is linked to conducted in December 2007, with effect from 1 January 2008 its business strategy.
To achieve this, shorter term performance is each Executive Directors basic salary has been increased by 5%.
monitored against targets based on the Companys strategic plan.
In the longer term, performance targets are more closely linked to bonus share price performance as an indicator of the Companys success Bonus awards are considered in two levels, wherein expected in building shareholder value.
performance will result in awards in a target range of up to 50% of salary, with a stretch level providing a maximum annual cash bonus executive directors opportunity of up to 100% of salary for exceptional performance.
The Committee reviews all aspects of remuneration on an annual basis and with respect to individual and corporate performance The annual cash bonus is awarded based on individual and during the year.
These reviews are normally conducted in corporate achievements during the year towards goals based December.
The projected value and structure of the Executive on the Companys strategic plan.
Goals are set annually for Directors packages are benchmarked against competitive market each portion of the Companys portfolio aimed at achieving the ranges, taking into consideration the Groups size and complexity, specific challenges the Company faces in meeting its strategic and positioned within those ranges considering the Executive objectives.
The monitored measures for particular projects may Directors critical value to the Company and demonstrated include specified timetables for seismic, drilling and construction performance over time.
Similar benchmarking techniques are programmes, drilling success ratios, discovery targets, reserve applied to non-Board employees and the Committee monitors levels and production targets.
Portfolio objectives are set regarding senior staff packages during the review of Executive Directors progress towards potential non-core asset divestitures and new packages.
Year on year results of benchmarking are monitored for ventures.
Corporate goals, safety and environmental measures indications of potential unwarranted upward ratcheting.
and financial measures against budgeted levels are additionally established as deemed appropriate.
The specific targets set PackaGe coMPonents against these measures are considered to be commercially Executive remuneration comprises a fixed basic salary and sensitive and are therefore not set out herein.
The actual achievement eligibility to receive an annual performance based cash bonus and of each goal is ranked against a scale of expectations.
The Committee annual awards under incentive plans approved by shareholders retains discretion over the amount of bonus paid out to ensure that and designed to provide appropriate longer term incentive appropriate consideration is given to the relative importance of the opportunities.
The annual cash bonus range is structured to achievements in the year and the actual contribution of these towards provide an appropriate balance between basic salary and the furthering the Companys strategic plan.
performance related element of annual cash remuneration.
Overall packages are structured to deliver 60% of the projected value of The final measurement of 2007 performance is as yet uncertain the Directors total compensation opportunity from performance due to drilling in progress on the high profile Te Giac Den side track related elements at performance levels in the middle of the target TGD-1XST1 well, spudded in the fourth quarter as a sidetrack range, increasing to 80% at exceptional performance levels.
to the well spudded in April 2007.
Results of this well could add Executive Directors are eligible for additional benefits, including a significant achievement attributable to 2007 performance.
money purchase pension scheme contributions, a permanent Pending these results, achievements for the year provide a solid health insurance scheme, medical insurance, life assurance cover, target performance as measured against the Groups 2007 goals.
critical illness cover, travel benefits and car benefits.
A continuous exploration programme was undertaken on Block 16-1, and a six month licence extension was obtained to allow basic salary evaluation of the highly prospective, high pressure area identified Basic salary is fixed at appointment or in relation to changes in on the Block.
Benchmarks set for progressing an accelerated responsibility, and is reviewed annually.
Particular care is given in development plan for the Ca Ngu Vang field in Vietnam were fixing the appropriate salary level considering that cash bonus and achieved, and first production currently remains on target for midincentive plan awards are generally set as a fraction or multiple 2008 despite resource constraints experienced within the sector of basic salary.
Basic salary is the only element of a Directors generally.
Declaration of commerciality on Te Giac Trang was not pay which is pensionable.
Annual reviews take into consideration achieved, as efforts were refocused to resolve delays imposed advice from remuneration consultants regarding relevant current by a small field discovery on an adjoining block.
While significant market practice for salary levels and salary increases, as well progress has been made, this remains a goal to be achieved in as demonstrated performance.
Targeted drilling results in Yemen were exceeded, leading to soco international plc 42 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43 The Directors Remuneration Report continued a reserves increase, and infrastructure improvements are underway five year tsr PerforMance which are expected to increase production capability to a higher The performance graph below sets out SOCOs TSR performance maximum than originally targeted.
The terms of the potential over the past five years.
The FTSE Oil & Gas Index performance is sale announced in February 2008 demonstrates the Companys similarly set out, being a broad market index which is sector specific.
success in recognising and capturing significant upside potential IHG in the Yemen asset.
The Company added an additional licence %% interest in the Congo Basin and, although experiencing some % delays, has made steady progress in achieving the benchmark %% goals for progressing the projects in this core area to the drilling % phase.
The Thailand project has been progressed towards first %% production in 2008. '
% '%% In order to ensure awards accurately reflect the result of 2007 & % &%% performance, the 2007 bonus awards will be determined in % two tranches.
Based on measurement to date of the years % achievements against the targets set out, and in consideration of % their individual contributions, an initial bonus has been awarded to 9ZXZbWZg '%%' 9ZXZbWZg '%% 9ZXZbWZg '%% 9ZXZbWZg '%% 9ZXZbWZg '%% 9ZXZbWZg '%%, Mr Story and Mr Cagle at the policy target bonus rate of 50% of HD8D :IH: D a Vh HdjgXZ 9ViVhigZVb salary.
Pending results of the TGD-1XST1, the Committee will give consideration to an additional bonus award of up to 50%, in line with the maximum policy bonus rate.
ltiP Participation in the Companys LTIP is discretionary and incentive Plans determined in consideration of corporate and individual The Committee currently operates one scheme, the Long Term performance.
Awards are subject to limits on individual participation Incentive Plan LTIP.
The SOCO 1997 Company Share Option Plan whereby the market value, as measured at the date of grant, terminated on 25 April 2007 without prejudice to the subsisting of shares subject to awards made in any financial year will not rights of participants.
The Committee will give consideration to the exceed 200% of the executives total earnings in that year, except introduction of a new scheme at an appropriate time, which would in exceptional circumstances on appointment.
The Committee, be submitted for shareholder approval.
however, has a policy of operating within the more restrictive annual limit of 200% of the executives base salary.
An employee benefit trust currently holds sufficient SOCO shares to satisfy all shares conditionally awarded under the LTIP, as more At the date of grant of an award, the Committee sets appropriate fully described in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Decisions performance criteria to be measured on the third anniversary of governing acquisitions of shares into the trust are considered and the date of grant and deemed fulfilled to the satisfaction of the approved by the full Board.
The aggregate number of new issue Committee before the award can be exercised or vest.
LTIP awards shares which may be subject to awards under all relevant executive are considered in the course of the annual review in December, share schemes shall not exceed 5% of the ordinary share capital which is intended to put in place an opportunity for regular annual of the Company in any rolling 10 year period.
Accordingly, at 31 vesting based on performance targets achieved over successive December 2007, 3.6 million new issue shares 2006 3.6 million three year periods.
Award levels will take into account the nature of may be subject to awards, of which there is available capacity performance targets to ensure that projected total compensation remaining of 0.5 million shares 2006 0.5 million.
opportunity at assumed levels of share price growth is appropriate in the prevailing market.
Further details of incentive share awards are set out in the table on page 47 and in Note 27 to the financial statements.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the Companys Charges which have been reflected in the Groups income relative total shareholder return TSR provides the primary basis statement in respect of incentive schemes are set out in Note 27 for determining the value generated for shareholders over the to the financial statements.
longer term, and is also the primary indicator of the Companys 44 44 Governance overall corporate performance.
Accordingly, performance targets Pre-float oPtion scheMe for awards to date have been set with reference to the Companys The Directors hold share options under the SOCO-sub relative TSR performance over a three year period against a range Unapproved Share Option Plan which were granted prior to of comparator companies in the oil exploration and production the 1997 listing of the Companys shares on the London Stock sector.
Additionally, prior to the vesting of an award the Committee Exchange and are fully vested and exercisable.
No additional gives consideration, in light of any exceptional circumstances grants are available under the plan.
These options were set to during the relevant three year period, to whether the TSR results lapse on 15 March 2008 under terms of the Plan as amended in are consistent with the achievement of actual underlying financial consideration of legislative changes.
After further consideration and operational performance of the Company.
For awards to of the Companys frequent and extended close periods, the date, this shall primarily be assessed, on the basis of appropriate Board has exercised its power to make a further administrative external advice, in terms of the additions to and the management amendment to the Plan to more closely align with the relevant and quality of the Groups oil and gas reserves in view of goals legislative changes.
Accordingly, the options will lapse on the later set by the Board.
Once the Committee determines performance of 15 March 2008 or 30 days following the end of any close period criteria have been met, there may additionally be a requirement that for trading in effect at that date.
awards be held for a specified retention period prior to exercise or receipt.
Pension contributions Contributions are paid into two money purchase pension schemes Measurement of the Companys performance criteria is carried in respect of the Executive Directors.
Annual contribution levels out with reference to external data sources provided by the are set at 15% of salary.
The Company monitors its pension Committees remuneration advisors to ensure its independence.
commitments, including Executive Directors arrangements, in light If the TSR ranking exceeds the median, 30% of the award will of pension legislation and taxation in the relevant jurisdictions.
No become capable of vesting, with full vesting only for performance changes are currently contemplated.
The actual vesting percentage will be calculated on a pro rata basis between ranking positions to more other Policies closely reflect SOCOs actual TSR performance relative to the next With prior approval of the Board, Executive Directors are allowed to highest and lowest comparators.
accept non-executive appointments to other boards and to retain the associated directors fees.
Under this policy Mr Story has been The comparator group comprises Aminex, Burren Energy, released to serve on the board of Cairn Energy PLC and Mr Cagle has Cairn Energy, Dana Petroleum, Dragon Oil through 2006, First been released to serve on the boards of Vostok Energy Limited and Calgary from 2007, JKX Oil and Gas from 2007, Paladin Dominion Petroleum plc.
Mr Story and Mr Cagle retained associated Resources through 2004, Premier Oil, Ramco Energy through fees for 2007 in the amount of 50,000 and 60,000, respectively.
2006, Regal Petroleum, ROC Oil from 2005, Salamander Energy from 2007, SOCO, Sterling Energy from 2007, Tullow Oil and The Executive Directors have held a meaningful shareholding in the Venture Production.
Company which they have continued to build since its founding in 1997.
Accordingly, and giving due respect to the Executives In consideration of corporate and individual performance and giving demonstrated actions, the Board has not set this requirement out consideration to the Companys TSR result for 2007, discretionary in policy.
An appropriate policy regarding shareholding targets will awards were granted to the Executive Directors over shares with be given consideration upon any prospective Executive Director a market value of 190% of base salary.
of the Companys performance against the comparator group for awards granted in 2004, 100% of the awards have been declared non-executive directors vested.
The Committee is satisfied that the performance criteria The remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman is set by the measurement has resulted in a vesting level appropriate to the Committee and approved by the Board.
The remuneration for underlying performance of the Company.
other Non-Executive Directors is recommended by the Chief soco international plc 44 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45 The Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive and the Chairman and determined by the Board as directors contracts a whole.
Remuneration levels are set based on outside advice Executive Directors contracts are for an indefinite period and are and the review of current practices in other companies, giving terminable by either party on giving one years notice which may consideration to the time commitment and responsibilities of the be satisfied with a payment in lieu of notice.
In consideration of increasing demands and fee levels in a duty to prevent the requirement to make payments that are recent years generally, SOCO has given particular attention to not strictly merited, and endorses the principle of mitigation of benchmarking data to ensure its fees remain appropriate.
Based damages on early termination of a service contract.
Any payment on these factors, the annual fees for services as Directors payable on early termination will be assessed on the basis of the particular to the Non-Executive Directors remained unchanged, except for circumstances, but in any event will not be in respect of any period those fees payable to the Chairman which were set at 135,000 beyond the one year specified by contract.
The Non-Executive with effect from 1 January 2008.
The fees have been set within the Directors appointments are terminable at the will of the parties but aggregate limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association are envisaged to establish an initial term of three years after which and approved by shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are not they will be reviewed annually.
The dates of the Directors service eligible for participation in the Companys incentive schemes or contracts or letters of appointment, which may not coincide with their pension schemes.
initial date of appointment, are set out in the Directors Report on page 32. audited inforMation Directors emoluments 1 2 2 Fees basic Benefits Annual Total Total salary in kind bonus 2007 2006 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Executive Directors E Story 419 21 209 649 810 R Cagle 314 30 157 501 622 Non-Executive Directors R fide Sousa 125 125 33 P Maugein 70 3 P Kingston 65 65 60 O Barbaroux 36 36 30 R Cathery 36 36 30 E Contini 36 36 30 J Norton 36 36 30 M Roberts 36 36 30 J Snyder 36 36 30 Aggregate emoluments 1,139 51 366 1,556 1,775 1 Benefits include medical insurance, life assurance cover, critical illness cover and car benefits.
2 Pending results of the TGD-1XST1 well currently drilling, the Committee will give consideration to an additional bonus award of up to 50% of salary in line with the maximum policy bonus rate, as described more fully in the Bonus section of this report.
Such amounts will be disclosed in next years accounts.
3 Emoluments receivable by Mr Peter Kingston are paid to Peter Kingston & Associates.
No Directors received amounts as compensation for loss of office as a Director during the year.
Awards are vested and are capable of exercise.
See page 45 in respect of the expiry date of the awards.
2 Additional details regarding the LTIP are set out within this report.
LTIPs were exercised on 18 December 2007 at a market price of 20.32, resulting in a gain of 1.0 million and 0.7 million on exercise by Mr Ed Story and Mr Roger Cagle, respectively.
Those awards set out as exercisable prior to 1 January 2008 are in the form of nil price options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
They have been tested against the relevant performance schedules attached to the awards and the balance held as at 31 December 2007 has been determined to be fully vested.
The date of expiry of awards may be delayed in consideration of Model Code restrictions.
Those awards set out as potentially exercisable from a date subsequent to 31 December 2007 are in the form of contingent rights to acquire ordinary shares in the Company at no cost.
Vesting of the awards and delivery of shares remains conditional upon performance criteria and consideration of Model Code restrictions.
3 Options may not be exercised without appropriate Board consents, the Board having given consideration to any requirements on participants to maintain a specified minimum number of shares under option or equivalent shareholding requirements.
4 Conditional awards were made on 12 December 2007 when the market price of the ordinary shares was 21.11. soco international plc 46 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47 The Directors Remuneration Report continued The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2007 was government relationships to negotiate and secure commercial rights 22.00 and the range during the year to 31 December 2007 was in oil and gas projects.
In the 2004 Annual Report and Accounts the 11.91 to 23.95. form of participation to be utilised was set out to be through equity shareholdings in which the Investor Group holds a minority interest Directors transactions in special purpose entities SPEs created to hold such projects.
The Pursuant to a lease dated 20 April 1997, Comfort Storyville a company shareholding terms have been modelled after the SOCO Vietnam wholly owned by Mr Ed Story has leased to the Group office and Ltd arrangement which was negotiated with third parties.
Quantics storage space in Comfort, Texas.
The lease, which was negotiated on minority holdings in the subsidiary undertakings which principally an arms length basis, has a fixed monthly rent of $1,000.
affected the profits or net assets of the Group are shown in Note 16 of the financial statements.
The Group has entered into a consulting Under the terms of an acquisition approved by shareholders in 1999, agreement, which the parties have agreed to extend through July the Company and its strategic shareholder group Investor Group, 2008, wherein Quantic is entitled to a consulting fee in the amount including Quantic Limited Quantic in which Mr Rui fide Sousa has of $50,000 per month in respect of such services as are required to a non-notifiable share interest, jointly participate in certain regions in review, assess and progress the realisation of oil and gas exploration which the Investor Group utilises its long established industry and and production opportunities in certain areas.
Directors interests 1 Number of Shares Number of Options Number of Warrants 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Executive Directors Ed Story 1,567,988 1,569,893 2,743,234 2,753,974 2 Roger Cagle 751,026 716,246 2,389,506 2,401,086 Non-Executive Directors 3 Rui fide Sousa 770,076 728,924 1,509,201 1,549,853 Peter Kingston 4,000 4,000 Olivier Barbaroux 20,000 20,000 Robert Cathery 100,000 100,000 Ettore Contini 60,000 60,000 John Norton 115,000 115,000 Martin Roberts 5,000 5,000 4 John Snyder 200,000 200,000 1 Details of Options granted to or held by the Directors in respect of their services as a director, including any relevant conditions of exercise, are set out in the table of Directors incentive share awards.
2 Mr Roger Cagles interests include 281,583 Shares 2006 266,773 and 859,449 2006 865,409 Options held by Ms Cynthia Cagle, the Options having been granted to her in respect of her services to the Group.
3 In addition to 48,652 2006 7,500 Shares held personally, Mr Rui fide Sousas interest is held by Palamos Limited, which is owned by a trust company whose potential ultimate beneficiary is the family of Mr fide Sousa.
Palamos Limited holds 721,424 2006 721,424 Shares, 55,336 2006 55,336 Warrants at an exercise price of 0.55 per Share, 925,187 2006 925,187 Warrants at an exercise price of 0.60 per Share and 528,678 2006 528,678 Warrants at an exercise price of 0.65 per Share.
4 Mr John Snyders interest is held by Snyder Family Investments, L. P. which is owned by Mr Snyder and other partnerships and trusts of which Mr Snyder and members of his family are owners and or beneficiaries.
48 48 Governance The Directors who held office at 31 December 2007 had interests all of which were beneficial except as noted below in the ordinary shares of the Company Shares, warrants to subscribe for the same number of Shares Warrants and contingent rights or options to acquire Shares Options at 31 December 2007 as shown in the table above.
Whilst the Executive Directors, as potential beneficiaries, are technically deemed to have an interest in all Shares held by the SOCO Employee Benefit Trust Trust, the table on page 48 only includes those Shares which are potentially transferable to the Directors and their families pursuant to Options which have been granted to them under incentive schemes facilitated by the Trust.
Details of the Trust and its holdings are set out in Note 25 to the financial statements.
There have been no other changes in the interests of the Directors between 31 December 2007 and the date of this report.
No Director held any other interests in any Group companies.
aPProval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 March 2008 and signed on its behalf by: Peter Kingston Remuneration Committee Chairman soco international plc 48 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49
