THE BOARD AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES 27 Directors remuneration report for the year ending 24 February 2007 This is the report of the Remuneration Committee on behalf Executive Directors remuneration policy of the Board.
Tesco has a long-standing policy of rewarding talent and experience.
We also seek to provide incentives for delivering Remuneration Committee high growth and high returns for shareholders.
The Committee The Remuneration Committee the Committee is governed believes that a significant proportion of total remuneration by formal Terms of Reference.
They are reviewed annually and should be performance-related and delivered largely in shares are available from the Company Secretary or can be viewed at to closely align the interests of shareholders and Executive www.
In determining the balance between the fixed and variable elements of the Executive Directors remuneration Composition of the Committee The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-executive packages, the Committee has regard to policy and also Directors.
The members of the Committee are Mr C L Allen market practice.
Chairman of the Committee, Mr R F Chase, Mrs K Cook, The remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other Mr E M Davies and Dr H Einsmann.
No member of the key executives is tailored to emphasise the delivery of strong Remuneration Committee has any personal financial interest year-on-year earnings growth as well as sustained performance in the matters being decided, other than as a shareholder, nor in the longer term.
Long-term performance is rewarded any day-to-day involvement in running the business of Tesco.
through delivery of shares and short-term performance Mr J M Lloyd is Secretary to the Committee.
Mr D E Reid, through a combination of cash and an element of compulsory Non-executive Chairman and Sir Terry Leahy, Chief Executive deferred shares.
This ensures continued emphasis on strong of the Group, both attend meetings at the invitation of the annual performance combined with long-term executive share Committee except when their own remuneration is being ownership, providing a strong link between the incentives discussed.
The Committee is supported by the Group Personnel received and shareholder value delivered.
A diagram illustrating function and has continued to use the services of Deloitte the balance between fixed and variable reward is shown later & Touche LLP as an external, independent advisor.
& Touche LLP also provided advisory services in respect of Tesco operates in a highly competitive and rapidly changing corporate tax planning, share schemes and international retail environment.
Business success depends on the talents taxation to the Group during the year.
Members attendance of the key team, but outstanding business performance at Committee meetings is listed in the Directors Corporate comes from teamwork.
Tesco has a stable and successful Governance report on page 24. management team and building and retaining that team at The role of the Committee senior levels within Tesco is important to our continued success.
The Committees purpose is to: We believe our incentives should support the continued determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration progress within the existing business, the strengthening policy for the Chairman and Executive Directors: of our returns in the international business and the creation ensure the level and structure of remuneration is designed of significant new businesses, e. g. the US.
The Committee has to attract, retain, and motivate the Executive Directors reviewed the current remuneration arrangements in light of needed to run the Company: and these requirements and concluded that a rebalancing of incentives is required.
monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
In order to introduce these changes we intend i to establish a Group New Business Incentive Plan which focuses on longThe Committee also ensures that the remuneration term business development four to seven years into the future : relationship between the Executive Directors and senior ii to introduce an additional element into our current threeexecutives of the Company below this level is appropriate.
year Performance Share Plan which targets the performance of In particular, any exceptional remuneration arrangements our existing international business: and iii to create a new plan for senior executives are advised to the Committee.
for our US executive team to ensure that we can attract great Activities of the Committee talent to build our US business.
Participation in the various The Committee normally meets at least four times a year and elements will be governed by the Remuneration Committee circulates minutes of its meetings to the Board.
During the and individual executives will be awarded incentives under the financial year, the Committee met seven times.
The rolling elements which are most relevant to their sphere of responsibility.
schedule for the Committee includes: a review of overall The Group CEO, Sir Terry Leahy, has responsibility for delivering remuneration arrangements: an overview of best practice: continued success of our core business, developing our Executive salary and total remuneration benchmarking: international business and also laying the foundations of major Chairmans remuneration: consideration of the relationship new businesses.
He will therefore be eligible to receive an of reward between Executive Directors and senior managers: award under the Performance Share Plan which will be focused determining the level of awards and grants to be made under on improving international ROCE.
the Group incentive plans: agreeing targets for the forthcoming year: considering feedback from shareholders: and an annual review of its own effectiveness.
28 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Directors remuneration report continued He will also be eligible to participate in the new business Further details on the proposed New Business Incentive Plan arrangements comprising i a New Business short-term and the proposed US Long-Term Incentive Plan are provided bonus for the next three years of 50% of salary based on in the Shareholders Circular.
The proposed changes to the achievement of milestones for new business development: and Performance Share Plan and the Annual Bonus arrangements ii subject to shareholder approval, a one-off award under the are described in more detail later in this report.
The one-off award under the New Business Incentive Plan will only be paid out in full if both Total remuneration stretching new business performance targets over the period The total remuneration levels of Executive Directors are 2011 to 2014 are met and Group and international ROCE reviewed annually by the Committee.
The Committee considers targets are also met over the periods 2007 08 to 2011 12. external independent remuneration surveys to ensure it has The US venture is currently the most developed new business proper regard to competitive market practice.
We are conscious initiative with significant opportunity to generate shareholder of the problems involved in paying unjustified amounts value.
The concept and format of the new US business were and therefore monitor carefully the basic salary and total both created by Sir Terry Leahy, and his continued leadership remuneration that each Director receives.
The Executive and drive are critical to the success of this start-up business.
Directors total remuneration package comprises, in varying Payment of his award under the New Business Incentive Plan degrees, the following elements excluding the proposed new will therefore be initially focussed on the new US business: incentive plans which are subject to shareholder approval : however, the Remuneration Committee will have flexibility base salaries determined by the responsibilities, skills to consider and include other new business development and experience of the individual against a benchmark opportunities within the proposed structure.
determined by reference to other large retailers, major FTSE Mr T J R Mason, the US CEO, is responsible for delivering 100 companies and international comparator companies: the successful roll-out of the US business.
He will therefore annual bonuses paid part in cash and part in shares with be eligible to participate in a US short-term bonus plan and, a compulsory deferral of the share element for three years: subject to shareholder approval, receive a one-off award Performance Share Plan based on stretching ROCE targets: under the proposed US Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Payouts performance-related share option awards via the under the short-term annual bonus in the start-up phase will Discretionary Share Option Plan open to all senior be subject to performance against strategic and financial managers: milestone targets.
Payouts under the US Long-Term Incentive Plan will be based on the delivery of a strong profitable US benefits which comprise car benefits, life assurance, business for Tesco shareholders and that success will be disability and health insurance and staff discount : and measured by a combination of EBIT and ROCE targets.
will be earned over the four years 2011 to 2014 and will be Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the in the form of Tesco PLC shares.
Members of the US senior Companys all-employee savings related share option scheme management team will also participate in the US incentive SAYE, Shares in Success and Buy As You Earn scheme on arrangements.
the same terms as all other UK employees.
The remaining Executive Directors have responsibility both The diagram below shows the targeted balance of fixed for delivering continued success of our core business and and performance-related elements for different levels of developing the operating model for our international business.
performance excluding the proposed new long-term They will therefore be eligible to receive an award under the incentive plans which are subject to shareholder approval.
Performance Share Plan which will be focused on both improving Group and international ROCE.
Fix Fix Fixe ed element ed element d element P P Perf erf erformanc ormanc ormance-r e-r e-relat elat elated ed elements ed elements elements Base salary Short-term performance Long-term performance Deferred Performance Cash bonus Share options share bonus share plan c. 15%-33% depending on individual c. 15%-33% depending on individual c. 67%-85% depending on individual c. 67%-85% depending on individual inc incent entiv ive arr e arrangements and perf angements and performanc ormance e inc incent entiv ive arr e arrangements and perf angements and performanc ormance e THE BOARD AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES 29 Basic pay In order to reward early stage success against financial and Basic pay is designed to attract and retain talented individuals.
strategic milestones for new business ventures, the potential It needs to reflect individual capability, and any changes in opportunity under the share element of the short-term bonus responsibilities as the Company faces new opportunities and will also increase from 100% to 150% of salary for the Group challenges.
As the Company continues to diversify into new CEO, Sir Terry Leahy with his potential cash bonus opportunity product areas and services as well as expanding internationally remaining at 100%.
The share awards will continue to be it seeks to reflect this in the benchmarks that are used.
We deferred for three years before release.
Awards will be subject aim to reflect salary levels at the top performing retailers, to performance conditions which measure the successful progress of the US business including leadership and delivery the leading FTSE companies and ensure consideration is given to international competitors in order to attract the best people of financial and strategic objectives, and factors such as site and maintain excellent performance.
We also take into account acquisitions, store openings, agreed capital expenditure, pay conditions throughout the Company in deciding annual infrastructure, early turnover and financial milestones for salary increases.
returns from the first two years of store openings.
Annual cash bonus and deferred annual bonus Performance Share Plan The Company operates an annual bonus scheme which is The Performance Share Plan PSP provides the opportunity delivered part in cash and part in shares.
The Remuneration to earn rewards for achieving superior long-term performance.
Committee has typically made awards of up to 100% of salary By ensuring a focus on longer-term business success and paid in cash at the end of the year and up to 100% of salary encouraging the Executive Directors to build up a shareholding paid in shares with compulsory deferral for three years.
The in the Company the Plan further aligns the interests of share element is based on achievement of stretching earnings shareholders and Executive Directors.
per share EPS targets, an assessment of shareholder returns The rules of the PSP allow awards to be made over shares up TSR and specific corporate objectives.
The cash element is to 150% of salary.
In the year ended 24 February 2007, awards earned through achievement of EPS growth targets and were made over Tesco PLC shares equal to 100% of salary.
progress on specific corporate objectives.
The Committee sets These awards will vest together with reinvested dividends performance targets annually and confirms achievement of subject to the achievement of ROCE targets.
The first 75% performance and awards to be made.
of the award will vest on a straight-line basis at the end of the We cannot disclose future targets for reasons of commercial three-year performance period, with 25% vesting for baseline sensitivity.
By way of illustration of the approach to targetperformance and the full 75% vesting for maximum setting, the corporate objectives are based on our balanced performance against target.
The target in respect of the first scorecard, the Steering Wheel, described in more detail on 75% of the 2006 07 PSP award is achievement of 13.4% page 8.
Corporate objectives for the awards made in the ROCE based on profit before interest less tax at the end financial year 2006 07 included increasing sales from new of the three-year performance period in 2008 09. space: specific profit targets for international businesses The remaining 25% of the award will vest for superior Return and for retailing services: like-for-like sales growth and the on Capital performance.
The Committee agreed that it was development of the non-food business: focus on developing appropriate to exercise judgement on whether vesting should trading models internationally and in non-food: enhancing occur to encourage Executives to make investment decisions talent management and capability: and embedding the new in the long-term interests of the business without being Community Plan and implementing international communityunduly influenced by the impact on the ROCE target.
determining whether some, or all, of the remaining 25% of The Committee considers TSR performance against the FTSE the award will vest, the Committee will take into account a 100 and a comparator group of international retailers that number of factors including: includes Ahold, Carrefour, J Sainsbury, Metro, Morrisons, the level of ROCE achieved: Safeway Inc, Target and Walmart.
the expected ROCE for additional and existing capital Following the Remuneration Committees consideration of investment: the various performance measures in respect of the 2006 07 whether capital spend is in line with strategic objectives award, the Executive Directors have been awarded 100% of and balances short and long-term investment needs: the annual cash bonus and 100% of the deferred shares sales growth and underlying profit growth: and element of the annual bonus.
whether this reflects other developments in the marketplace.
As mentioned above, in order to motivate short-term performance and delivery of success in the start-up phase of If the Committee exercises its judgement to allow some, the US business, the Remuneration Committee has agreed to or all, of the remaining 25% of these PSP awards to vest, increase the potential short-term bonus opportunity for the US we will describe in the Directors Remuneration Report those CEO, Mr T J R Mason, from 100% to 150% of salary in cash factors taken into account in determining the level of the and by an equal amount in deferred shares.
Mr T J R Masons award which would vest.
total short-term opportunity will be subject to a combination of Group and US-specific performance conditions.
30 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Directors remuneration report continued To incentivise and reward delivery of higher returns from The Committee remains highly confident that the share option invested capital outside the UK but excluding the USA, the plans remain in the best interests of shareholders as they Committee has decided that, going forward, it will make PSP provide a clear, simple incentive arrangement for a large group awards within the Plan limits of a further 50% of salary to each of senior management, including Executive Directors, and they of the Executive Directors, except the US CEO, Mr T J R Mason.
reward increases in absolute shareholder value.
These incremental awards will vest subject to the achievement Share ownership guideline of specific targets based on international ROCE, sales growth Executive Directors are normally expected to build and and underlying profit growth.
maintain a shareholding with a value at least equal to their basic salary.
New appointees will typically be allowed around The PSP rules currently require any vested shares to be retained for a further 12 months.
The Committee has concluded that it three years to establish this shareholding.
Full participation would be appropriate to discontinue this requirement going in the PSP is conditional upon this.
forward as it believes that the structure of the package which Summary of remuneration elements delivers a significant proportion of the package in shares, All awards made to Executive Directors under the Annual coupled with the shareholding requirement and actual levels Bonus, PSP and all options granted under the Discretionary of shareholding, ensures appropriate levels of ongoing Share Option Plan are subject to the satisfaction of executive shareholding.
The Committee will be seeking performance conditions.
If performance is lower than the shareholder approval to remove this requirement for 2007 08 maximum targets, the short-term bonus and long-term and future awards.
In recommending the Share options proposed changes this year the Committee took into account Options over shares with a value of 200% of salary are granted the Groups growing global leadership, its position as one of to the Executive Directors.
Options are granted with an exercise the rising companies at the top of the FTSE 100 and increasing price equal to the market value at the date of grant and any competition from private equity in the sector.
It has also gain is therefore dependent on increasing the share price reviewed the performance conditions for each of the incentive between the date of grant and exercise.
Vesting of the options arrangements against the Groups business strategy and is dependent on the achievement of performance conditions, concluded that they provide a set of comprehensive and robust with the first 100% subject to the achievement of EPS growth measures of managements effort and success in creating of at least RPI plus 9% over three years and the balance shareholder value.
A summary of the elements of the package vesting for achieving EPS growth of at least RPI plus 15%.
is set out in the table below.
The proposed New Business There is no retesting of performance.
Incentive Plan for the Group CEO and the proposed US LongTerm Incentive Plan for the US CEO have not been included Share options are an important part of the incentive framework as they are subject to shareholder approval.
for hundreds of senior managers within Tesco.
The Committee recognises that some companies are moving away from share options as a result of accounting changes and has again considered the appropriateness of retaining this scheme.
Part of remuneration Performance measure Purpose Base salary Individual contribution to the business success To attract and retain talented people Annual cash bonus Earnings per share and specified Motivates year-on-year earnings growth up to 100% of salary corporate objectives and delivery of business priorities Additional potential of up to 50% Objectives relating to early-stage progress Incentivises entrepreneurial spirit and early stage of salary for US CEO in establishing the US operations progress of US business Annual deferred share element Total shareholder return, EPS and specified Generates focus on medium-term targets and up to 100% of salary corporate objectives by incentivising share price and dividend growth, ensures alignment with shareholder interests Additional potential of up to 50% Objectives relating to early-stage progress in Incentivises entrepreneurial spirit and early stage of salary for Group CEO and US CEO establishing new business ventures for the Group progress of US business CEO and relating to the successful start-up of the US operations for the US CEO Performance Share Plan Group performance: Group ROCE Assures a focus on long-term business success up to 150% of salary: International performance: International ROCE and shareholder returns 100% for Group performance: and The Committee will also take account of sales 50% for international performance growth and underlying profit growth in determining levels of vesting US CEO not eligible for the 50% relating to international performance Share options EPS relative to retail price index Incentivises earnings growth and Executive Director shareholding THE BOARD AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES 31 Other elements Over the last few years, pension contributions by our Executive Shares In Success The Group operates a profit sharing Directors have been increasing progressively.
In 2006 07, the scheme Shares in Success for the benefit of UK level of contribution was 5% of salary and this will increase in employees including Executive Directors.
The scheme July 2007 to 7% which will bring Executive Directors in line is available to employees with at least one years service with senior managements contribution levels.
at the Groups year end and is recognised as a powerful Further details of the pension benefits earned by the Directors incentive and retention tool for all employees.
Shares in can be found on page 34. the Company are allocated to participants in the scheme on a pro-rata basis to base salary earned up to HMRC Performance graph approved limits currently 3,000 per annum.
The amount The graph below highlights the Groups total shareholder return of profit allocated to the scheme is determined by the performance over the last five financial years, relative to the Board, taking account of Company performance.
This index has been selected to Save as You Earn Since 1981, the Group has operated provide an established and broad-based comparator group of a HMRC approved savings-related share option scheme retail and non-retail companies of similar scale to Tesco.
SAYE for the benefit of employees including Executive Directors.
Under this scheme, employees save up to a limit Tesco of 250 on a four-weekly basis via a bank building society 170 with an option to buy shares in Tesco PLC at the end of a three or five-year period at a discount of up to 20% of 140 the market value.
There are no performance conditions FTSE attached to SAYE options.
110 Buy As You Earn Since January 2002, the Group has 80 operated the partnership shares element of a HMRC approved share investment plan for the benefit of 50 employees including Executive Directors.
Under this Feb 01 Feb 02 Feb 03 Feb 04 Feb 05 Feb 06 Feb 07 scheme, employees save up to a limit of 110 on a fourTOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR weekly basis to buy shares at market value in Tesco PLC.
TSR is the notional return from a share or index based on share price movements and declared dividends Pensions The retention of key management is critical to the future success of the business and to the growth of shareholder value.
Service agreements Pension provision is central to our ability to foster loyalty and The Executive Directors all have rolling service agreements retain experience which is why Tesco wants to ensure that the with no fixed expiry date.
These contracts are terminated on Tesco Plc Pension Scheme is a highly valued benefit.
notice of 12 months by the Company and six months notice All Executive Directors are members of the Tesco PLC Pension by the Executive.
Scheme which provides a pension of up to two-thirds of If an Executive Directors employment is terminated other than base salary on retirement, normally at age 60, dependent on pursuant to the notice provisions in the service agreement or service.
The Final Salary Scheme is now closed to new entrants by reason of resignation or unacceptable performance or but has been replaced by a different defined benefit pension conduct the Company will pay, by way of liquidated damages, scheme which accumulates each year and is based on career a sum calculated on the basis of basic salary and the average average earnings.
annual bonus paid for the last two years.
No account will be Since April 2006, following implementation of the regulations taken of pension or any other benefit or emolument.
contained within the Finance Act 2004, Executive Directors Termination payments will be subject to mitigation.
This means will be eligible to receive the maximum pension that can be that liquidated damages amounts will be paid in instalments to provided from the registered pension scheme.
The balance of permit mitigation and earlier payment will be made based on any pension entitlement is delivered through an unapproved long service in line with Tesco policy which respects and rewards retirement benefits scheme URBS.
The URBS SURBS is loyalty.
If the termination occurs within one year of retirement, secured by using a fixed charge over a cash deposit in a the termination payment will be reduced accordingly.
This provides no greater security than To reflect his length of service with Tesco and the early age of under the registered scheme.
In particular, in the unlikely his appointment as CEO, Sir Terry Leahys service agreement event that the registered scheme were to be wound up with provides for his full pension entitlement to become available a deficit, members would be no better off under the SURBS on retirement on or after his 57th birthday.
arrangements than those paid out of the registered scheme.
Under these circumstances, to ensure parity, members of the SURBS would receive the same proportion of their total entitlement as those in the registered scheme.
32 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Directors remuneration report continued The Committee has agreed that new appointments of The Remuneration Committee determines the Chairmans Executive Directors will normally be on a notice period of 12 remuneration, having regard to time commitment and months.
The Committee reserves the right to vary this period packages awarded to Chairmen of other companies of a similar to 24 months for the initial period of appointment and for size and complexity.
Mr D E Reid, Non-executive Chairman, the notice period to then revert to 12 months.
The service received an annual fee of 540,000 this year and has the agreements are available to shareholders to view on request benefit of a company car.
Compliance Outside appointments In carrying out its duties, the Committee gives full Tesco recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited consideration to best practice.
The Committee is constituted to become Non-executive Directors of other companies.
Such and operated throughout the period in accordance with the Non-executive duties can broaden experience and knowledge principles outlined in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services which can benefit Tesco.
Subject to approval by the Board, Authority derived from Schedule A and B of the Combined Executive Directors are allowed to accept Non-executive Code.
The auditors report, set out on page 43, covers the appointments and retain the fees received, provided that these disclosures referred to in this report that are specified for audit appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
by the Financial Services Authority.
This report also complies Executive Directors biographies can be found in the Annual with disclosures required by the Director Remuneration Report Review on page 47 and fees retained for any Non-executive Regulations 2002.
Details of Directors emoluments and Directorships are set out below.
interests, including executive and savings-related share options, are set out on pages 33 to 40.
Company in which Fee retained by Non-executive the Directorin Director Directorship held 2006 07 000 Mr C LAllen Mr P A Clarke Whitbread Group PLC 45 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Mr A T Higginson BSkyB 53 Note: As stated in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006, Mr T J R Mason resigned from G Cap Media PLC on 14 March 2006.
Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment setting out their duties and the time commitment expected.
The letters are available to shareholders to view from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman meets with each Non-executive Director separately to review individual performance.
All Nonexecutive Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years at the Annual General Meeting and their appointment can be terminated by either party without notice.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Committee after considering external market research and individual contribution.
Non-executive Directors receive a basic fee of 55,000.
To reflect the increased workload and responsibilities of chairing the Audit and Remuneration Committees, the fees received by the Chairs of each of these committees have increased to 15,000 in addition to their basic Non-executive fee from 1 March 2007.
The fees received by Non-executive Directors for membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees have increased to 8,000 for each committee, also from 1 March 2007.
The fee received by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, Mr R F Chase, who is also the Deputy Chairman, has increased to 118,000 from 1 March 2007.
THE BOARD AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES 33 Tables 1 to 8 are audited information.
Benefits and allowances were paid to Mr T J R Mason in line with the Tesco approach to expatriate transfers including one-off payments for relocation, and travel and localisation costs including schooling.
For future years this will be reduced to a non-pensionable salary supplement and a more focussed package of benefits which recognises ongoing expatriate costs including travel, medical and tax-related costs and services.
Mr T J R Masons short-term cash bonus includes cash compensation payments in respect of accumulated share rights from existing plans paid in cash as a result of his move to the US.
b With the exception of Mr T J R Mason, benefits are made up of car benefits, chauffeurs, disability and health insurance, staff discount and gym leisure club membership.
c The long-term bonus figures shown in table 1 relate to the additional 12.5% enhancements allocated in May 2006 on short-term and long-term awards under the old bonus scheme.
The long-term bonuses awarded on 20 July 2006 under the Performance Share Plan were awarded in the form of nil cost options with the exception of Mr T J R Mason who received an unfunded promise to deliver shares.
Details of this award are shown in table 6. d Miss L Neville-Rolfe was appointed on 14 December 2006.
The figures in table 1 are calculated from the date of her appointment.
34 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Directors remuneration report continued Table 2 Pension details of the Directors Transfer Transfer value value Transfer Increase Transfer of total of total value Age at Total Increase in accrued value accrued accrued of total Increase 24 February accrued in accrued pension of previous pension at pension at accrued in transfer 2007 pension at pension during the column at 25 February 25 February pension at value less Years of 24 February during the year net of 24 February 2006 old 2006 new 24 February Directors Company 2007 a, b year inflation 2007 basis c basis c 2007 contributions service 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Sir Terry Leahy d 50 28 627 81 62 1,136 6,715 7,531 9,350 1,816 MrRBrasher 45 20 241 58 51 542 1,554 1,806 2,559 752 MrPA Clarke 46 32 295 36 27 309 2,365 2,735 3,364 627 MrA THigginson 49 9 212 39 33 419 1,806 2,065 2,711 644 MrTJ RMason 49 25 322 39 29 374 2,942 3,365 4,132 765 Miss L Neville-Rolfe e 54 9 125 47 46 690 n a 1,192 1,885 693 MrD TPotts 49 34 326 40 30 387 3,051 3,487 4,281 792 a The accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, based on service to 24 February 2007. b Some of the Executive Directors benefits are payable from an unapproved pension arrangement.
This is secured by a fixed and floating charge on a cash deposit.
c The method used for calculating transfer values was revised during the year.
Changes in financial conditions and improving mortality rates have meant that the previous basis for calculating transfer values, used since 2004, is not considered to produce suitable values.
Transfer values at 25 February 2006 have been restated using the new method for comparative purposes.
d Sir Terry Leahy is entitled to retire at any age from 57, with an immediate pension of two-thirds of base salary.
e Miss L Neville-Rolfe was promoted to the Board on 14 December 2006.
The increase in accrued pension shown is based on the increase since her date of promotion.
Similarly, the transfer value as at 25 February 2006 is based on the value of her pension as at the date of promotion.
All transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The share price at 24 February 2007 was 446.0 pence.
The share price during the 52 weeks to 24 February 2007 ranged from 316.25 pence to 446.75 pence.
b Miss L Neville-Rolfe was appointed on 14 December 2006.
The figures above are from the date of her appointment.
c Gains made on Save As You Earn share options are not included above.
These are detailed in table 5.
No options lapsed in the year.
The market price at exercise is shown in Table 3. b Miss L Neville-Rolfe was appointed on 14 December 2006.
No options have been granted or exercised from the date of her appointment.
Options are not subject to performance conditions.
All options are exercisable from 1 February in the year which is six years from the year of grant.
All options expire six months from their exercise date i. e. on 1 August of the relevant year.
Mr R Brasher exercised his options on 14 February 2007 when the market price was 437.0 pence.
All other Directors exercised options on 1 February 2007 when the market price was 419.5 pence.
No shares have been awarded or options granted since the date of her appointment.
Those awards detailed were made in the form of restricted shares under the senior management Performance Share Plan.
c The Long-term Performance Share Plan replaced the Long-term Executive Incentive Scheme.
The first award under the new plan was made in 2004.
All awards except those described in notes a and b above have been made in the form of nil cost options.
d The awards are subject to performance conditions based on Return on Capital Employed targets.
e The awards are increased to reflect dividends equivalents as each dividend is paid with the exception of the 2004 award on which no dividends accrue.
f No options were exercised or lapsed and no shares were released in the year under this Plan.
The first award under the new plan was made in 2005. b The awards are subject to performance conditions based on TSR, earnings per share and corporate objectives.
c Mr T J R Masons 2006 award was made in the form of conditional shares which were released on 16 February 2007 at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee at a market price of 444.0 pence.
All other awards have been made in the form of nil cost options.
d The awards are increased to reflect dividends equivalents as each dividend is paid.
e No options lapsed in the year under the Executive Incentive Plan.
These shares can not be retained for an additional three-year period and enhanced.
Miss L Neville-Rolfe was appointed on 14 December 2006.
The figures above show those shares released since the date of her appointment.
b This Plan has been replaced by the Performance Share Plan and Executive Incentive Plan.
The last awards under this Plan were made in May 2004. c Long-term awards from 2002 are classed as four-year cycles and Short-term awards from 2004 are classed as two-year cycles as no election for enhancement is possible yet.
Long-term awards can be enhanced from the 4th year, extending the cycle to seven years.
Short-term awards can be enhanced from the 2nd year, extending the cycle to five years.
Between 25 February 2007 and 16 April 2007, 343 shares were purchased by Executive Directors as part of the Buy As You Earn scheme.
b Options to acquire ordinary shares shown above comprise options held under the Executive Share Option schemes, Discretionary Share Option Plan, Save As You Earn scheme, and nil cost options under the Performance Share Plan and Executive Incentive Plan.
c Miss L Neville-Rolfe was appointed to the Board on 14 December 2006.
The balance for last year for Miss L Neville-Rolfe is shown as at the date of her appointment.
