Directors remuneration report Year ended 31 December 2007 Dear Shareholder Introduction I am pleased to present this years Remuneration This report has been prepared in accordance with the Committee report.
requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, which set out requirements for the This year, we are proposing to make several changes to disclosure of directors remuneration and also in accordance the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
This with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial follows a full policy review by the Committee, which took Services Authority.
particular account of Tullows outstanding performance over the last few years.
This has led to Tullows recent promotion The Regulations require the auditors to report to the into the FTSE 100 for the first time.
The Committee believes Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors that it is particularly important that the remuneration policy Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, helps to recognise the achievements of management in the part of the report that has been subject to audit has been contributing to this success, and to ensure that they continue properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act to be incentivised to deliver Tullows growth strategy and 1985 as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report the generation of outstanding returns to shareholders.
The report is therefore divided into separate sections to disclose the audited and unaudited information.
The main changes which we are making are: Unaudited information We are seeking shareholder approval to increase the maximum normal limit under the Performance Share Remuneration Committee Plan PSP to 200% of salary and the exceptional The members of the Remuneration Committee are Clare circumstances limit to 300% of salary.
The performance Spottiswoode Chairman, David Bamford, Steven McTiernan, conditions will remain largely unchanged, with the primary Pat Plunkett and David Williams.
Rohan Courtney was a conditions remaining wholly based on Tullows relative member of the Committee until 31 December 2007.
The stretch performance threshold Committee met five times during the year.
for full vesting of awards will, however, be made more The main responsibilities of the Committee include: challenging, reflecting the higher rewards available: Determining and agreeing with the Board the Increasing the annual bonus potential to 150% of remuneration policy for the Chief Executive, salary, with any bonus earned in excess of 75% of Chairman, Executive Directors and senior executives: salary being paid in shares and deferred.
The targets under the bonus are being simplified so that all the Approving the design of, and determining targets for, Executive Directors will now be subject to the same an annual performance-related pay scheme for the targets.
This also reflects their shared responsibility Executive Directors and senior executives: for the Companys success: and Reviewing the design of share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders and determining the Executive Directors will now be required to build and maintain a higher shareholding than previously of annual award policy to Executive Directors and senior executives under existing plans: and 200% of salary worth of shares.
Within the Remuneration Committees review, it was our Within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the intention to ensure that the remuneration packages of the remainder of the remuneration packages principally Executive Directors were made sufficiently competitive for a comprising salary and pension for each Executive company of Tullows size, but without significantly increasing Director and senior executive.
Therefore, the basic salary The full terms of reference for the Committee are available increase excluding two role-specific increases explained on the Companys website.
below for the Executive Directors has been set at 5% for 2008.
The Chief Executive and other relevant executives are invited A resolution to approve the new maximum award limits to attend meetings of the Committee but do not take part in under the PSP will be tabled at the forthcoming Annual any decision affecting their own remuneration.
The Company General Meeting, as well as a resolution to approve this Chairman, Pat Plunkett, also absents himself during Directors Remuneration Report.
I hope that you will support discussion relating to his own fees.
The Committee has these resolutions.
However, please feel free to contact me by previously appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP email at: remunerationchair@tullowoil.
com should you wish to who remain its independent remuneration advisers.
They also discuss any aspect of this report.
provide technical advice to the Company in connection with the operation of its share incentive arrangements.
A statement outlining the business relationship with New Bridge Street Consultants can be viewed on the Investor Relations section of Clare Spottiswoode the Companys website.
The Committee also consults with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Companys major investors and investor representative groups 11 March 2008 as appropriate.
57 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report: Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Taking into account Tullows promotion to the FTSE The Companys policy is to maintain levels of remuneration 100, the Committee feels that it is critical to ensure so as to attract, motivate and retain Executive Directors and that management is rewarded competitively against senior executives of the highest calibre who can contribute companies of a broadly similar size.
It also believes their experience to the Companys operations.
The elements of that this should be achieved without significantly the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior increasing fixed pay, but via greater levels of management are base salary, annual bonus, taxable benefits, performance-related pay.
pension payments and participation in the Companys share The key outcomes of the Committees review, in relation incentive arrangements.
A significant element of the potential to the Executive Directors, are set out below.
remuneration package is, therefore, performance-linked.
Executive Directors remuneration When determining the total remuneration of the Executive Base salary Directors and senior management, the Committee Following the most recent review, the base salary of each predominately takes into account the remuneration Executive Director with effect from January 2008 is: practices adopted by UK listed companies of a similar market capitalisation and overseas complexity to Tullow.
% Increase since Director 2008 Salary 2007 Practice within other oil and gas companies is also considered Aidan Heavey 640,500 5% although the availability of relevant data is limited due to there being few other UK listed companies in the sector of a Tom Hickey 409,500 5% comparable size to Tullow.
Finally, in setting the remuneration Graham Martin 362,250 5% policy for the Executive Directors, regard is also given to pay Paul McDade 362,250 14.6% practices elsewhere in the Group.
Angus McCoss 362,250 14.6% Matthew ODonoghue 294,000 5% As explained in the introduction to this report, the Remuneration Committee has recently undertaken a In setting the above salaries, the Committees general policy comprehensive review of the senior executive remuneration was to keep percentage increases broadly in line with those policy at Tullow.
In carrying out this review, the Committee across the rest of the Company and the market as a whole considered a number of relevant issues including: and ensure that a significant proportion of executive Tullow has achieved outstanding growth in recent remuneration is linked to performance.
However, in respect years by implementing the strategy formulated by of Paul McDade and Angus McCoss, their increases reflect its management team.
This is demonstrated by its their criticality to the business, particularly given its current performance relative to both the Oil & Gas sector and the growth strategy, and also the fact that when they joined the FTSE 250 of which Tullow was, until recently, a member.
Board, their salaries were set at a level to provide scope for Over the three years to 31 December 2007 the Company an above average increase as they gained experience at achieved a total shareholder return TSR of over 350%, Board level and progressively increased their contribution using the same basis of calculation as applies under the to Board discussion and debate.
PSP, ranking it at the top amongst a group of comparable Following the 2008 salary increases, the salaries of the Oil & Gas peers and second within the FTSE 250 Executive Directors are around or below the lower quartile of excluding Investment Trusts : benchmarking data for UK listed companies of a similar size As a result of this growth, in September 2007 Tullow and international scope.
was promoted to the FTSE 100 index for the first time.
Annual bonus Since then, it has continued to perform strongly, and Each Executive Director is entitled to participate in the th as at 11 March 2008 it is ranked 60 within the index Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of each financial by market capitalisation : year of the Company.
The Committee believes that the remuneration policy 2007 Executive Annual Bonus Scheme followed to date has a number of key strengths which In 2007, a bonus of up to 100% of salary could be earned.
have supported the achievement of Tullows strategic More particularly, for 2007, the bonus arrangements for goals.
These include i a high proportion of the package the Executive Directors were structured as follows: being performance-linked ii a significant element of incentive pay being directly related to Tullows TSR Aidan Heavey, Tom Hickey and Graham Martin: performance, and iii the payment of a material Up to 33.33% of salary could be earned subject to the proportion of incentive pay being in the form of Tullow achievement of relative TSR performance targets against shares.
All these factors create a very strong alignment the same Oil & Gas comparator group used for the PSP with shareholders.
The Committee is keen to ensure that awards made in 2007 see below, with upper quartile these key strengths of the existing remuneration policy performance required for this part of the bonus to be are retained: and earned in full.
Over the relevant period, Tullow was placed in the top quartile of the comparator group: 58 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 A further 33.33% of salary could be earned for the 2008 Executive Annual Bonus Scheme achievement of absolute TSR targets, with a 15% Following the Committees review of the remuneration policy improvement in TSR required for this part of the bonus for the Executive Directors, several changes will be made to to be earned in full.
Tullows TSR growth over the year the Annual Bonus Scheme for 2008.
A summary of the key changes is as follows: to 31 December 2007 was 66%: and From 2008, the maximum annual bonus potential for the The final 33.34% of salary could be earned based on how the Committee considered that the Company had Executive Directors, for the achievement of outstanding performance, will be 150% of salary: performed over the year as against certain Companyspecific key performance indicators such as production For meeting target performance, a bonus of 60% of salary performance, reserve replacement, exploration success, will be payable i. e. 40% of the maximum : health and safety and overall financial stability.
Any bonus earned in excess of 75% of salary will be paid Paul McDade and Angus McCoss: in shares and deferred for three years: 50% of their potential bonus could be earned based All the Executive Directors will be subject to the same on the achievement of individual and non-financial performance targets which will include two thirds of targets relating to their specific discipline or field the bonus being linked to Tullows TSR performance.
of responsibility: More specifically: 20% could be earned on the achievement of certain One third will be based on TSR relative to the same Oil corporate key performance indicators: and & Gas group as will be used to measure performance 30% could be earned on relative TSR performance for the PSP awards it is proposed to make in 2008 see below no bonus will be paid unless median against the comparator group above.
performance is delivered, with the full bonus for Matthew ODonoghue: upper quartile performance: 50% of his potential bonus could be earned based on One third will be based on growth in absolute TSR, with the achievement of individual and non-financial targets the full bonus payable if Tullows TSR grows by 15% relating to his specific field of responsibility: and over the year: and 50% could be earned on the achievement of certain One third will be based on certain corporate key corporate key performance indicators.
performance indicators designed to reflect major In terms of the key performance indicators in 2007, the strategic and financial targets specific to the Company.
Committees assessment of their achievement ranged from The Committee also has broad discretion before finalising 60% to 70% in respect of certain operational targets to 100% any award level on the above parameters, to take into in the case of key exploration targets.
In certain cases, the account such other factors and circumstances reflecting Committee recognised that other corporate priorities had the general financial condition and the performance of affected performance against targets.
the Company as it considers appropriate.
Based upon that performance, and in particular reflecting The Committee believes that these changes to the Annual another year of excellent TSR performance, Aidan Heavey, Bonus Scheme will help to ensure that the Executive Tom Hickey, Graham Martin, Paul McDade and Angus McCoss Directors are competitively rewarded against companies received bonus amounts for 2007 equating to 90% of base of a similar size to Tullow, but only for the achievement of salary.
In the case of Matthew ODonoghue the Committee a common set of challenging, clear and transparent targets determined his bonus award for 2007 as 70% of salary.
which are closely aligned with the interests of shareholders.
For 2007, to align the interests of Executive Directors and Pension and other benefits shareholders, the portion of any bonus amount above 60% The Executive Directors do not participate in the Company of base salary was required to be deferred into shares under pension plan.
Each Executive Director is entitled to receive the terms of the related Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP a payment of 10% of his base salary into his private pension adopted by the Board in 2005.
Shares awarded under this plan scheme which increases to 15% at age 50, as well as 30 days will normally vest following the end of the period of three annual leave, permanent health insurance, private medical financial years commencing with that in which the award is insurance and life assurance benefits.
Awards made under the DSBP are disclosed in the reimburses the Executive Directors in respect of all expenses Deferred Share Bonus Plan table on page 65. reasonably incurred by them in the proper performance of their duties.
59 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report: Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Share incentive arrangements The performance targets will continue to measure Performance Share Plan PSP TSR relative to two comparator groups with equal Currently, under the PSP, senior executives are eligible to weightings.
30% of awards will continue to vest for be granted conditional awards of rights over whole shares median performance, an approach the Committee worth up to 150% of salary each year 200% in exceptional believes continues to be appropriate, given the below circumstances.
Awards vest under the PSP subject to a TSR market salaries payable to the Executive Directors.
based performance condition under which the Companys However, the performance required for full vesting of TSR performance is measured over a fixed three-year period awards to Executive Directors will be raised from upper commencing on 1 January in the financial year in which the quartile to upper quintile: and award is granted i. e. with no opportunity to re-test.
Half of The comparator groups will be amended to reflect the awards made to date are subject to performance against Tullows current circumstances.
Therefore, half of the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment the award will be measured against the FTSE 100 Trusts as at the start of the performance period and the of which Tullow is now a member excluding other half are subject to performance against the following Investment Trusts, and the balance against the comparator group of international Oil & Gas companies: following Oil & Gas companies: Addax Petroleum Nexen Inc Addax Petroleum Niko Resources ATP Oil & Gas Noble Energy Inc Anadarko Noble Energy Inc. Burren Energy Pioneer Natural Resources Apache Corporation Pioneer Natural Resources Cairn Energy Pogo Producing Company Cairn Energy Premier Oil Dana Petroleum Premier Oil Dana Petroleum Santos Forest Oil Corporation Santos Forest Oil Corporation SOCO International Lundin Petroleum AB Venture Production Lundin Petroleum AB Talisman Energy Inc. Newfield Exploration Company Nexen Inc. Venture Production In line with best practice, a common currency approach The changes to the Oil & Gas comparator group reflect is adopted for calculating TSR in respect of the above a selection of companies that the Committee believes international group of companies.
most accurately mirrors Tullows current complexity For each portion of the award, vesting is as follows: and operations.
Companys ranking All the other key features of the PSP including the underpin in comparator group Vesting percentage relating to Tullows financial and other performance will Below median 0% remain unchanged.
The Committee continues to believe that Median 30% a TSR performance condition is appropriate as it encourages Upper quartile 100% the Executive Directors to generate returns to shareholders Intermediate performance Pro rata between 30% in excess of both the market generally and a group of sector and 100% peers, and is a robust reflection of managements success in achieving the strategic targets required to ensure the In addition, no award will vest unless the Committee Companys continued growth.
considers that both the Companys underlying financial performance and its performance against other key Share Ownership Guidelines factors e. g. health and safety over the relevant period From 2008, to further align their interests with shareholders, is satisfactory.
the Executive Directors will be required to retain at least 50% of the shares that vest under the PSP and DSBP after selling Proposed changes to the PSP from 2008 sufficient shares to pay tax liabilities until they have built up a As part of its review of the remuneration policy for the shareholding worth at least 200% of base salary with existing Executive Directors, and taking into account its overall holdings taken into account.
This has been increased from the objective that a significant proportion of the overall 2007 level of 100% to reflect the increased rewards which will remuneration package should be based on the performance now be available in shares if performance targets are met.
of the Company, the Remuneration Committee is seeking shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM to increase Share Option Scheme the normal maximum annual limit under the PSP from Before the introduction of the PSP in 2005, Executive Directors were eligible for grants of options under the 2000 Executive 150% to 200% of salary with a revised exceptional circumstances maximum limit of 300% of salary increased Share Option Scheme the 2000 Scheme.
Exceptional circumstances would include, for does not intend to grant further options to Executive Directors under the 2000 Scheme.
During the year, options were granted example, an award to attract a new Executive Director to the Company.
In addition, the following changes are proposed to to substantially all employees of the Group under the 2000 the operation of the PSP from 2008: Scheme, other than those senior executives who were granted awards under the PSP.
While conditional awards of rights over whole shares to the Executive Directors in 2008 are expected to be worth 200% of salary, in subsequent years, the Committee may elect to vary the allocation taking into account the circumstances which prevail at the time subject always, in normal circumstances, to the 200% of salary limit : 60 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Allemployee Share Incentive Plans Performance graph Executive Directors may also participate, on the same terms as The graph below shows Tullows TSR against both the FTSE other employees, in the Tullow Oil UK and Irish Share Incentive 100 and FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts over the fivePlans.
These are all-employee plans that have been set up in year period from 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2007, over both the UK and Ireland which enable employees to make which period Tullow outperformed the FTSE 100 by 506% contributions out of salary up to prescribed limits each month, and the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts by 415%.
The which each quarter are used by the Plan trustees to acquire relevant indices are set to 100 at the beginning of the period.
Tullow Oil shares Partnership shares.
The Company makes These indices have both been shown because for the majority a matching contribution to the trustees to acquire a matching of the financial year, Tullow was a member of the FTSE 250, number of shares Matching shares on a one-for-one basis.
but moved into the FTSE 100 from September onwards.
800 Sourcing of shares and dilution Awards under all the Companys share schemes may be 700 satisfied using either newly issued shares or shares purchased 600 in the market and held in the Tullow Oil Employee Trust.
500 Awards under the Companys discretionary schemes which 400 may be satisfied by new issue shares must not exceed the ABIs limits of 5% of the Companys issued share capital in any 300 rolling 10-year period, and the total of all awards satisfied via 200 new issue shares under all plans must not exceed 10% of the 100 Companys issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period.
0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 The Companys current intention is to satisfy awards under the 2000 Scheme via new issue shares, and awards under the PSP, Tullow Oil plc FTSE 100 FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts DSBP and all-employee Share Incentive Plans via market This graph shows the value, by the end of 2007, of 100 purchase shares.
invested in Tullow Oil on 31 December 2002 compared with As at 31 December 2007, the headroom under the Companys the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 5% and 10% limits was 5.5 million and 41.5 million Indices excluding Investment Trusts.
The other points shares respectively, out of an issued share capital plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
As at 31 December 2007, the Tullow Oil Employee Trust held Service contracts and letters of appointment 2 million shares.
Each Executive Director has entered into a service agreement Non-executive Directors fees with Tullow Group Services Limited dated 2 September 2002 A Committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and in the case of Aidan Heavey, Matthew ODonoghue, Graham Executive Directors sets the remuneration of non-executive Martin and Tom Hickey: dated 29 March 2006 in the case of Directors.
The fees paid are set at a level to attract individuals Paul McDade and dated 18 April 2006 in the case of Angus with the necessary experience and ability to make a significant McCoss.
Aidan Heavey and Matthew ODonoghue also each contribution to the Companys activities, while also reflecting entered into a service agreement with Tullow Oil International the time commitment and responsibility of the role.
Each nonLimited on 16 September 2002 on similar terms.
executive Director currently receives an annual fee of 53,000.
The terms of each of these service contracts is not fixed, Steven McTiernan currently receives an additional annual fee although each Executive Director is required under his service of 10,000 to reflect his additional responsibilities as Senior agreement to retire from service upon attaining the age of 65.
Independent Director and Clare Spottiswoode and David Each agreement is terminable by the Director on six months Williams each receives an additional annual fee of 10,000 to notice and by the Company on 12 months notice.
There are reflect their additional responsibilities as Chairman of the no specific provisions under which any Executive Director is Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively.
Each entitled to receive compensation upon the early termination non-executive Director is also entitled to reimbursement of his service agreement other than in accordance with these of necessary travel and other expenses.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in any share Each service agreement sets out restrictions on the ability of scheme or annual bonus scheme and are not eligible to the Director to participate in businesses competing with those join the Companys Pension Scheme.
of the Group or to entice or solicit away from the Group any The Remuneration Committee, with the Chairman absenting senior employees of the Group in the six-month period after himself from discussions, sets the remuneration of the the cessation of his employment.
Chairman, whose annual fee is currently 170,000.
The above reflects the Committees policy that service contracts should be structured to reflect the interests of the Company and the individuals concerned, while also taking due account of market and best practice.
Furthermore, it is the Committees policy that, in the event of early termination of a Directors service contract, the Committee will take account of the departing Directors duty to mitigate his loss when determining the amount of any compensation that is paid.
61 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report: Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Each of the non-executive Directors is engaged by the Company under the terms of a letter of appointment [dated 8 December 2005 in the case of Pat Plunkett: dated 29 June 2007 in the case of David Bamford, dated 1 March 2008 in the case of Clare Spottiswoode and Steven McTiernan and dated 31 May 2006 in the case of David Williams].
Rohan Courtney, who retired from the Board on 31 December 2007, was engaged under a letter of appointment dated 8 December 2005.
Subject to retirement, for example under the Articles of Association, the appointments are for the period to 31 December 2008 in respect of Pat Plunkett, to 30 June 2010 in the case of David Bamford, to 28 February 2011 in the case of Clare Spottiswoode and Steven McTiernan and to 31 May 2009 in the case of David Williams.
In each case, the appointment is renewable thereafter if agreed by the Director and the Board.
The appointments for each of the non-executive Directors may be terminated by either party on three months notice.
There are no arrangements under which any non-executive Director is entitled to receive compensation upon the early termination of his or her appointment.
Material contracts There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a Director of the Company was materially interested and or which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
External appointments The Board has not introduced a formal policy in relation to the number of external directorships that an Executive Director may hold.
Currently, the only Executive Directors who hold external directorships are Tom Hickey and Aidan Heavey.
Aidan is a director of Traidlinks, a charity promoting enterprise in the developed world, especially Africa.
He receives no fee for this position.
Tom has been nominated by Tullow as its representative on the board of Ikon Science Limited, a company in which Tullow has a small equity stake.
Any fees payable for his services have been waived by Tullow.
In addition, Tom is a non-executive director of PetroNeft Resources plc for which he receives an annual fee of 20,000.
These figures represent that part of the bonus required to be deferred into shares as explained on page 59.
The amounts disclosed under Taxable Benefits for Aidan Heavey include car benefits and for Angus McCoss and Paul McDade include re-location expenses paid in line with contractual obligations.
Angus McCoss was appointed as a director on 6 December 2006.
Paul McDade was appointed as a director on 29 March 2006.
Adrian Nel retired from the Board on 31 May 2006.
Rohan Courtney retired from the Board on 31 December 2007.
By a Letter of Appointment dated 23 October 2007, the Company appointed Mr Courtney as Chairman of its CSR Committee and as a Trustee of one of the Group Pension Schemes.
These appointments, under which Mr Courtney receives an aggregate annual fee of 25,000, took effect on 1 January 2008 and are terminable by Mr Courtney on three months notice, and by the Company on three months notice expiring on or after 31 December 2008.
Directors interests in the share capital of the Company The interests all of which were beneficial of the Directors who held office at 31 December 2007 were: Ordinary Ordinary shares shares 31 December 1 January Director 2007 2007 Aidan Heavey 6,000,000 6,000,000 Tom Hickey 104,070 101,560 Graham Martin 1,102,005 1,102,005 Angus McCoss Paul McDade 15,578 15,578 Matthew ODonoghue 1,889,771 1,889,771 Pat Plunkett 1,229,326 1,229,326 Rohan Courtney David Bamford 13,445 10,695 Steven McTiernan Clare Spottiswoode David Williams 5,000 5,000 Note: Other than as set out in the notes to the tables below, there have been no changes in the interests of any Director between 1 January 2008 and the date of this report.
63 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report: Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Tullow Oil UK Share Incentive Plan and Tullow Oil Irish Share Incentive Plan Details of shares purchased and awarded to Executive Directors in accordance with the terms of the Irish SIP and the UK SIP.
A brief description of the SIPs is set out on page 61.
Total Shares Partnership Matching shares held shares shares Shares held 1 Jan acquired in awarded in released 31 Dec Director Plan 2007 year year in year 2007 Tom Hickey Irish SIP 4,550 413 413 2,510 2,866 Graham Martin UK SIP 5,166 381 381 5,928 Angus McCoss UK SIP 196 381 381 958 Paul McDade UK SIP 5,166 381 381 5,928 Note: Graham Martin, Angus McCoss and Paul McDade each acquired 63 Partnership shares and were awarded 63 matching shares on 2 January 2008.
Performance Share Plan 2005 PSP Details of conditional awards over ordinary shares granted to Executive Directors for nil consideration under the PSP.
The awards of conditional shares made in 2007 equated to shares worth 150% of salary for each Executive Director based on the share price for the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
The Tullow share price on the date of grant of the awards made on 22 March 2007 was 371.5p.
Under the PSP, 50% of awards are subject to a TSR condition compared to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts and the other 50% of the award is subject to a TSR condition compared to a specific comparator group.
Full details are set out on page 60.
The PSP awards made in June 2005 reached the end of their performance period on 31 December 2007.
The Remuneration Committee determined that both parts of the relevant performance condition were met in full, as the Company was ranked in the upper quartile compared to both the relevant comparator groups, and the underlying performance of the Company was determined to be a fair reflection of the Companys TSR.
Accordingly, the Executive Directors will be eligible to receive their awards on 29 June 2008, the third anniversary of grant, subject to continued employment.
As disclosed last year, he was eligible to receive a pro-rated PSP award for his period of service relative to the total vesting period, based on performance over the whole period.
As disclosed above, the performance condition for the 2005 awards was met in full, so he will be eligible to receive 151,904 shares on 29 June 2008, the third anniversary of grant in respect of that award.
64 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP Details of awards over ordinary shares granted to Executive Directors for nil consideration under the DSBP.
The awards of shares made in 2007 equated to shares worth the amount of bonus deferred into shares for 2006 based on the share price for the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
The share price on the date of grant of the award was 396p.
Further details of the DSBP are set out in the Annual bonus section of this report on pages 58 and 59.
The Schemes under which these options were granted are: 1998 Options granted under the Tullow Oil 1998 Executive Share Option Scheme 1998 Scheme and 2000 Options granted under the Tullow Oil 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 Scheme.
No performance conditions attach to 1998 Scheme Options.
The performance condition that attaches to options granted under the 2000 Scheme requires Tullows TSR to exceed that of the median company of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts over the three-year period from the date of grant.
All these performance conditions have now been satisfied and so the options are fully exercisable.
Options shown with an exercise price denominated in Euro were granted on or before 30 April 1999 with an exercise price in IR.
On conversion of IR to Euro effective 1 January 2002, the exercise price for each such option was converted from IR into Euro by dividing the original IR exercise price per share by the fixed Irish Pound Euro conversion rate.
All options granted after 30 April 1999 were granted with an exercise price denominated in sterling.
Options are granted for nil consideration.
Options must be exercised in the currency in which the grants were made.
During 2007, the highest mid-market price of the Companys shares was 682.5p and the lowest was 349p.
Clare Spottiswoode Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 11 March 2008 66 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
