46 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors remuneration report This report on directors remuneration covers the following information: The Committee has written terms of reference which may be viewed on the Groups website.
Copies may be obtained from the Company A description of the Remuneration Committee constitution and how it Secretary.
The Committees constitution and operation, and the Companys carries out its duties: remuneration policy, are in compliance with the Combined Code on A description of UBMs policy on executive remuneration for 2008 and corporate governance.
As part of the Board effectiveness review carried subsequent years: out during 2007 the Committees performance was reviewed and considered to be satisfactory.
A summary of the terms of executive directors contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment: Remuneration policy Details of each directors remuneration earned in 2007 and awards under UBM recognises the need to attract, retain and incentivise executives with the long term incentive plans: appropriate skills and talent to manage and develop the Groups businesses in such a way as to drive the Groups strategy and deliver shareholder value.
Directors interests in UBM shares: The main principles of UBMs executive remuneration policy are: Graph illustrating UBMs total shareholder return TSR performance.
To achieve total remuneration packages that are competitive with the sector A resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the annual within which the Group operates and with the market in general: general meeting on 13 May 2008.
To provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration which rewards high levels of performance.
Base salary levels are designed to Remuneration Committee be at median while variable remuneration is linked to key measures of both The Remuneration Committee is responsible for formulating and corporate and personal performance and rewards significant recommending policy on executive remuneration.
The Committee sets the outperformance of targets: and individual remuneration packages of the executive directors and chairman and also reviews the general remuneration framework for senior executives of To incentivise and retain management and to align their interests with those the Group.
This includes overseeing the design and operation of the Groups of shareholders.
long term incentive plans and determining the basis on which awards are Variable remuneration is delivered largely through the mechanism of sharemade under these plans.
based plans, thus linking reward to share price performance.
In 2005 UBM The following independent non-executive directors served on the Committee discontinued the use of market priced share options, with a performance throughout 2007: Sandy Leitch chairman, Pradeep Kar, Jonathan Newcomb condition based on earnings per share EPS, in favour of performance shares, and Adair Turner.
In accordance with changes in the Combined Code with a TSR-based performance condition.
Having reviewed the operation introduced in 2006, Geoff Unwin, Chairman of the Board, was a member of the Groups long term incentive plans in 2007, the Committee consider of the Committee from January 2007 until he retired from the Board in that linkage to UBMs stated strategic objectives is best achieved through a December 2007.
David Levin, CEO, usually attends meetings by invitation: balanced focus on earnings and absolute share price growth, and between neither Geoff Unwin nor David Levin were present when matters relating to absolute and relative performance.
Accordingly, in 2008 and subsequent their own remuneration were discussed.
The Committee met formally on years the Committee proposes to use a combination of market priced three occasions during 2007: details of attendance by Committee members EPS-based share options and TSR-based performance shares for executive are shown on page 54.
The principal activities carried out by the Committee directors and senior executives.
The fair value of awards to be made in 2008 is during 2007 were: expected to be no greater for each participant than the fair value of awards previously made under the Performance Share Plan, and the balance of the Reviewing the executive directors remuneration packages, benchmarking award between share options and performance shares will be at the discretion them against UBMs TSR comparator group and other companies of similar of the Committee.
size to UBM: Remuneration components Reviewing executive directors performance during 2006 and determining awards under the 2006 bonus plan: The various elements of executive directors remuneration packages are described below.
Setting maximum bonus award levels and targets for executive directors for 2007: Base salary In determining base salaries, the Committee benchmarks salary levels for Reviewing achievement of performance conditions for share option and comparable roles at companies within UBMs TSR comparator group as well other awards vesting in 2007: as other companies of similar size to UBM, and considers matters such as Reviewing and setting performance targets for long term incentive awards, inflation, the individuals responsibilities, the Companys performance and and making such awards: the salary policy throughout the Group as a whole.
Salary levels are reviewed annually.
Executive directors salaries were increased by 3% Determining the remuneration package for the new Chairman: in 2007.
Reviewing the composition of the TSR comparator group: and Bonuses Initiating a review of the Groups long term incentive plans which is Executive directors are eligible for an annual bonus dependent on the continuing in 2008. achievement of targets which take account of corporate performance as During 2007 the Committee was advised by Kepler Associates, independent well as individual objectives.
These targets are reviewed annually and new remuneration consultants, in relation to the Groups long term incentive plans objectives set by the Committee for each director at the start of the financial and on the benchmarking of remuneration packages.
A substantial element of the bonus is paid in the form of shares under appointed by the Committee and provide no other services to the Company.
the Bonus Investment Plan, which is described in more detail on page 47.
Ernst & Young LLP, who are the Groups auditors, reviewed and confirmed the measurement of performance conditions under the Groups long term incentive plans.
The Committee was also advised by the Company Secretary, Anne Siddell, who is secretary to the Committee, and by Jennifer Duvalier, group people and culture director, who joined UBM in September.
47 Following a benchmarking review of executive directors remuneration to the peer group on an historical basis.
The Committee considers packages, the maximum bonus award for David Levin for 2007 was that this method of calibration improves the robustness of the TSR increased to 170% of salary, with 130% of salary based on financial measures measurement process.
principally performance against budgeted earnings per share and underlying The Committee must also satisfy itself that the reported TSR is a genuine revenue growth and 40% of salary relating to the achievement of personal reflection of the Companys underlying financial performance over the objectives.
Maximum bonus awards for other executive directors were three-year performance period before releasing any awards.
The maximum maintained at 120% of salary, with 90% of salary based on financial measures value of an award will generally not exceed 1.5 times base salary in any and 30% of salary relating to the achievement of individual objectives.
financial year, although awards of up to 2 times salary may be made in UBMs strong financial performance in 2007, coupled with achievement exceptional circumstances.
Awards made to executive directors in 2007 were of personal objectives, has resulted in the executive directors achieving the 1.5 times salary.
Details of awards held by directors under the Performance Share Plan are set out on page 50. following bonus targets: David Levin 138.8% of salary The first award made under the Performance Share Plan in 2005 will vest in 2008.
Based on the Companys upper quartile TSR performance in its peer Nigel Wilson 107.9% of salary group over the three-year performance period, 89% of the award is expected Charles Gregson 78.8% of salary to vest.
Shares that vest under the Performance Share Plan accrue dividends.
Long term incentive plans Performance Share Plan Bonus Investment Plan The Performance Share Plan supports UBMs focus on longer term incentives The Bonus Investment Plan enables part of participants annual bonus to be by providing a share-based reward which requires UBMs TSR to outperform deferred into UBM shares, which must be held for three years, and provides its peers TSR over a three-year period.
Performance is measured against a the opportunity to earn further shares based on performance against peer group of companies selected by the Committee, and none of the award stretching targets.
25% of any annual bonus awarded will be automatically vests if UBMs TSR is less than the median of that group.
25% of the award deferred into UBM shares to be held for three years, at a price which is fixed vests if UBMs TSR is ranked at median position subject to a maximum value at the start of the period over which the bonus is earned: for 2007 bonuses of 25% of base salary, and 100% vests if UBMs TSR is ranked in the top to be awarded in March 2008, the relevant price is 696.18p per share.
In between these positions, the award vests on a straight-line basis, The participant may also elect to defer up to a further 25% of the bonus as illustrated below.
award into shares for the same period.
At the end of three years the Position Percentage of shares that vest participant could receive up to two additional shares for every share held 1 3 100% if the Companys earnings per share have grown in accordance with predetermined targets.
The target required for awards made in 2007 was 4 10 pro rata between 25% and 100% EPS growth of at least 8% per annum above UK inflation over the three-year 11 median 25% subject to maximum 25% of salary period.
A lower ratio of matching shares may be earned if earnings per share 12 21 0% have grown by more than 3% per annum above UK inflation.
The Committee considers TSR to provide an objective measure of The Committee considers that a performance condition based on long term performance and the selection of a tailored group of companies to enable growth in earnings per share reflects the Groups financial targets and measurement of UBMs performance against comparable businesses.
complements the TSR measure of the Performance Share Plan.
The targeted The comparator group for awards made during 2007 comprised the growth levels were reviewed during the year to ensure that they remain following 20 companies, which were selected for their mix of business appropriately stretching.
It is proposed to seek shareholder approval at the and geographic representation: Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting to increase the potential matching share awards that may be earned to three additional shares for Aegis Group CNET Networks every bonus share held.
Details of awards held by directors under the Bonus DMGT Dow Jones Investment Plan are set out on page 50.
Emap McGraw-Hill Shares that vest under the Bonus Investment Plan accrue dividends.
Euromoney Web MD Johnston Press Wolters Kluwer Executive Share Option Scheme Pearson Axel Springer The Company operates a shareholder approved Executive Share Option Reed Elsevier Lagardere Scheme the ESOS under which options are awarded to senior employees, Reuters APN News & Media including executive directors, to reward past performance and to incentivise T&f Informa Global Sources future performance.
Options are granted at market value.
The Committee determines the appropriate level of each grant having regard to corporate Trinity Mirror Thomson objectives, market forces and individual circumstances.
Options are subject The Committee reviews the peer group at least once a year, to confirm to a performance condition which requires growth in earnings per share that it continues to represent an appropriate benchmark.
Following the to exceed the increase in the UK Retail Price Index RPI by an average of at announcement in 2007 of the acquisition of Reuters, Dow Jones and Emap, least 3% per annum over the period of three years from the date of grant.
those three companies have been removed from the comparator group for For options granted up to and including 2006, options with a face value equal 2008 and will be replaced by WPP and Tech Target Inc. to 0.75 times salary vest at this level.
In order for the whole award to vest, growth in earnings per share must exceed the increase in UK inflation by an For PSP awards to be made in 2008 and subsequent years, the TSR measure average of at least 5% per annum over the measurement period.
A sliding will be calibrated using a percentage outperformance rather than a ranking.
scale applies between these two figures.
Threshold vesting will occur if UBMs TSR is equal to median TSR performance of the peer group.
Maximum vesting will occur if UBMs TSR outperforms the median of the peer group by 10% per annum.
This is broadly equivalent to between upper quintile and upper decile performance relative 48 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors remuneration report continued It is proposed to make further awards under the ESOS commencing in 2008: If Charles Gregsons employment were terminated other than for cause he performance conditions for these awards will require EPS growth to exceed would be entitled to a payment, calculated by reference to his unexpired the increase in RPI by an average of at least 8% per annum over the period of notice, of up to one years salary, benefits and 50% of average performance period for the whole award to vest.
25% of the award will vest bonus over the preceding three years excluding any special bonus.
at growth of 3% per annum above RPI.
The dates on which each executive directors current service contract No retesting is permitted of options granted under the ESOS.
commenced are as follows: Restricted shares David Levin 5 April 2005 The Company grants restricted share awards in special circumstances to Charles Gregson 2 July 2007 individuals, as a recruitment or retention tool.
The Company intends to make Nigel Wilson 6 July 2001 an award of restricted shares with a value of 220,000 to the Chief Financial Charles Gregson ceased to be an executive director on 31 December 2007 Officer and Deputy CEO, Nigel Wilson, to aid retention in the face of strong but continues as CEO of PR Newswire.
The award, to be made in March 2008, will vest after two years provided that at the vesting date Mr Wilson is still employed Policy on external appointments by the Group and the Committee is satisfied as to the Groups underlying The Company considers that by permitting executive directors to hold financial performance.
It will not be subject to any other performance office as a non-executive director of another company, they will increase conditions.
their knowledge and experience, thereby benefiting UBM.
The policy allows executive directors to accept not more than two outside corporate Other long term incentive plans directorships, subject to board approval.
Directors are entitled to retain Executive directors previously participated in the Medium Term Incentive Plan the fees earned.
and Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan.
A description of these plans, and details of outstanding awards under them held by executive directors, Charles Gregson is chairman of ICAP plc, for which he earned fees of 200,000 during 2007.
He also earned 24,471 in respect of his directorship appears on pages 51 and 52. of Provident Financial Plc.
Nigel Wilson earned 60,000 in respect of his Sharesave directorship of Halfords Group PLC.
David Levin is a member of the finance Executive directors are also entitled to participate in the sharesave scheme, committee of the Oxford University Press, a department of Oxford University, under which all eligible employees around the Group may acquire options and received fees of 14,000 from the University.
over ordinary shares of the Company at a discount of up to 20% of their market price, using the proceeds of a related SAYE contract.
Non-executive directors Policy on non-executive directors remuneration Pensions The Boards policy on non-executive directors remuneration is to pay All UBMs defined benefit schemes were closed to new entrants by 1996, fees which reflect their responsibilities, are competitive with those of other and for employees including executive directors joining since then it is FTSE 250 companies, and which align directors interests with those of UBMs policy to offer defined contribution pension provision.
The Board as a whole considers and approves the fees of the previously contributed to a personal pension for David Levin: during 2007 he non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman whose fees joined the defined contribution section of the United Group Pension Scheme, are approved by the Remuneration Committee.
of which Nigel Wilson is also a member.
Charles Gregson was a deferred Non-executive directors receive an annual fee of 45,000, of which 30,000 member of the United Pension Plan which is an approved defined benefit is paid in cash, and the balance of 15,000 per annum after deduction of scheme: since June 2007 he has been drawing his pension under that Plan.
These shares are reflected in the table of directors interests in shares on page 53.
No additional fee is paid in respect of Performance conditions membership of Board Committees, nor in respect of undertaking foreign In 2005, UBM started reporting its results in line with International Financial travel to meetings.
An additional payment of 10,000 per annum is made Reporting Standards IFRS.
In order to achieve consistency of measurement, to the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees and to the the Committee retained UK GAAP as the basis for measuring performance senior independent director.
Non-executive directors fees were last reviewed conditions for awards which matured in 2007.
This position will be reviewed in 2006: there has been no change in fee levels since 2004. for future years, as IFRS becomes more established.
The Chairman, Geoff Unwin, received a fee of 200,000 per annum of Dilution limits which 100,000 was paid in cash and the balance of 100,000 in UBM The use of newly issued or treasury shares to satisfy awards under the Groups shares.
John Botts, who was appointed Chairman in December 2007, receives long term incentive plans is limited to 10% of UBMs issued share capital.
a fee of 250,000 per annum of which 150,000 is paid in cash and the Awards made under the Performance Share Plan and Bonus Investment Plan balance of 100,000 in UBM shares.
are expected to be satisfied with market-purchased shares held by an employee benefit trust.
Outstanding options under UBMs other long term Non-executive directors contracts incentive plans which could require shares to be issued currently account Upon his appointment as Chairman, John Botts entered into a three-year for approximately 7% of UBMs issued share capital.
contract which is terminable by either party on not less than 12 months notice.
Executive directors service contracts Other non-executi five directors do not have a service contract with the It is the Companys policy that all executive directors should have service Company but are engaged under a letter of appointment.
Adair Turner has contracts that are terminable on no more than one years notice and that a notice period of six months while Jonathan Newcomb, Christopher Hyman, contracts should not have a fixed term.
All executive directors contracts Sandy Leitch, Pradeep Kar and Karen Thomson have notice periods of provide for automatic termination at age 65. three months.
None of the non-executive directors terms of appointment Under David Levin and Nigel Wilsons contracts, any payments on early contain any provision for payment of compensation on early termination.
termination by the Company would be by reference to the unexpired period Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in the Companys share of notice, subject to a duty to mitigate.
Each directors appointment including that of the Chairman is reviewed every three years.
Set out below are the dates on which each non-executive director was first appointed to the Board and the year in which he was last re-elected by shareholders.
49 Director Date of appointment Date of election last re-election John Botts 8 July 1997 2007 Christopher Hyman 7 May 2004 2005 Pradeep Kar 1 August 2006 2007 Sandy Leitch 11 January 2005 2005 Jonathan Newcomb 27 September 2001 2005 Karen Thomson 1 August 2006 2007 Adair Turner 1 January 2000 2006 The above graph shows UBMs total shareholder return performance over the last five years since 31 December 2002 as compared to the FTSE Media Index, which has been chosen as UBM is a constituent of that index.
Directors remuneration In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the following information in this report has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
Non-executive directors fees include an element which is paid in the form of ordinary shares as described on page 48.
Benefits are non pensionable car and cash allowances.
The bonus column reflects the cash value of bonuses earned in respect of 2007.
At least 25% of the total bonus earned will be converted into ordinary shares and executive directors will be awarded nil cost options over these shares in 2008.
Geoff Unwin ceased to be Chairman on 13 December 2007 and the fees column above reflects his remuneration up to the date of leaving.
The compensation figure comprises fees paid in accordance with UBMs obligations for the balance of Geoff Unwins notice period, which would otherwise have expired on 13 March 2008.
Directors pension provision The tables below provide relevant disclosure in respect of Charles Gregsons entitlement under a defined benefit scheme, and contributions payable by the Company to defined contribution schemes for David Levin and Nigel Wilson.
Charles Gregson retired from the United Pension Plan and drew his benefits in full on 7 June 2007, his Normal Retirement Date.
He elected to exchange part of his accrued pension under the Plan for a lump sum, in accordance with the rules.
As such his final benefits payable from the Plan were a pension of 327,801 p. a. with effect from his retirement date and a one off lump sum of 800,615, which was paid shortly after his retirement date.
Pensions in payment are increased at the lesser of RPI and 5% per annum.
A spouses pension of 255,319 per annum is payable in the event that he dies and leaves a surviving spouse.
50 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors remuneration report continued The table below shows the accrued pension entitlement for Charles Gregson at his retirement date, the transfer value on his retirement date and at the prior year end and the increase in the accrued pension over the period to his retirement date in excess of inflation.
Increase in Transfer accrued value at Increase in Increase in pension 7.6.
07 of accrued transfer value during the increase in pension for year to year to excess of Transfer value Accrued during the 7.6.
07 in inflation less pension year to member excess of member 7.6.
07 contributions inflation contributions 000 Name Current age 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 pa 000 Charles Gregson 60 383 13 7,786 7,783 0 0 0 David Levin and Nigel Wilson are both members of the defined contribution section of the United Group Pension Scheme.
The table below shows the total pension contributions paid by the Company during the year on behalf of each individual.
Company pension Company pension contribution in respect contribution in respect of the year of 2006 Name Normal retirement age Pension contribution 000 000 David Levin 65 20% of basic salary 107 104 Nigel Wilson 65 20% of basic salary 82 80 Awards under long term incentive plans The tables below show details of outstanding awards held by and awards granted to executive directors in 2007, under the Groups long term incentive plans.
Directors interests in Bonus Investment Plan Bonus Matching options options Bonus Matching exercised exercised Bonus Matching options held options held lapsed lapsed options held options held Exercise Exercise Market value Date of grant at 1.1.
Awards made under the BIP are in the form of nil cost options over the Companys shares, the number of shares in respect of the mandatory element to be calculated using the average share price for the month preceding the start of the relevant financial year.
Participants may also elect to receive up to a further 25% of their bonus in the form of shares, the number of shares to be calculated by reference to the market value as at the date such election is made.
Awards will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, provided the director remains in the Groups employment.
Vesting of the matching shares is dependent on the performance targets being met, as described on page 47.
Awards may also vest in part, subject to the performance conditions being met, if employment ceases due to redundancy, disability, injury, death, retirement or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The cash value of the bonus option shares, calculated in accordance with the rules of the Bonus Investment Plan, was included in the directors remuneration table in respect of the year in which they were earned.
The market value of the matching option shares at 31 December 2007 is calculated at 649.5p per share, the closing mid market price on that date.
Directors interests in Performance Share Plan Exercised lapsed Market price Options held during Options held Exercise Exercise at date of Date of grant at 1.1.
Awards will vest in whole or in part on the third anniversary of the date of grant, provided the director remains in the Groups employment, and subject to the performance conditions being met, as described on page 47.
51 Directors interests in share options Exercised lapsed Market price Options held during Options held Exercise Exercise Exercise price at date of Total gain on Date of grant at 1.1.
Directors interests in MTIP Exercised Market price lapsed at date of Options held during Options held Exercise Exercise exercise Total gain on Date of grant at 1.1.
Awards made under the MTIP are in the form of nil cost options over the Companys shares, the number of shares to be calculated using the average share price for the month preceding the start of the relevant financial year.
Awards made in 2005 vested as to 50% in January 2007 and the balance in January 2008.
Awards will also vest if employment ceases due to redundancy, disability, injury, death, retirement at or after contractual retirement age, or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Only purchased shares may be used to fulfil awards under the MTIP.
Executive directors are no longer eligible to participate in the MTIP.
52 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors remuneration report continued Directors interests in the Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan The SEEPP, which has now been replaced by the Bonus Investment Plan, offered selected senior executives including executive directors the opportunity to waive part or all of their annual bonus and receive an interest in shares in the Company bonus shares to the equivalent value.
The executive was also granted a right to acquire further shares matching shares in the Company equal in value to the gross amount of the bonus foregone.
Matching share awards will vest after four years but only to the extent that the associated bonus shares are still held on that date.
Matching share awards are also subject to a performance condition which is measured over the four-year vesting period.
One-third of the award may only be exercised if growth in earnings per share during that period exceeds inflation by an average of 3% per annum: a further one-third requires such growth to exceed inflation by an average of 5% per annum: the remaining one-third requires no performance condition.
No re-testing of performance conditions is permitted.
These conditions are in accordance with the Committees policy as outlined above.
Following the introduction of the Bonus Investment Plan, no further awards will be made under the SEEPP.
Notes The directors gave up cash bonuses that would otherwise have been receivable by them in order to receive awards under the SEEPP.
For Charles Gregson, the bonus was paid to his Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme FURBS and used by the FURBS Trustees to purchase shares from the SEEPP Trustees at full market value.
A matching award was granted over an equal number of shares.
The table shows the total bonus shares and matching awards.
The bonus shares are included in Charles Gregsons beneficial interest in shares shown on page 53.
The amount used to purchase the bonus shares was included in his reported remuneration for the year in which the award was made.
The SEEPP bonus shares options and matching awards were adjusted to reflect the capital reorganisation which took place on 23 April 2001, whereby every shareholder received 44p shares and 29 new ordinary shares in place of every 44 ordinary shares previously held.
53 Directors interests in shares The interests of the directors in ordinary shares all of which are beneficial are shown as at 1 January 2007 and at 31 December 2007 or date of leaving if earlier.
SEEPP and SEEPP and Ordinary Ordinary BIP bonus BIP bonus shares at shares at shares at shares at Director 01.01.07 31.12.07 01.01.07 31.12.07 David Levin 45,164 43,132 36,881 73,166 Charles Gregson 289,944 349,486 36,952 52,288 Nigel Wilson 16,016 14,381 132,342 164,494 John Botts 11,250 11,258 Christopher Hyman 5,308 5,923 Pradeep Kar 209 1,344 Sandy Leitch 3,609 4,397 Jonathan Newcomb 13,049 12,874 Karen Thomson 209 1,344 Adair Turner 9,483 9,672 Geoff Unwin 57,571 59,414 On joining UBM, David Levin was conditionally awarded 28,400 ordinary shares which are included in the opening balance of shares in the table above.
He became entitled to receive 50% of these shares on 6 April 2007 and on 10 April 2007 he sold 14,200 shares at a price of 802.05p per share.
Provided he is still employed by UBM he will be entitled to receive the remaining 50% of these shares on 6 April 2008.
As at 31 December 2007 the Trustees of the United Business Media ESOP Trust and the Qualifying Employee Share Trust held 2,724,794 ordinary shares 2006: 3,512,246.
Changes in directors interests since 31 December 2007 There have been no changes to the interests of directors in UBM shares nor in options over UBM shares between 31 December 2007 and 28 February 2008.
The minimum price of ordinary shares during the year was 579.5p and the maximum price was 867.0p.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf Sandy Leitch 29 February 2008
