CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REpORT 59 Introduction Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Report sets out the policies and The Companys Executive Directors, together with the practices adopted by the Company during the year ended majority of the key operational and functional heads, 31 March 2007 in respect of members of the Board.
including the Executive Directors, within the Group Senior Management Group, are based in India with the exception The Executive Directors are based in India with the of Mr Anil Agarwal, who is UK-based.
A consistent exception of Mr Anil Agarwal, who is UK-based, along approach is used in determining the remuneration of the with the majority of the Groups professional management.
Both performance-related and Consequently their remuneration is set by reference to the  components of the remuneration prevailing rates within that market.
This Remuneration packages for Executive Directors and the Senior Report seeks to describe the Companys approach to Management Group are therefore set by reference to local remuneration by putting it into an Indian context.
market practice in India and influenced by the Groups policy of balancing the internal development of the Groups The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance management with the selective introduction of new ideas with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and experience into the wider management team through the Regulations Schedule 7A, Companies Act 1985. external recruitment.
Against this backdrop, the Boards Part II of this Remuneration Report contains the information overall objective is therefore to have in place a on which the auditors are required to report to the remuneration policy that helps facilitate the development Companys members.
of managers from within the existing operations, whilst offering remuneration packages that reflect the Groups Part I Unaudited position as a pre-eminent player in the Indian metals and Remuneration Committee the Committee mining sector, in particular, and the manufacturing sector The Chairman of the Committee is Mr Naresh Chandra.
other members of the Committee are Mr Euan Macdonald and Mr Aman Mehta.
All three members of the Committee Accordingly, the Board remains committed to the principle served during the year and are all independent Directors.
of retaining and incentivising managers by ensuring that the structure of individual packages remains in line with The Committee is primarily responsible, on behalf of the market practice, whilst also taking into account the Board, for setting the remuneration policy and remuneration performance of the individual and the Company as a whole.
packages of the Executive Directors.
The Committees aim is that the Executive Directors are rewarded appropriately for The following factors are taken into account when setting their contribution to the Group and are motivated to enhance remuneration levels for the Executive Directors and the the return to shareholders.
Senior Management Group: n levels of remuneration throughout the Group: Mr Anil Agarwal, in his capacity as Executive Chairman, n market practices prevailing in the countries in which and Mr Kuldip Kaura, in his capacity as Chief Executive executives work: and Officer, attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
n market practices in the Indian mining and manufacturing No Director plays a part in any discussion about his own sectors in respect of operational management and in remuneration.
Mr Srinivasan Venkatesh President Group all sectors in respect of corporate and supporting HR advises the Committee on the policies and practices functions, excluding certain very high-paying sectors, being applied and acts as the minutes secretary to the for example, financial services.
He also provides input into discussions concerning the remuneration and benefits offered to the The Group attempts to align the interests of the Executive Executive Directors during the year.
Directors and Senior Management Group with those of the shareholders by linking share and cash incentives Activities of the Remuneration Committee to corporate performance.
This is measured by reference The Committee meets at least twice annually and reports to the key performance indicators as discussed in the its material findings at the next Board meeting.
The Business Review on pages 8 to 25.
Therefore, the principal business of these meetings is summarised below: remuneration packages of the Senior Management n May 2006: approved and reviewed changes to the Group comprise: Directors remuneration packages, including the salary n a salary for day-to-day performance of duties: and bonus reviews for the Executive Chairman and n an annual performance bonus as an incentive to meet the Executive Directors: approved the remuneration short-term goals these are set by reference to report for inclusion in the 2006 Financial Statements.
individual key result areas KRAs, personal qualities n November 2006: considered managements proposal and the financial performance of the Company: to introduce a Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP within n awards under the LTIP referred to below to incentivise the existing Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
long-term and strategic performance: n January 2007: approved the STIP proposal for selected n awards under STIP for members of the Senior employees across the Group, not including Executive Management Group below Board level within the overall Directors.
LTIP Scheme: and n benefits in kind in accordance with local market The Combined Code practices.
The Directors consider that the Company has complied with the provisions relating to the Directors remuneration set Given the India-focused approach taken to remuneration out in the Combined Code throughout the year.
policy, it has not been felt necessary to appoint independent compensation and benefit consultants to advise the Committee on remuneration matters during the year.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 60 REMUNERATION REpORT CONTINUED Salaries, Pensions and Other Benefits Benefits in kind provided to Indian-based senior executives Salaries and Cost to Company are set in line with local market practices and include Salaries for Executive Directors and members of the Senior private medical insurance, accident insurance, the use of Management Group are set by reference to those positions a car and driver, and for certain individuals, the provision of comparable status, skill and responsibility in the metals of accommodation, either in Company-owned or leased and mining industries, and in the manufacturing and premises.
Mr Navin Agarwal and Mr Kaura are provided engineering industries more generally.
Mr Agarwal was also reimbursed club membership fees.
Mr Anil Agarwal has a service agreement with the Company under which he received a salary of 600,000 per annum, Annual Bonus for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Company operates an annual bonus scheme providing the Executive Directors and the Senior Management Group The basic remuneration of executives in India is referred to with an opportunity to earn a cash amount based on the as cost to company CTC which represents an aggregate achievement of stretching annual performance targets.
figure encompassing basic salary, allowances and The bonus targets are reviewed by the Committee at the retirement benefits contributions.
beginning of the financial year over which performance will be measured.
The annual bonus is non-pensionable.
Mr Navin Agarwal and Mr Kaura both have service agreements with Sterlite Industries India Ltd Sterlite The maximum bonus payable to the Executive Directors which have been augmented by letters of appointment with is 100% of annual base salary, whilst for other members the Company.
During the year, Mr Agarwal was entitled to of the Senior Management Group, the maximum bonus CTC of INR 28,162,795 per annum and Mr Kaura was payable is 50% of CTC.
In respect of Mr Navin Agarwal entitled to CTC of INR 17,600,000 per annum pursuant to and Mr Kaura, salary means the aggregate of their salary their Sterlite service agreements.
They were both entitled payable from Vedanta and their CTC payable by Sterlite.
to benefits in kind during the year.
Under their letters of appointment with the Company, Mr Navin Agarwal and Performance conditions are attached to all bonus Mr Kaura were each paid fees of 50,000 per annum, to arrangements, which are set by reference to individual reflect the amount of time they spend on Board business.
KRAs, personal quality measures and the financial performance indicators of the Group.
The majority of Salaries are reviewed on an annual basis and changes KRA targets are linked to the Groups key performance will generally be implemented with effect from 1 April indicators, see the Finance Review on pages 26 to 31. each year taking into account the period of service during However, certain KRAs monitor performance in respect the year.
of softer issues, or enablers, for example, people management, thus allowing a more rounded approach The salary levels of the Executive Directors agreed by the to be taken to incentivisation.
Committee on 14 May 2007 take effect from 1 April 2007 and are as follows: For the year ended 31 March 2007, the payment of the annual bonus was dependent on the achievement of a combination of individual and corporate objectives, which Vedanta salary Sterlite salary correlated to the responsibilities of the individual and the level from level from 1 April 2007 1 April 2007 Group budget for the year.
Designation INR Total in EBITDA was the vital part of business score taken as AK Agarwal Executive the single parameter of corporate performance and the Chairman 750,000 Nil 750,000 N Agarwal Deputy weighting for this parameter was 50%.
An individuals Executive 60,000 3,60,50,000 482,873 performance against his KRAs, as reviewed in the Chairman annual performance appraisal, accounted for 40% KK Kaura Chief Executive 60,000 2,25,28,000 324,258 of an individuals bonus weighting, with the remaining 10% of the bonus weighting being for the personal Note: Exchange rate of INR 85.250 : 1 as at 1 April 2007. qualities of the individual.
Pensions Employee Share Schemes The Company does not provide post retirement benefits to The Group aims to provide superior rewards for outstanding Mr Anil Agarwal and this is reflected in the determination performance and a high proportion of at risk remuneration of his overall remuneration package.
The Indian-based for Executive Directors.
Three types of employee share Executive Directors are entitled to contribute to the Provident schemes were approved by shareholders on Listing.
The Fund, a Gratuity and Superannuation Fund which provides Board has no intention at present to introduce any further pension benefits consistent with local market practices.
These are defined contribution pension arrangements.
The Vedanta Resources Share Reward Plan was adopted Contributions to the Provident Fund, Gratuity & solely for the purpose of rewarding employees who had Superannuation Fund are included within the CTC contributed to the Companys development and growth over payable to an individual in India.
the period leading up to the Companys Listing in December 2003.
No further awards have been made under that plan Benefits in Kind nor are any planned in the future.
Mr Anil Agarwal is provided with a car and fuel in the UK for business and personal use.
For his frequent business trips to India, Mr Agarwal is also provided with a car and driver for business use and is entitled to the exclusive use of Company-owned furnished accommodation.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE 61 Similarly, it is not intended that options will be granted in a factor of CTC, based on how the individual has been the foreseeable future under the Vedanta Resources Share assessed in accordance with the Groups guidelines.
Option Plan, adopted to provide maximum flexibility in the design of incentive arrangements over the long term.
The extent to which an award vests will depend on the Companys TSR ranking against the Adapted Comparator Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Group at the end of the three-year performance period.
Consistent with the Boards objective of developing the potential inherent within the wider management group, the The vesting schedule is shown in the table below, with principal focus during the year under review has been on straight-line vesting in between the points shown down to broadening the number of employees eligible to participate the nearest whole share.
% of Since its launch in 2004, the Companys performance, award measured in terms of Total Shareholder Return TSR, Vedantas TSR performance against Adapted Comparator Group vesting being the movement in the Companys share price plus Below median Nil reinvested dividends, was compared over a three-year At median 40 period from the date of grant with the performance of the At or above upper quartile 100 companies constituting the FTSE Worldwide Mining Index excluding precious metals.
The performance condition will be measured by taking the Companys TSR over the four weeks immediately preceding By the year end a number of employees have exercised the date of grant and over the four weeks immediately their option granted under the LTIP scheme 2004.
At the preceding the end of the three-year performance period, end of the three year Performance Period on 26 February and comparing its performance with that of the Adapted 2007, Ernst & Young LLP was commissioned to calculate Comparator Group.
The information to enable this Vedantas TSR performance against the comparator group calculation to be carried out on behalf of the Committee companies.
Vedanta shares have performed 280% higher will be provided by the Companys advisers.
The Committee since the grant of LTIP on 26 February 2004.
Vedantas TSR considers that this performance condition provides a ranked third among its comparator group and hence 181 reasonable alignment of the interests of the Executive employee are entitled to exercise 100% of their options.
Directors and the Senior Management Group with those of the shareholders.
The LTIP rules however do not specify the comparator companies and in 2006 it was agreed by the Remuneration As the majority of the Groups employees are employed Committee that the Company adopt a specific list of in India, in order to retain top people in that market, the companies as a comparator group the Adapted Comparator Remuneration Committee has to be cognisant of local Group so that periodic assessments of the Companys TSR market practice.
In this market the most common form performance can be made.
The Committee is satisfied that of executive share option scheme is one in which a certain the Adapted Comparator Group is appropriate and will percentage of options vest every year and the total options ensure the continued alignment of the interests of the vest over three to four years.
In contrast the full extent Executive Directors and wider management group with of awards under the Vedanta LTIP is known only after those of the shareholders.
The Adapted Comparator Group the full three years.
Also unlike the Vedanta LTIP, the is given below: benefits under these schemes are not linked to relative TSR performance with a peer group of companies.
1 Anglo American Considering the difference in eligibility factors including 2 Antofagasta vesting term duration and performance relative to peer 3 BHP Billiton group companies that determine benefits under LTIP, 4 Gmexico the Remuneration Committee believes that 40% vesting 5 Hindalco for median performance is warranted and is the 6 CVRD minimum required to maintain the LTIPs role as a 7 Alcan strong motivational and retention tool for a high calibre 8 Rio Tinto management team.
9 Tech Cominco 10 Xstrata Details of the awards held by the Executive Directors as at 31 March 2007 are shown in the table of Directors Long The maximum value of shares that can be conditionally Term Incentive Awards on page 64. awarded to an Executive Director in a year is 100% of annual salary.
The maximum value of shares that can be Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP awarded to members of the Senior Management Group is calculated by reference to the fixed salary CTC and The majority of the Groups employees work in India, which is rapidly emerging as one of the most competitive and share-based remuneration consistent with local market practice.
vibrant job markets in the world.
In this context, talented management continues to be scarce, and competitive Nominations for awards under the LTIP are made by the remuneration packages need to offer a premium.
Almost all the Groups professional employees are prime targets chief executive officers of each operating company and heads of large independent projects based on guidelines for large manufacturing companies, including natural resources, energy and infrastructure companies etc, whilst issued by the Group.
Individuals are assessed and categorised by reference to the importance of their roles to sector neutral talent in finance, human resources and IT have a plethora of career choices across different sectors the relevant business unit, past performance and future potential.
The size of awards is linked to fixed salary, being from manufacturing to financial services and IT.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 62 REMUNERATION REpORT CONTINUED Relative Importance of Fixed and Variable Pay Other than aggressive salaries, companies are also using a A significant proportion of the remuneration of the variety of incentives both shortand long-term to attract Executive Directors is performance-linked.
Assuming the and retain employees.
In India, both local and international Executive Directors receive the maximum bonus blue chip companies are deploying very aggressively, entitlement and full vesting of the maximum LTIP awards, US style schemes to incentivise their employees.
the chart below demonstrates the balance of fixed and variable pay in these circumstances for the Executive In addition, the introduction of the STIP was intended Directors.
to stem any exodus of talent that may occur after the February 2007 vesting, which affected approximately : M:9 6C9 K6G 67A: E6N D: :M:8JI K: 9 G:8IDGH 200 key employees.
Against this background, we believed AI E there was a need to review the current LTIP Schemes 7DCJH three year performance period.
H6A6GN$8I8 During the year, the Committee approved a shorter duration incentive scheme, within the existing LTIP Scheme, covering select employees other than Executive Directors.
This scheme is similar to the existing LTIP scheme in all respects, except that it will have a performance period of 12 months only.
Under this scheme, awards of 565,530 options to 655 employees were granted.
Total Shareholder Return Performance Graph The graph below shows the TSR performance of the Company in comparison with that of the Adapted Comparator Group for the period from 10 December 2003 Executive Directors Service Contracts the date of Listing to 31 March 2007.
The Adapted Mr Anil Agarwal and Mr Navin Agarwal are employed under Comparator Group is presented as it is the comparator contracts of employment with the Company which are not group under the rules of LTIP.
To provide more detail, the for a fixed term but which may be terminated by not less graph presents performance on a daily basis rather than than six months notice by either party.
Provision is made in using year end dates as required by the Regulations.
their contracts for payment to be made in lieu of notice on termination.
In the case of Mr Anil Agarwal, this would be 9V an IdiVa H]VgZ]daYZg GZijgc EZg[dgbVcXZ &% 9ZXZbWZg '%% A hi c id & BVgX] '%%, equal to basic salary and costs to the Company for providing KZYVciV kZghjh 6YVeiZY 8dbeVgVidg gdje 6kZgV Z gZWVhZY id &%% certain benefits during the notice period or part thereof.
&% KZYVciV 6YVeiZY 8dbeVgVidg gdje BZVc % Mr Navin Agarwal has a letter of appointment with Vedanta which may be terminated by giving six months notice.
&% Mr Kaura has a letter of appointment with Vedanta which may be terminated by giving three months notice.
In the % case of their service agreements with Sterlite, they may be terminated by giving three months notice.
Mr Kauras &% contract with the Group has been extended until 31 March ' % 2008.
Mr Navin Agarwals appointment as a director of Sterlite will expire on 31 July 2008, being the expiry date '&% specified in his Sterlite contract, whilst his appointment as a Director of Vedanta is a rolling contract.
"& % Copies of all Executive Directors service contracts and the &&% letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors are % available for inspection during normal business hours at 9ZX""% BVg""% ?jc""% HZe""% 9ZX""% BVg""% ?jc""% HZe""% 9ZX""% BVg""% ?jc""% HZe""% 9ZX""% BVg""%, the registered office of the Company."
Individual Service Contract Details Date of contract Notice period Outstanding term AK Agarwal 27 November 2003 6 months Rolling notice period N Agarwal Vedanta 4 May 2005 6 months Rolling notice period N Agarwal Sterlite 1 August 2003 3 months Until 31 July 2008 KK Kaura Vedanta 4 May 2005 3 months Until 31 March 2008 KK Kaura Sterlite 20 October 2004 3 months Until 31 March 2008 1 N Chandra 1 June 2007 3 months Until 1 June 2008 A Mehta 24 November 2004 3 months Until 23 November 2007 SK Tamotia 24 November 2004 3 months Until 23 November 2007 ER Macdonald 23 March 2005 3 months Until 22 March 2008 1 Mr Chandra is engaged on a contract renewable every 12 months.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 9V an IdiVa H]VgZ]daYZg GZijgc EZg[dgbVcXZ gZWVhZY id &%% CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE 63 Non-executive Directors Fees Currently, none of the Executive Directors holds any such The Board is responsible for setting non-executive outside appointments, other than Messrs Anil Agarwal and Directors fees and reviews them periodically.
In setting the Navin Agarwal who hold directorships of related parties fees of non-executive Directors, the Board has taken into or Volcan.
account the complexity of the Group, the significant travel and time commitments required for attending Board and Equity Dilution Resulting from Employee Share Schemes other meetings in India and the UK, and the unique risk The dilution limits set out in the rules of the Employee profile of the Company.
During the year, non-executive Share Schemes in December 2003 allow up to an aggregate Directors fees comprise three elements: of 10% of the Companys issued share capital to be issued or issuable pursuant to awards under any of the Companys employee share schemes over a period of 10 years.
Up to Base fee 50,000 5% of the Companys issued share capital may be used for Committee membership fee Up to 5,000 depending on the the Companys discretionary schemes over a 10-year scope of the committee concerned period.
These dilution limits extend also to the STIP.
Shares Committee chairmanship fee Up to 20,000 depending on the issued or issuable pursuant to awards made under the scope of the committee concerned Reward Plan are not counted for these purposes.
Currently, 1.08% 2006: 1.28% of the Companys issued share capital is issuable in respect of outstanding awards under the LTIP.
Chairmans Salary The Chairmans salary is approved by the Board without the Chairman being present on the recommendation of the Part II Audited Committee.
Directors Remuneration Year ended 31 March 2007 Non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment The following table sets out an analysis of the pre-tax The non-executive Directors have letters of appointment remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2007 for which may be terminated by either party by giving three individual Directors who held office in the Company during months notice.
The non-executive Directors letters of this period.
All amounts are in UK pounds sterling although appointment set out the time requirements expected of payments in India under service contracts with Sterlite are them in the performance of their duties.
Non-executive paid in Indian rupees.
Directors are normally expected to spend at least 20 days per year on Company business.
There is no provision in the The mid-market price of the shares at 31 March 2007 was letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors for 13.31 pence and from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, the compensation to be paid in the event of early termination.
share price varied between 10.91 pence and 17.40 pence.
No LTIP or STIP awards were granted to the Directors External Appointments during the year.
The Boards policy on external appointments is that an Executive Director may accept one appointment external to the Group other than any appointment to related parties or Volcan in the case of Messrs Anil Agarwal and Navin Agarwal as a non-executive director of a publicly listed company anywhere, but with the prior approval of the Board, and that the fees for any such appointment may be retained by the individual.
Directors Remuneration Annual Salary performance Benefits 2007 2006 CTC fees bonus in kind Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 1 AK Agarwal 600 300 36 936 664 2 N Agarwal 387 224 34 645 451 3 KK Kaura 255 136 21 412 313 Non-executive Directors N Chandra 85 85 85 A Mehta 75 75 75 SK Tamotia 73 73 73 ER Macdonald 63 63 63 PE Sydney Smith 428 Total 1,538 660 91 2,289 2,152 1 Mr Anil Agarwals benefits in kind include life insurance and provision of a car and fuel in the UK for business and personal purposes.
2 Mr Navin Agarwals benefits in kind include private health insurance, accident insurance and use of Company-owned accommodation in India.
3 Mr Kauras benefits in kind including private health insurance, accident insurance, and provision in India of Company-leased accommodation.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 64 REMUNERATION REpORT CONTINUED Directors Long Term Incentive Plan Awards Movements during the year Exercise Earliest price of latest Date Market Mraket Aggregate Option award 1 April 31 March exercise award price at price at gain on granted US cents 2006 Grants Exercised 2007 dates exercised exercise grant exercise AK Agarwal 26.2.
09 Notes 1 The performance conditions attached to LTIP awards granted in 2006 require the Companys TSR to equal or exceed the TSR performance of the median of the Adapted Comparator Group before 40% of the award can vest, and to be equal to or greater than the performance of the Company at the upper quartile of that group for the whole award to vest.
Awards vest on a sliding scale in between these points.
Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares The interests of the Directors which are beneficial unless otherwise stated in ordinary shares at 31 March 2007 were: Ordinary Ordinary shares at shares at 1 April 2006 31 March 2007 AK Agarwal 154,157,921 154,157,921 N Agarwal 200,000 200,000 KK Kaura 50,000 50,000 N Chandra A Mehta SK Tamotia ER Macdonald 1.
Mr Anil Agarwal and Mr Navin Agarwal each held nominee shares in direct and indirect subsidiaries.
There have been no changes in the beneficial shareholdings of the Directors between the end of the financial year and 14 May 2007.
Annual General Meeting Shareholders will be asked to vote on this Remuneration Report at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors NARESH CHANDRA Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 14 May 2007 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
