DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for on 1 January each year.
With effect from 1 January 2008, Messrs recommending and monitoring the level and structure of Butterworth and Salmon were awarded salary increases of 10% remuneration for senior management, being the first layer of and 5% respectively, following a review of market data.
management below Board level, and setting the appropriate Benefits in kind receivable by the executive Directors remuneration for the Group Chairman, the executive Directors and principally comprise company car allowances, life assurance the Group Secretary.
A copy of the Committees Terms of Reference benefits and medical and disability insurance.
These benefits are is available on the Companys website, www.
similar to those provided to other Company executives in the UK.
The current members of the Committee are all the nonexecutive Directors, namely Messrs Hewitt, Oosterveld, Perry and Variable remuneration Sussens, who also chairs the Committee.
All the members of the The remuneration programme is structured such that variable, Committee are deemed to be independent.
The Chairman, Chief performance-related remuneration potentially represents more Executive and Group Finance Director are invited to attend than half of total remuneration.
In formulating its policies and deciding individual Annual incentive remuneration levels, the Committee was advised during the year In line with the Groups other senior executives, the executive by the Chief Executive, the Group Secretary and by the external Directors are eligible to receive an annual incentive calculated as advisers Kepler Associates KA and New Bridge Street a percentage of base salary and based on achievement against Consultants LLP NBS, and the law firms McDermott Will & specified financial targets.
Each year the Committee establishes Emery UK LLP MWE and Clifford Chance LLP CC.
KA, NBS the financial performance criteria for the forthcoming year.
These and MWE were appointed directly by the Committee and CC was criteria are set by reference to the Groups financial budget and appointed by the Company on its behalf.
NBS, MWE and CC also prior year actual financial results.
provide other limited advice to the Group, in their specialist areas The Annual Incentive has a Threshold level of performance of share award valuation, employment law and share schemes below which no award is paid, a Target level at which executive respectively.
Directors are entitled to a payment equal to 50% of their base salary and a Maximum performance level at which a maximum Remuneration policy for executive Directors award worth 100% of base salary is earned.
The Committee has established employment and remuneration For the financial year 2007, the executive Directors Annual practices for the Companys executive Directors aimed at fostering a Incentive was based on Group headline earnings performance, high performance culture.
In formulating remuneration policy, the the calculation of which is shown in note 17 to the consolidated Committee has regard to the international scale and nature of the financial statements.
For 2007, the Maximum level of Groups operations and takes into consideration guidelines issued by performance was exceeded and so maximum annual bonuses its leading shareholders and bodies such as the Institutional were paid to the executive Directors for 2007.
These are reported Shareholders Committee, the Association of British Insurers ABI in the Directors remuneration table on page 46. and the National Association of Pension Funds.
The remuneration The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2008 packages of the executive Directors are benchmarked against their the executive Directors Annual Incentive will again be based on peers and have been designed to ensure that a substantial Group headline earnings.
proportion of remuneration is linked to performance.
The Committee considers the efficacy of the Groups LTIP and other share incentive plans executive remuneration policy each year and commissions more The LTIP was introduced in 2004 and is the only long-term formal reviews as it considers appropriate.
The last such incentive plan under which awards are made to the executive comprehensive review was undertaken in 2006, when KA were Directors.
It rewards executives for delivering superior Total asked to review the Groups executive remuneration policy to Shareholder Return TSR, defined as the increase in the value ensure that it continued to provide a strong alignment with the of a share, including re-invested dividends, and from 2007 delivery of value to shareholders and reflected market best onwards headline earnings per share EPS growth, and as practice.
The review demonstrated that the overall remuneration such is intended to align executive remuneration with package was competitive in terms of both structure and shareholders interests.
However, the review concluded that certain changes The LTIP has two elements: firstly, executive Directors are should be made to the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
eligible to receive a conditional annual allocation of shares worth Further information on these changes, which were made in 2007, up to 100% of base salary Performance Shares : secondly, is given below.
executive Directors can elect to invest all or part of their Annual Incentive in ordinary shares of the Company Bonus Investment Annual salary and benefits in kind Shares in return for which they receive a conditional allocation Base salary is set by reference to market rates in the relevant of shares worth up to 2.25 times the pre-tax equivalent of the country for jobs of similar complexity and responsibility.
The Annual Incentive so invested Matching Shares.
In addition, for Chairmans fees and the salaries of the Chief Executive and Group awards made after 7 March 2007 the Remuneration Committee Finance Director are benchmarked against salaries within two has the discretion to award participants the dividends that would FTSE 250 comparator groups, the first focusing on sector have been paid on the number of shares that vest in respect of comparators and the second on companies of similar size.
The dividend record dates occurring during the period between the salaries of individual executive Directors are normally reviewed award date and the date of vesting.
Cookson Group plc 42 Annual Report 2007 OUR GOVERNANCE Performance Shares and Matching Shares can vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on the Companys performance against specified performance conditions.
For awards made in 2005 and 2006, vesting is based upon the Groups three-year TSR performance as explained in more detail below relative to that of the companies of its comparator group, the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
Vesting of the Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2005 and 2006 LTIP awards will therefore be as follows: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Matching Shares Vesting Ratio excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below Median 0% 0 Median 25% 0.5:1 Upper Quintile top 20% 100% 2.25:1 Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Pro rata between 0.5:1 and 2.25:1 In 2007, the Remuneration Committee broadened the performance condition by including headline EPS growth.
For awards made in 2007 and for future awards, vesting of 50% of shares awarded will be based on the TSR performance measure described above and 50% on headline EPS the calculation of which is shown in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements growth over a three-year period.
The two measures will operate independently.
Vesting of Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2007 and 2008 LTIP awards will be based on TSR performance in accordance with the following schedule: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Matching Shares Vesting Ratio excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below Median 0% 0 Median 12.5% 0.25:1 Upper Quintile top 20% 50% 1.125:1 Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25:1 and 1.125:1 Vesting of Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2007 and 2008 LTIP awards will be based on headline EPS growth, as compared with the compound annual growth in the Retail Prices Index RPI, in accordance with the following schedule: Matching Shares Vesting Ratio Annual Compound Headline EPS Growth above RPI Performance Shares Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below 3% 0% 0 3% 12.5% 0.25:1 At or above 10% 50% 1.125:1 Between 3% and 10% Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25:1 and 1.125:1 Matching Share awards will only vest if the Bonus Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained.
The Committee obtains independent external advice to assess whether the Company has met the TSR performance condition at the end of the relevant performance period and to confirm that the companies which make up the index and the measurement of the Companys performance are both in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Measurement of the Groups TSR takes place over a performance period commencing on the first day of Cooksons financial year in which the award is granted.
Thus, for grants made in 2007, the performance period commenced on 1 January 2007 and will end three years later, i. e. 31 December 2009.
TSR is measured as the percentage increase in a return index net of tax between the beginning and end of the performance period.
The return index at the beginning of the performance period is the average of the return index on each weekday in the three-month period prior to the start of the performance period.
The same three-month averaging method is used to ascertain the return index at the end of the performance period.
The companies will then be ranked, in descending order, according to their TSR.
If Cookson is ranked at or above median against the comparator group then some proportion of the awards is eligible to vest.
The Groups headline EPS will be calculated on a consistent basis and the Committee will have discretion to adjust for exceptional items as it deems appropriate.
Growth in headline EPS will be annualised percentage growth over the performance period comparing headline EPS for the base year, the calendar year prior to the award date, with the final year, the calendar year three years after the base year, expressed as compound annual growth, above the compound annual growth in RPI.
Prior to the vesting of any award, the Committee has also stipulated that, as an additional hurdle, it needs to be satisfied that vesting has been justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
Cookson Group plc 43 Annual Report 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP and other share incentive plans continued Allocations were made under the LTIP to the executive Directors in April 2007, as shown on page 47.
Messrs Butterworth and Salmon purchased Bonus Investment Shares under the Matching Share element of the LTIP in 2007.
In addition to the executive Directors, senior divisional and corporate executives are allocated Performance Shares under the LTIP and members of the Groups Executive Committee are also given the opportunity to participate in the Matching Shares element.
In prior years, the Group operated a number of other executive and all-employee share plans under which certain awards and options are outstanding, although neither of the current executive Directors holds options or awards under the relevant plans.
Under the executive share option schemes the Company granted share options, with an option exercise price fixed by reference to the market price prevailing at the time of grant, the exercise of which were subject to an EPS performance condition.
The last executive share option grant was made in 2003 and the Company does not intend to make any further grants under the schemes.
Under the Mid-Term Incentive Plan MTI Plan executives were eligible to receive a bonus paid partly in cash and partly in deferred shares based upon the achievement of target financial performance, measured over a three-year period.
The MTI Plan operated on a rolling three-year basis and the final remaining cycle culminated at the end of 2005.
The final tranche of shares under this plan vested in January 2008.
Both the executive share option schemes and the MTI Plan were replaced by the Companys LTIP.
In addition the Company operated UK and International Sharesave Plans.
These plans were closed to new participants in 2004.
Further details of the awards and options outstanding under these share plans are given in note 38 to the consolidated financial statements.
In 2007, the Company implemented a new Deferred Bonus Plan in place of the LTIP for certain corporate managers.
Under this plan, executives received an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus.
These shares, which will be sourced from existing shares, will vest after three years, although an executives allocation may lapse if he ceases employment in certain circumstances before the end of the three-year period.
The executive Directors do not participate in this plan.
In 2007, 13,869 shares were allocated under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Under the rules of the LTIP and executive share option schemes, the Company has the discretion to satisfy the majority of awards either by the transfer of existing shares or by the allotment of newly-issued shares.
The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by the Board, which considers the most prudent and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the Company.
Option exercises under the UK and International Sharesave plans are satisfied by the allotment of newly-issued shares.
Any awards that vest under the Deferred Bonus Plan will be met from the transfer of existing shares.
As at 31 December 2007, 637,949 shares were held in the Companys employee share ownership trust ESOP.
The Trustees of the ESOP purchase shares in the open market as required, to meet liabilities for the provision of existing shares to satisfy awards that vest.
The rules of each of Cooksons share-based incentive schemes, including the LTIP, and the pre-existing share option and Sharesave Plans, contain limitations on the total number of options over new shares that can be awarded in accordance with the ABI guidelines.
In the last 10 years less than 2% of the Companys issued share capital has been allotted to settle obligations arising from the exercise of executive share incentives.
Details of the awards outstanding under the Companys share plans as at 31 December 2007 and the associated exercise prices are given in note 38.2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Performance graph The graph below compares Cooksons TSR over the last five years with the return on the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity of the Groups businesses and is the comparator group against which Cooksons performance is measured for the TSR performance condition of the LTIP.
400 Cookson Group plc 350 300 FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts 250 200 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2007 of 100 invested in Cookson Group plc 150 on 31 December 2002 compared with the 100 value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The other points 50 plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
0 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 Cookson Group plc 44 Annual Report 2007 Value OUR GOVERNANCE Shareholding guidelines The Remuneration Committee encourages executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at least one times salary.
To this end, executive Directors will normally only be able to sell a maximum of up to 50% measured as the value after tax of any Performance Shares or Matching Shares vesting under the LTIP, until this criterion has been met.
Directors service contracts Both of the executive Directors have contractual notice periods from the Company of 12 months.
Neither of the executive Directors contracts contains any change of control provisions and they both contain a duty to mitigate should the Director find an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
A summary of the main conditions of the contracts of the Directors is as follows: Executive Directors Both of the current executive Directors have UK service contracts which have 12 months unexpired terms and provide for 12 months notice being given.
Mr Salmons contract was dated 14 June 2004 and Mr Butterworths 25 May 2005.
Each contract provides for compensation to be paid on early termination by the Company based on one times salary, pension allowance and benefits payable half in a lump sum and the balance in six separate monthly instalments commencing six months after leaving, mitigated by any salary earned from any new paid occupation.
Non-executive Directors In accordance with the Code, each non-executive Director is appointed for an initial fixed term of three years subject to their election at the Companys first AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter, subject to approval of the Board and their re-election at the appropriate AGM, they are appointed for a further three-year term.
Date of Date of AGM at which Unexpired appointment retirement term expires notice period Non-executive Directors J L Hewitt 01 06 05 2009 Not required J P Oosterveld 15 06 04 2010 Not required B W Perry 01 01 02 2011 Not required J G Sussens 01 05 04 2010 Not required The Group Chairman, Mr Beeston, was appointed on 1 April 2003 for a fixed period which was due to expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2008.
During the year his contract was extended and it is now due to expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2011.
He is entitled to 12 months notice from the Company.
Any compensation for loss of office would be based upon his annual fee.
The remaining nonexecutive Directors are not entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at any time.
All Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board sets the remuneration of the non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
The Chairmans remuneration is set by the Remuneration Committee.
External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold positions as non-executive directors of other companies provided that these do not lead to conflicts of interest.
The Board sanctions each such request on a case-by-case basis.
Fees received are retained by the executive Director concerned.
In 2007, Mr Salmon received fees of 52,000 for his role as non-executive director of United Utilities plc.
No Directors had any material interest in a contract of significance other than service agreements with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
Pension arrangements Messrs Butterworth and Salmon are not entitled to participate in any of the Groups pension arrangements.
In accordance with their contracts they received pension allowances of 25% of their respective base salaries in 2007 to enable them to make their own pension provision.
Following a review of market practice, the Remuneration Committee increased Mr Salmons pension allowance to 30% of base salary with effect from 1 January 2008.
Mr Butterworths pension allowance in 2007 amounted to 71,250 2006: 64,375, whilst Mr Salmons pension allowance in 2007 amounted to 123,000 2006: 119,375.
This information is audited by the Companys Auditor.
Cookson Group plc 45 Annual Report 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors remuneration The following table details the remuneration payable to each Director in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007, together with comparative totals in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006.
Benefits in kind comprise mainly the assessed benefits arising from the contractual payments of medical insurance, life assurance and company car allowances.
The Annual Incentive bonuses awarded to Messrs Butterworth and Salmon for 2007 were based on the Group exceeding the Maximum target level of Group headline earnings.
Details of the annual fees payable to non-executive Directors can be found on page 38.
In addition to the above, ex gratia pensions of 10,926 2006: 10,499 were paid to former Directors in 2007.
The information in the above table is audited by the Companys Auditor.
Directors interests The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2007 were as shown below: 31 Dec 31 Dec 2007 2006 Ordinary 10p shares No.
There were no changes to the Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2008 to 11 March 2008.
Full details of Directors shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys registered office during business hours.
None of the Directors, nor their spouses nor minor children, held non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
Cookson Group plc 46 Annual Report 2007 OUR GOVERNANCE LTIP allocations Details of the executive Directors allocations of shares under the LTIP are shown in the table below: Number of Number of Total Performance Matching Total allocations Shares Shares Shares allocations Market outstanding allocated allocated lapsed outstanding price of as at 31 during during during as at shares on Dec 2006 the year the year the year 31 Dec 2007 day before Performance Vesting 1 1 2 4,5 Director, grant date and type of award No.
The allocations were calculated based upon the closing mid-market price of Cookson shares on the day before the awards were made.
The 2007 allocations were made to Messrs Butterworth and Salmon on 3 April 2007.
Cooksons mid-market closing price on this date was 635.50p.
The July 2004 and April 2005 market prices shown for shares on the day before the awards have been multiplied by 10 to reflect the impact of the share consolidation on 26 May 2005 on the Companys share price.
On this date every 10 ordinary 1p shares held by shareholders were exchanged for 1 new 10p ordinary share.
The performance criteria which apply to the vesting of share allocations under the LTIP are summarised on page 43.
The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2004 ended on 31 December 2006.
The Companys TSR performance during the 3-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Companys performance was below median.
Accordingly the 2004 LTIP awards did not vest on 29 July 2007 and the awards lapsed.
The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2005 ended on 31 December 2007.
The Companys TSR performance during the 3-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Companys performance was above the upper quintile.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the vesting of these awards is justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
Accordingly the 2005 LTIP awards will vest fully on the third anniversaries of their award dates.
The mid-market closing price of the Companys shares ranged between 577.5p and 874.5p during 2007.
On 31 December 2007 the mid-market closing price of the Companys shares was 697p.
On behalf of the Board John G Sussens Chairman, Remuneration Committee 11 March 2008 Cookson Group plc 47 Annual Report 2007
