XCHANGING PLC Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Report covers the 12 month period to 31 December 2007.
It shows remuneration paid to Directors over that period by Xchanging BV prior to Admission to the London Stock Exchange on 30 April 2007 and by Xchanging plc post Admission.
This part of the Remuneration Report the bonus maximum will be increased to is unaudited.
150% for Executive Directors to reflect the continued high growth targets.
The Foreword bonus will be paid on a graduated scale, Xchanging knows that its people are key and linked to stretching profit before tax the primary factor in the overall success of the targets, with 70% payable on achievement Company.
Xchangings policy aligns the of the high growth targets and 130% remuneration structure with business payable on achievement of the superior objectives and individual performance so that growth targets.
For the Executive Directors, it can attract, motivate and retain executives aggressive revenue growth targets are of the highest calibre to achieve a high also applied.
If revenue targets are not performing management culture, known as achieved, then the bonus will be adjusted the Xchanging Way, enabling Xchanging to downwards.
Twenty percent of the bonus become the pre-eminent global business maximum for all Executive Directors will processing services company.
be reserved for compliance with the Xchanging Way.
The Xchanging Way The Remuneration Committee has reviewed ensures that the executive team drives the total remuneration packages for Executive the right behaviours, the Xchanging Directors, paying particular attention to values and an organisation structure that ensuring that the total remuneration package achieves success has the right balance of incentives to the long-term variable element will be encourage and reward superior performance.
delivered via the Performance Share Plan, Specifically we have: which will contain stretching performance a remuneration strategy that encourages conditions, graduated on a scale from and rewards high performance and median through to upper decile, relative minimises the risk of attrition among the to Total Shareholder Return performance management team who are key in subject also to the achievement of a generating returns to shareholders minimum level of real earnings per a fixed pay policy that ensures the share growth.
Company is competitive in its particular market for talent The Remuneration Committee believes that the a variable pay policy that rewards superior policy is aligned to Xchangings business performance in terms of both annual objectives and the interests of the shareholders.
underlying financial performance and The Remuneration Committee will continue to longer term generation of above market monitor performance against the total returns to shareholders.
remuneration policy closely to ensure that it achieves its aim in attracting, motivating and The overall guideline is to reward the executive retaining the senior management talent that team towards the upper quartile level of total are required to develop the Company.
remuneration of the FTSE 250 comparator group, provided that superior performance 1 Remuneration Committee is achieved.
Specifically, the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee, the terms of Committee has approved the following reference for which can be found under the for 2008: Corporate Governance section of the the fixed pay element will be positioned so Xchanging website, is appointed by the Board.
that the Company is not at a disadvantage Its primary purpose is to review the ongoing when recruiting and retaining key talent appropriateness of the remuneration policy as it from a highly competitive market applies to the Executive Directors and key senior management, make recommendations on the 44 Remuneration Report ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 framework for their remuneration, and to The only guaranteed payment to Executive determine their specific remuneration packages.
Directors is their base salary.
Therefore, a In addition, the Remuneration Committee is significant proportion of Executive Director responsible for monitoring the remuneration remuneration is linked to corporate and strategy and policy of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee consists of the Remuneration packages for the Executive following Non-Executive Directors: Nigel Rich, Directors consist of base salary, annual bonus, John Bramley, Stephen Brenninkmeijer, Dennis awards under long-term incentive schemes Millard and Tom Tinsley.
They are all deemed and other benefits.
The Executive Directors independent, with the exception of Tom Tinsley have never participated in any of the Groups who is an appointee of General Atlantic, a pension schemes and have formally waived founding shareholder of Xchanging.
However, their right to do so.
as he sits on the Board of a number of companies, his experience of remuneration Base salary issues is considered invaluable to the Salaries are reviewed annually each January by Committee.
John Robins was a member of the the Remuneration Committee based on Committee until he stepped down in independently supplied data on salaries paid December 2007.
The Chairman of the to senior executives within the FTSE 250.
Remuneration Committee is Nigel Rich.
The Salaries are also set with due account given to Company Secretary is secretary to the Group performance, individual performance, Remuneration Committee.
Only Committee market competitiveness and changes in members and the Company Secretary except responsibilities.
The Company is under no when his own remuneration is being directly obligation to award an increase.
considered are entitled to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
However, the The base salaries of the Executive Directors, Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive for the 2008 financial year will be as follows: Officer, Group HR Director, Legal Counsel and David Andrews 585,000 others may attend by invitation.
Richard Houghton 411,000 Adele Browne 377,000 The Remuneration Committee met five times in 2007.
All members were present with the These salary levels along with those of other exception of Stephen Brenninkmeijer who key senior managers have been set by the was absent for the second meeting.
The Remuneration Committee taking full account Remuneration Committee continued to receive of the factors set out above and, in particular, advice from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP the vital contribution of this executive in respect of market data, market practice, management team to the Groups success and governance and advice on long-term incentives their very extensive experience in the Groups schemes.
New Bridge Street provides no other business sphere.
Annual bonus 2 Remuneration policy for Executive Bonuses payable for performance in 2007 are Directors set out in the emoluments table below and Total remuneration is benchmarked against reflect another year of strong performance.
relevant FTSE 250 market peers and also takes 80% of the bonus entitlement for 2007 was account of pay levels offered at non-listed dependent on the achievement of financial professional business consultancies who are performance targets.
Financial performance viewed as competing for the same management was based on the achievement of specific talent.
Xchanging also takes into account the XPBT and sales targets.
In the event, the appropriate geographic and nationality basis for Groups growth targets were achieved, on determining competitive remuneration.
which the annual bonuses were based, with Footnotes XPBT is adjusted profit before taxation attributable to equity holders of the Group.
Adjusted profit before taxation excludes exceptional items and certain non-cash items, which comprise share-based payment charges of 0.5m 2006: 0.5m, amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by acquired entities, imputed interest charges on the historic funding structure of the Group which fell away on Admission, imputed interest on put options and imputed interest on employee loans.
Remuneration Report 45 XCHANGING PLC Remuneration Report continued XPBT growth of 43.3% and revenue growth the recruitment or retention of an employee.
The balance of 20% was dependent No awards were made under the PSP in 2007. on achievement of measurable personal However, it is intended that awards will be performance objectives.
made to Executive Directors and other members of the senior management team in 2008.
For For the year 2008, the maximum bonus Executive Directors, a basic award will be made entitlement will be 150% of salary.
The over shares worth 100% of base salary.
Twentymaximum bonus entitlement will comprise: five percent of this basic award will vest if the 130% based on Xchangings share of profit Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR is before tax XPBT and 20% based on equal to the median TSR of the constituents of measurable personal performance objectives.
the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts Additionally, aggressive revenue growth at the end of a fixed three year period.
Full targets have also been set which, if not vesting of basic awards will occur for TSR achieved, would lead to a reduction of performance at or above upper quartile.
In up to 50% in the bonus entitlement addition, the Executive Directors will receive a should the revenue target not be reached.
stretch award of a further 50% of salary.
Stretch awards will begin to vest at the upper quartile This maximum bonus opportunity reflects the against the comparator group, with full vesting Remuneration Committees wish that a only in return for upper decile performance.
In significant portion of the Executive Directors addition, both basic and stretch awards will only pay be at risk if profit and revenue targets are vest if the Companys annual average EPS not met and with a full bonus payable only for growth over the relevant three year period is no truly outstanding performance.
Long-term incentive plans The Remuneration Committee believes that The Company established a number of share the TSR-based performance conditions that incentive plans around the time of Admission, will apply to basic and stretch awards, namely an Approved and Unapproved together with the related EPS growth Executive Share Option Plan the ESOP and a condition, ensure that the Executive Directors Performance Share Plan the PSP.
Other share are further incentivised to deliver outstanding plans, namely the Share Purchase Plan and returns to shareholders while also enhancing earlier Approved, Unapproved and Unapproved underlying financial performance.
The extent G Share Options Plans were also in existence at to which the performance conditions are Admission but no further awards will be made achieved will be determined by the under these plans.
Remuneration Committee having received appropriate third party advice.
Executive Share Option Plan ESOP No ESOP awards were granted to the Share Purchase Plan SPP Executive Directors in 2007.
There are no At the start of 2007, prior to the listing of plans to make further ESOP awards to Xchanging plc, certain Executive Directors and Executive Directors unless as a reward for members of senior management purchased entrepreneurial achievement as outlined in Class F Common Shares in Xchanging BV, section 3 below.
ESOPs may also be granted under the terms of the SPP, at the prevailing to new senior employees.
market price equivalent to 1.33 following the four-for-one share split at IPO.
The Performance Share Plan PSP Xchanging BV 2007 Employee Benefit Trust The Remuneration Committee intends that the provided non-interest bearing loans to the PSP will be the primary vehicle through which participants to enable them to fund the share-based long-term incentives are offered to purchase of the Class F Common Shares.
Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Participants in the SPP may not normally sell, Under the PSP, conditional awards of shares or transfer or otherwise dispose of the shares phantom shares where tax regulatory conditions awarded for a period of 18 months from make it more appropriate may be made worth issue.
No further awards will be made under up to 150% of salary each year or 300% of the SPP.
The share awards are subject to salary in exceptional circumstances relating to continued employment for a period of 46 Remuneration Report ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 th 18 months from the date of grant although 65 birthday and as long as they remain the employee benefit trust may re-purchase employees of Xchanging.
In addition, and as any shares awarded at the current market described earlier, the Executive Directors were value for good leavers.
made awards under the Share Purchase Plan.
With the exception of David Andrews, Other benefits non-interest bearing loans were provided The Executive Directors are eligible to to the Executive Directors.
The loans become participate in benefits plans on the same repayable on the earliest of the employee basis as other employees.
However, they ceasing employment, the employee have waived their right to join the Groups transferring or otherwise disposing of their defined contribution pension arrangements.
shares or attempting to do so, the employee accepting another loan from a member of The Executive Directors are entitled to receive the Group to re-finance the loan and the 25 days holiday per annum in addition to long stop date of 31 December 2011. public holidays and are eligible to receive other benefits including life assurance, permanent 3 Dilution and the pre-IPO share pool for health insurance and are eligible to join entrepreneurial achievement Xchangings private medical insurance scheme As disclosed in Xchangings IPO prospectus, in accordance with the scheme terms and 4,006,388 shares authorised by shareholders conditions under which cover is provided.
prior to Admission, but not allocated to They are covered by the Groups life assurance employees at that time, may be placed under and permanent health insurance scheme, option or issued under the Companys share which provides, free of charge, a benefit equal incentive plans without counting towards the to four times their basic salary at the time of ongoing dilution limits.
The Remuneration their death and 75% of their basic salary Committee has subsequently approved that should they be off work due to a critical illness such pool of options will be awarded to for 26 continuous weeks, subject always to employees in recognition of entrepreneurial the terms and conditions of the policies under achievement or to new senior employees.
which such cover is to be provided and to In 2007, a total of 285,443 options have been them satisfying such requirements as the granted to two senior managers in recognition insurer may impose prior to its granting cover.
These benefits are valid until they reach their 4 Total shareholder return performance graph 135 130 125 120 115 110 105 100 95 90 85 25 Apr 07 31 Dec 07 Xchanging plc Daily FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Index Daily Xchanging plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Index Source: Thomson Financial Remuneration Report 47 Value XCHANGING PLC Remuneration Report continued This chart depicts the value at 31 December is dependent on Deutsche Brse year end 2007 of 100 invested in Xchanging plc at the results, after approval at the Deutsche Brse IPO price of 2.40 compared to 100 invested Annual General Meeting in May 2008.
The in the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Remuneration Committee has agreed retention from the date of the IPO price setting 25 April of the payments by David Andrews.
The chart also shows the daily Executive Director has held an external Xchanging share and FTSE 250 excluding Non-Executive Director position.
investment trusts index price movements.
The FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts has 7 Non-Executive Directors been chosen as the comparator index because The Non-Executive Directors including the Xchanging is a member of this FTSE index.
Chairman of the Company have agreed terms of appointment with the Company which took 5 Service contracts effect from Admission on 30 April 2007.
The The Executive Directors entered into new letters of appointment are all dated 2 April 2007 service agreements with the Company which and are for a fixed term of three years.
The took effect on Admission to the London Stock Chairmans appointment may be terminated by Exchange on 30 April 2007.
Executive Directors either party upon six months notice.
All other have service contracts with notice periods of Non-Executive Directors appointments may be 12 months from either the Director or the terminated by either party upon three months Company.
This is in line with best practice for written notice.
The appointment of Tom Tinsley listed companies.
The Company has the right and David Hodgson as Non-Executive Directors to elect to terminate the employment of the is also subject to the terms of a Relationship Executive Director without notice or with less Deed, entered into between the Company and than 12 months notice by making a payment General Atlantic, details of which are set out in in lieu of notice equal to the base salary the the Prospectus.
The appointment of each of Executive Director would be entitled to receive the Non-Executive Directors does not give rise during any unexpired period of the notice to any entitlement to compensation in respect period.
The Executive Directors service of their termination.
contracts do not contain provisions for compensation in the event of early The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors will termination.
In the event of termination, the be reviewed regularly.
In setting the fees, Executive Directors lose their entitlement to independent external advice is sought on receive any bonus payment.
However, the current market practice with account taken of Remuneration Committee may, at its complete time commitment and responsibility.
The fees discretion, choose to make an award.
payable to Non-Executive Directors are ratified by the Board, based on the recommendations 6 Fees retained for Non-Executive of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Directorships The policy on Non-Executive Directorships is that At the next AGM, Stephen Brenninkmeijer will the Chief Executive Officer may hold up to two retire by rotation and seek re-appointment.
Non-Executive Directorships and other Executive He has a three-year service contract which is Directors may hold one position each.
Directors due to expire on 29 April 2010. may retain any fees payable to them with the consent of the Remuneration Committee, This part of the Remuneration Report except in the case where the Directorship is is audited.
as a representative of the Company.
8 Directors remuneration During the year David Andrews was a Total emoluments in respect of the 12 month Non-Executive Director and member of the period ending 31 December 2007 paid by Deutsche Brse Supervisory Board until April Xchanging BV prior to Admission on 30 April 2007.
He will receive a payment of 49,000 2007 and by the Company from Admission plus a variable component of 16,000 which are as follows: 48 Remuneration Report ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Directors remuneration For the financial year ended 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Name Base salary and fees Bonus Benefits Total Total Executive Directors David Andrews 535,600 324,618 14,262 874,480 511,408 Richard Houghton 360,000 340,590 52,604 753,194 337,761 Adele Browne 330,000 188,100 37,153 555,253 306,483 Non-Executive Directors John Robins 125,000 125,000 125,000 Nigel Rich 82,221 82,221 25,000 John Bramley 40,000 40,000 40,000 Stephen Brenninkmeijer 40,000 40,000 40,000 David Hodgson 26,667 26,667 Friedrich Carl Janssen 26,667 26,667 2,635 Johannes Maret 103,967 103,967 34,077 Dennis Millard 50,000 50,000 46,936 Tom Tinsley 26,667 26,667 Friedrich Carl Janssen fees are as at his retirement on 20 December 2007.
The amounts paid in 2006 to Friedrich Carl Janssen relate to fees payable for his participation as a supervisory board member.
This arrangement came to an end in September 2006.
The amount paid to Johannes Maret in the year to 31 December 2007 comprises three separate tranches.
Fees of 26,667 2006: nil have been paid in respect of the period April to December 2007 for his services as a Director of Xchanging plc.
Additionally, base fees of 12,500 and 18,750 have paid under the terms of the special adviser agreements.
The 18,750 2006: nil relates to the annual 25,000 fee payable under the revised special adviser agreement dated 26 March 2007 as detailed below, while the 12,500 2006: 50,000 was payable under the terms of the previous consultancy agreement this entitled Johannes to an annual fee of 50,000.
This balance has been converted into sterling at the average exchange rate for the year 1.46206.
Finally, a payment of 50,000 2006: nil has been made in accordance with the revised special adviser agreement as consideration for his contribution to business development.
It is detailed in the notes below.
Notes In addition to his letter of appointment, The fee paid to John Robins was in relation Johannes Maret has entered into a special to his appointment as Chairman of the adviser agreement with Xchanging GmbH Board and Chairman of the Nominations dated 26 March 2007 pursuant to which Committee Johannes Maret assists the Group in the The fee paid to Nigel Rich was in relation to development of the Groups customer base his appointment as Deputy Chairman of in Germany and other countries in Europe.
the Board, Senior Independent Director and Johannes Maret receives the following Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
under the terms of the special adviser Nigel Richs revised fee of 82,500 was agreement with Xchanging GmbH: effective from 16 January 2007 a fee of 25,000 per annum payable The fee paid to Dennis Millard included a in quarterly installments fee of 10,000 in relation to his in relation to each potential customer appointment as chair of the Audit or partner in respect of whom Committee Johannes Maret has assisted the The fee paid to David Hodgson, Tom Tinsley, Group, a fee of 200,000 on each Johannes Maret and Friedrich Carl Janssen occasion that a member of the Group relate to fees paid since 30 April 2007 signs a contract with a customer or In addition to the fees and benefits partner with an annual value to the mentioned above, the Company will Group in excess of 100 million reimburse all expenses reasonably incurred by the Non-Executive Directors in the performance of their duties and the Group has obtained appropriate directors and officers liability insurance Remuneration Report 49 XCHANGING PLC Remuneration Report continued in relation to each potential customer or partner in respect of whom Johannes Maret has assisted the Group, a fee of 50,000 on each occasion that a member of the Group signs a contract with such customer or partner with an annual value to the Group of less than 100million, but greater than 30 million Johannes Marets special adviser agreement is subject to termination by either party giving no less than three months notice in writing.
9 Share options and long-term incentive schemes Details of share options granted in respect of qualifying services are outlined below.
More detailed information on the awards, their conversion from awards over shares in Xchanging BV to awards over shares in Xchanging plc following Admission and the performance conditions are set out following the below tables and under long-term incentive plans on pages 46 and 47.
Xchanging share options Approved scheme Number of Number of Granted Exercised options at Exercise Date from options at during during 31 December price which Director 1 January 2007 the year the year 2007 exercisable Expiry date Richard Houghton 85,180 85,180 0.33 24 11 2006 24 11 2013 Adele Browne 85,180 85,180 0.33 24 11 2006 24 11 2013 Adele Browne exercised her options when the market value of the share was 3.03.
Johannes Maret became entitled to exercise the option over 40,000 ordinary shares as consideration for his contribution to business development.
All options exercises above occurred when the market price of the shares was 2.25.
50 Remuneration Report ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 The market price of the Companys shares on 31 December 2007 was 2.80.
The highest and lowest market prices during the year for each share under option that was unexpired at the end of the year was 3.17 and 1.33 which is an Xchanging BV share price stated on an Xchanging plc equivalent basis per share respectively.
The options shown have no performance conditions attached.
They were all issued prior to IPO.
All options issued after IPO will be subject to performance conditions.
Explanatory Notes on Directors In addition, and pursuant to the Re-organisation shareholdings and share options of the share capital of the Company, each Background ordinary share in Xchanging plc was split into Prior to Admission, the ultimate holding four ordinary shares in Xchanging plc the Share company of the Group was Xchanging BV.
All option exercise prices were also divided options were granted over shares in Xchanging by four to take account of this Share Split.
On Admission of Xchanging plc on 30 April 2007, the following events occurred in order to More detail on the Re-organisation, the Option effect the insertion of Xchanging plc as the Rollover, the Share for Share Exchange and the ultimate holding company of the Group above Share Split can be found in Part 8 Additional Xchanging BV the Re-organisation : Information of the listing Prospectus.
a following agreement by all option holders, all options over shares in Xchanging BV Notes to tables of Directors shareholdings and were exchanged for options over ordinary share options shares of equivalent value in Xchanging For clarity and ease of reference: plc and the exercise prices of such share a all numbers of shares shown in the above options were converted from Euros to tables as held, disposed of or issued are, to Sterling at the agreed conversion rate the extent that such shares were shares in the Option Rollover Xchanging BV prior to the Re-organisation, b following agreement by all shareholders, shown as the equivalent number of ordinary all shares held in Xchanging BV were shares in Xchanging plc following the Share exchanged for ordinary shares of for Share Exchange and the Share Split equivalent value in Xchanging plc the Share for Share Exchange.
Remuneration Report 51 XCHANGING PLC Remuneration Report continued b all numbers of share options shown in the The trustee of the Xchanging Employee above tables as held, granted or exercised Benefit Trust is Ogier Employee Benefit Trustee are, to the extent that such share options Limited, an independent professional trustee were options over shares in Xchanging BV situated in Jersey.
The Xchanging Employee prior to the Re-organisation, shown as the Benefit Trust is a discretionary trust for the equivalent number of options over ordinary benefit of such employees of Xchanging BV shares in Xchanging plc following the and its subsidiaries as the trustees decide.
Option Rollover and the Share Split The Xchanging Employee Benefit Trust does c all exercise prices for share options are not hold any shares.
shown as the Sterling exercise prices following the conversion from Euros The trustee of the Xchanging BV 2007 pursuant to the Option Rollover and Employee Benefit Trust is Ogier Employee the Share Split.
Benefit Trustee Limited, an independent professional trustee situated in Jersey.
The Employee Benefit Trusts Xchanging BV 2007 Employee Benefit Trust Xchanging has three Employee Benefit Trusts.
is a discretionary trust for the benefit of The Infrex Employee Share Trust, the such employees of Xchanging UK Limited Xchanging Employee Benefit Trust and the as the trustees decide.
The Xchanging BV Xchanging BV 2007 Employee Benefit Trust.
2007 Employee Benefit Trust does not hold any shares.
The trustees of the Infrex Employee Share Trust are David Andrews and John Bramley.
Approved on behalf of the Board of Directors The Infrex Employee Share Trust is a discretionary trust for the benefit of employees of Xchanging UK Limited and its Nigel Rich subsidiaries as the trustees decide.
The Infrex Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Employee Share Trust holds 191,108 shares.
