Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 121 Remuneration Report Information not subject to audit Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Willy Strothotte and its other members are David Rough and Paul Hazen, all of whom are non-executive directors.
The Board recognises that Willy Strothotte is not an independent non-executive director as defined by the Code, but regards his membership as critical to the workings of the Committee due to his extensive knowledge and experience of the global mining resources sector.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the structure of remuneration for executive directors on an ongoing basis and has responsibility for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of specific remuneration packages for executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee, including salaries, pension rights, bonuses, long-term incentives, benefits in kind and any compensation payments.
The Committee is also aware of the level and structure of remuneration for senior management and advises on any major changes in employee remuneration and benefit structures throughout the Group, including the continuous review of incentive schemes to ensure that they remain appropriate for the Group.
The Remuneration Committee commits to bringing independent thought and scrutiny to the development and review process of the Group with regards to remuneration.
The Committee met three times during 2007.
The Chairman will continue to ensure that the Group maintains contact, as necessary, with its principal shareholders about remuneration.
The purpose and function of the Committee in the future will not differ materially from this year and its terms of reference can be found on the Groups website www.
The remuneration of non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, will be considered by the Chairman and the Chief Executive and will not be considered by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairmans remuneration will be determined by the Remuneration Committee while the Chairman is absent.
The Chief Executive attends the Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation and assists the Remuneration Committee in its considerations, except when issues relating to his own remuneration are discussed.
The Remuneration Committee is provided with national and international pay data collected from external survey providers.
During the year, Hay Group provided independent advice to the Remuneration Committee on executive remuneration.
The Group also uses the Hay Group method for determining salaries for positions below the Executive Committee.
The Hay Group provided no other services to the Group during 2007.
Remuneration policy Xstratas remuneration policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate the highly talented individuals needed to deliver the business strategy and to maximise shareholder wealth creation.
The policy for 2008 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years, will be framed around the following principles for the Executive Committee: Remuneration arrangements will be designed to support the business strategy and to align with the interests of Xstratas shareholders: Total reward levels will be set at appropriate levels to reflect the competitive global market in which Xstrata operates with the intention of positioning within the top quartile for outstanding performance when measured against a peer group of global mining companies and the FTSE100: A high proportion of the remuneration should be at risk with performance related remuneration making up at least 50% of the total potential remuneration for Executive Committee members: and 122 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Remuneration Report Performance-related payments will be subject to the satisfaction of demanding and stretching performance targets over the short and long term.
These performance targets will be set in the context of the prospects of the Group, the prevailing economic environment in which it operates, and the relative performance of comparator companies.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the business environment and in remuneration practices.
Consequently, the remuneration policy and the Remuneration Committees terms of reference for subsequent years will be reviewed annually in the light of matters such as changes to corporate governance best practice or changes to accounting, legislation or business practices among peer group mining companies.
This will help to ensure that the policy continues to provide Xstrata with a competitive reward strategy.
In doing so, the Committee will take into account the UK Listing Rules, the provisions of the Code and associated guidance attached to it, as well as the guidance provided by a number of institutional investor representative bodies on the design of performance-related remuneration.
Policies will be sensitive to pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that Xstratas pay and employment conditions for non-Board employees around the world are appropriate to the various markets in which it operates.
The Remuneration Committee does not consider a ratio comparison between executive directors and non-Board employees to be a useful way of assessing the fairness and equitability of Xstratas remuneration practices.
The vastly different costs of living in the countries where Xstrata has operations and fluctuations in exchange rates mean any such trend analysis or comparisons with competitors would be meaningless.
Elements of remuneration The total remuneration package for executive directors comprises the following principal elements: base salary: annual bonus plan including deferred element: participation in long-term incentive arrangements: subsisting rights under the Xstrata AG share scheme in relation to individual arrangements as detailed below : pension: and other benefits including housing allowance where essential for the performance of duties, permanent health, life and private medical insurance.
Base salary The base salary of the executive directors is subject to annual review by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee reviews external pay data to ensure that the levels of remuneration remain competitive and appropriate in the light of the Groups policy.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for ensuring that the positioning of the Groups remuneration relative to its peers does not result in increases in remuneration without a corresponding increase in performance or responsibilities.
When setting base salaries, the Committee also considers the impact on pension contributions and associated costs.
During 2007, with effect from 1 January 2007 base salary increases for Mick Davis, Trevor Reid and Santiago Zaldumbide were 10%, 9% and 6% respectively.
Base salaries effective 1 January 2008 will be GBP1,250,000, GBP625,000 and EUR932,000, representing increases of 13.63%, 21.81% and 6% respectively on salaries paid during 2007.
Santiago Zaldumbides professional services agreement with Asturiana dated 29 January 1998 was terminated by agreement on 23 July 2007.
Santiago Zaldumbide received a sum of EUR2,003,216 from the redemption of an insurance policy acquired by Asturiana for a premium of EUR3,005,060.
Concurrently with the payment of that sum to Santiago Zaldumbide, the insurance company returned the premium to Asturiana.
The sum received by Santiago Zaldumbide under the insurance policy is in lieu of his receiving pension benefits.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 123 Also on 23 July 2007, Santiago Zaldumbide entered into a new professional services agreement with Asturiana to act as Chairman and Chief Executive of Asturiana and Chief Executive Officer of Xstrata Zinc.
The agreement is in force from the date of signature 23 July 2007 and continues thereafter indefinitely unless terminated by one of the parties giving the other written notice of no less than six months.
The annual gross fee for Fiscal year 2007 was EUR879,217.
This annual fee is subject to review in line with the other executive directors.
Santiago Zaldumbides appointment as a director of Xstrata is subject to the existence of the agreement between Santiago Zaldumbide and Asturiana.
Santiago Zaldumbide will receive no additional remuneration for his position as director of Xstrata but is eligible to participate in the Bonus Plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Bonus Plan Executive directors and the other members of the Executive Committee are eligible to participate in the Bonus Plan.
The Bonus Plan focuses on the achievement of annual objectives, which align the short-term financial and operational performance of the Group with the creation of shareholder value.
The bonus is based on Xstratas operational performance as measured by return on equity and net profit.
Specific targets for return on equity and the proportion of net profits that make up the bonus pool are determined each year by the Remuneration Committee.
Before the pool is finalised the Remuneration Committee actively considers whether the pool is appropriate in light of the other key financial and non-financial drivers of future shareholder value.
The payment of any bonus under the Bonus Plan is subject to a hurdle rate for the financial years ending 31 December 2007 and 2008 it will be set such that the Groups return on equity will be at least equal to the Groups average cost of borrowing.
If this hurdle is not reached, the bonus pool will be zero.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to vary the basis of calculation and the performance targets for subsequent years.
The amount of the bonus pool that is distributed in any one year, and the relative proportions payable to each participant or, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, to a trust for his her benefit will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Individual performance criteria have been agreed with each participant, which include non-financial criteria, such as safety performance.
These criteria will be evaluated by the Committee in determining individual allocations from the bonus pool.
The maximum bonus payable under the Bonus Plan for executive directors is 300% of salary.
The highest level of bonus will only be available for truly outstanding performance.
Bonuses will be payable in up to three tranches, as follows.
The maximum bonus which any one participant is eligible to receive in cash will be limited to 100% of the individuals base salary.
Any additional bonus up to a further 100% of base salary will be deferred for a period of one year.
Any remaining bonus will be deferred for a period of two years.
The deferred elements take the form of conditional awards of Xstrata shares which vest subject to the participant remaining in employment throughout the deferral period.
The number of shares awarded will be determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the date concurrent awards under the LTIP are made.
There is no intention to use newly issued ordinary shares for the Bonus Plan and any shares required for the satisfaction of deferred bonuses will be acquired by market purchase.
124 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Remuneration Report Long-Term Incentive Arrangements All equity based awards are subject to an overall limitation on the number of shares issued, transferred from treasury, or that remain issueable pursuant to awards of 10% within any ten-year period after the listing date.
Added Value Incentive Plan The Added Value Incentive Plan AVP is designed to incentivise the Chief Executive by providing a share of the long-term value he creates for shareholders over and above the value created by Xstratas peer companies and to create alignment with shareholders by means of share ownership.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Chief Executive has a unique role in delivering value to shareholders through the efficient utilisation of Xstratas assets and by making value enhancing acquisitions and divestments.
For this reason, membership of the AVP is restricted to the current Chief Executive and any future successor in that role.
The Chief Executives participation in the AVP is contingent on his building up and maintaining a holding of at least 350,000 ordinary Xstrata shares.
The holding may be met through shares held beneficially and, subject to the agreement of the Remuneration Committee, fully vested share options that have not yet been exercised and which have exercise prices materially below the market share price at the commencement of the relevant plan cycle.
The Chief Executive will not be eligible for awards under the Xstrata plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP in any year when an AVP cycle commences.
The LTIP will continue in force for other executive directors and other employees at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Payments under the AVP will be based upon the growth in total shareholder return TSR over a three-year performance period relative to an index of global mining companies, which form the Xstrata TSR Index.
At the end of each performance period an Excess Return figure is calculated, which quantifies the difference in TSR between the Xstrata TSR Index and Xstrata.
The Excess Return is applied to the market capitalisation of Xstrata at the start of the performance period to measure the Added Value relative to the movement in the market.
The Added Value is currently limited to 50% of the initial market capitalisation.
Any excess outperformance is carried forward to the AVP cycle beginning concurrently.
The market capitalisation of Xstrata at the start of the 2005 AVP cycle was GBP6,026,084,544, at the start of the 2006 AVP cycle was GBP10,692,600,350 and at the start of the 2007 AVP cycle was GBP23,442,174,802.
If the Added Value is negative i. e. Xstrata has underperformed the index there will be no payments from the AVP.
If this figure is positive, it will be multiplied by a Participation Percentage which is 0.5% of the Added Value for the 2005 AVP Cycle, and 0.3% for the 2006 and 2007 AVP Cycles to calculate the Base Reward.
The maximum aggregate Participation Percentage for AVP Cycles commencing in any three-year period may not exceed 1.1%.
The Remuneration Committee recognises that the absolute value received by shareholders is higher when outperforming a rising market than outperforming a market which is static or falling.
The Base Reward will be increased or decreased in line with the Xstrata Share Price Index.
This will ensure that higher payments are delivered for higher levels of absolute performance, as is the case with an orthodox share option or performance share plan.
The adjustment is in line with index performance rather than Xstratas to avoid duplicating Xstratas outperformance of the index.
A reduction will then be made for lower levels of absolute performance, by applying a multiplier to the indexed Base Reward to calculate the Final Reward, as follows: Xstrata absolute TSR over 3 years Multiplier 25% or above 1x 0% 0.5 x 25% or below 0.0 x Straight-line interpolation will apply between these points, for example, if absolute TSR over three years were minus 10%, a multiplier of 0.3 would be applied.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 125 Provided Xstratas TSR is at least equal to that of the Xstrata TSR Index, the Final Reward under each plan cycle will be at least USD 1,000,000.
The Xstrata TSR and Share Price Indices will be weighted by market capitalisation.
For the 2005 AVP Cycle, the group comprised 19 global mining firms consisting of Xstratas key competitors for both financial and human capital.
These were: Alcoa Inc, Alcan Inc, Anglo American plc, Arch Coal Inc, BHP Billiton plc, Coal & Allied Industries Ltd. Elkem ASA, Eramet SA, Grupo Mexico SA fide CV, Inco Ltd, Korea Zinc Inc, Lonmin plc, Falconbridge Ltd, Norddeutsche Affinerie AG, Peabody Energy Corp, Phelps Dodge Corp, Rio Tinto plc, Teck Cominco Ltd and Umicore SA.
All data are converted into the common currency of US Dollars.
The 2006 AVP Cycle used the same companies with the exception of Elkem ASA.
For the 2007 AVP Cycle, the same group was used as in 2006 with the exception of Inco Limited, Falconbridge Limited and Phelps Dodge Corp.
It is proposed to use the same group for the 2008 AVP Cycle.
In the event of one or more constituents undergoing a take-over, merger, dissolution, variation in capital or any other event that will materially affect calculation of an Index, the Remuneration Committee shall determine how this should be reflected in the Index calculation.
The Remuneration Committee may add other relevant competitors to the Index if required.
For the 2007 and 2008 AVP Cycles the Remuneration Committee has determined that the remaining constituents of the Indices are sufficient to allow the plan to operate on a meaningful basis, notwithstanding consolidation in the global mining sector since the inception of the AVP.
At the end of the three-year performance period, 50% of the Final Reward will vest immediately.
The vesting of the remainder will be deferred in equal tranches for further one and two years.
Payments under the AVP may be settled in cash or shares as determined by the Remuneration Committee at the date of payment.
In the event of a change of control all open AVP Cycles vest immediately and the Final Reward is calculated as if the performance period ended on the date of the transaction.
2005 AVP cycle As at 31 December 2007, the growth of Xstratas TSR was 351%, the growth of the Xstrata TSR Index was 196%, and the growth of the Xstrata Share Price Index was 182%, as calculated under the AVP for the 2005 Plan Cycle.
This performance represents an outperformance of 155%, or additional value to shareholders of GBP9.37 billion.
2006 AVP cycle As at 31 December 2007, the growth of Xstratas TSR was 175%, the growth of the Xstrata TSR index was 92%, and the growth of the Xstrata Share Price Index was 86%, as calculated under the AVP for the 2006 Plan Cycle.
This performance represents an outperformance of 84%, or additional value to shareholders of GBP8.95 billion.
2007 AVP cycle As at 31 December 2007, the growth of Xstratas TSR was 51%, the growth of the Xstrata TSR index was 52%, and the growth of the Xstrata Share Price Index was 50%, as calculated under the AVP for the 2007 Plan Cycle.
This performance represents an under-performance of 1%, or decrease in value to shareholders of GBP0.34 billion.
126 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Remuneration Report AVP Changes The Remuneration Committee is proposing certain changes to the AVP which are summarised below and contained in the circular in the Notice of Annual General Meeting to achieve even better alignment to the objectives underlying the AVP.
If these changes are approved by shareholders, both existing and future AVP cycles will be split into two phases and performance will be measured over five years and a reward will be delivered at the end of three years as now with an additional reward for continued outperformance at the end of five years.
The second phase will replace the existing carry-forward provisions.
The calculation of Added Value for Phase 1 at the end of the three-year performance period will be based on the greater of the capped Excess Return or 2 3 of the uncapped Excess Return.
Phase 2 extends the performance period from three years to five years and replaces the carry-forward provisions.
Added Value for Phase 2 will be recalculated at the end of five years from the original award based on Xstratas outperformance of the Index over five years to the extent that this exceeds the outperformance taken into account in calculating the Added Value that was rewarded at the end of three years.
As now, 25% of payments for Phase 1 will continue to be deferred for one further year and 25% for two further years, in both cases indexed to the Xstrata share price over the period of deferral.
In addition, 50% of payments for Phase 2 will be deferred for a further one year and indexed to the Xstrata share price over the period of deferral.
As now, all payments under the AVP may be paid in the form of Xstrata shares or cash, as the Committee determines.
The revised cap on Added Value will not apply to current and future AVP cycles if Awards vest on a change of control during Phase 1 unless the Remuneration Committee in its discretion determines that it would be appropriate in the circumstances to apply the cap.
The cap will not apply during Phase 2.
For the 2008 and future AVP Cycles the Remuneration Committee proposes to reduce the impact of the adjustment for absolute TSR performance so that the sliding scale multiplier will be 100% where TSR is 25%, to 50% at -25% TSR.
The existing indexation to the Xstrata share price index will still apply.
The Remuneration Committee considers that this will ensure that the AVP continues to offer an adequate incentive and reward for mitigating shareholder losses in a falling market.
Long Term Incentive Plan Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Long Term Incentive Plan, the LTIP.
The LTIP aims to focus managements attention on continuous and sustainable improvements in the underlying financial performance of the Group and on the delivery of superior longterm returns to Xstratas shareholders by providing executives with the opportunity to earn superior levels of reward for outstanding performance.
In addition, the LTIP further aligns the interests of shareholders and management by encouraging executives to build a shareholding in the Group.
The LTIP provides for the grant of both contingent awards of free shares Free Share Awards and share options on the same occasion to the same individual.
The two elements are complementary and ensure that the cyclical nature of the industry does not have an excessively adverse effect on employee remuneration in circumstances where the performance of the Group has otherwise been good, relative to that of competitors.
The Free Share Awards will ensure that where the Group has performed well over a specified performance period, participants will be rewarded even if there is no substantial share price growth due to external factors, such as commodity prices or general economic conditions.
The option element will only provide a benefit to participants when shareholders also benefit from future share price growth.
The options will be subject to stretching performance targets to ensure that windfall growth in the share price as a result of external factors does not deliver rewards which are not justified by the performance of the Group, relative to its peer group.
The policy regarding performance targets is discussed in more detail below.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 127 The number of ordinary shares over which options will be granted will be calculated using a Black-Scholes valuation of the option or a similar approach which the Remuneration Committee considers represents both the cost to Xstrata of providing the benefit and the value of the option itself as a component of the total remuneration package.
The option value at grant will be subject to a lower and upper limit as determined by the Remuneration Committee from time to time.
In determining the value of Free Share Awards, the value of the underlying shares will be used.
Using the method above, the value ratio of Free Share Awards to share options for awards made during 2007 was in general 1:1, based on the value at the time of grant.
The Remuneration Committee may change the ratio for future awards if it is thought appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that annual awards will be made under the LTIP to minimise the impact of share price volatility and to reflect existing best practice.
The rules of the LTIP provide that the aggregate value of options and Free Share Awards made to an individual in any one year may not exceed an amount equal to two times base salary in normal circumstances although in exceptional circumstances the limit may be up to, but not exceed, four times base salary.
Summary of performance conditions During 2005, 2006 and 2007, executive directors were granted market value options and Free Share Awards under the LTIP.
The vesting of both the options and Free Share Awards is subject to the satisfaction of stretching performance conditions over a three-year performance period.
Half of the options and Free Share Awards are conditional on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a peer group and half are conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale over the three-year period, as follows.
For the awards conditional on TSR, 25% of the combined award will vest if TSR growth is at the median of the specified peer group, the full 50% of the combined award will vest for performance at or above the second decile with straight line vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur for TSR growth below median performance.
For the remaining award, vesting is conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale: 5% of the combined award will vest for 1% cost savings, 35% for 2% cost savings and 50% for 3% or more cost savings, with straight line vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur for cost savings that are less than 1%.
Real cost savings will be measured in relation to operating costs after adjusting for the effects of inflation, excluding depreciation, commodity price linked costs, effects of currencies on translation of local currency costs and planned life of mine adjustments.
Since the Groups share price and those of its peers are significantly influenced by the cycle in commodity prices, the Remuneration Committee considers TSR relative to a peer group to be an appropriate performance measure as it rewards relative success in growing shareholder value through the development and execution of the corporate strategy.
The Remuneration Committee is also satisfied that TSR will be a genuine reflection of the Groups underlying financial performance.
The use of the second measure, Group real cost savings relative to targets, reflects the Groups strategic initiative to add shareholder value through productivity and cost efficiencies.
Furthermore, the use of a financial performance measure alongside a relative TSR measure is aligned with current corporate governance best practice.
The performance targets are not capable of being retested at the end of the performance period, so that any proportion of a Free Share Award or option which does not vest after three years will lapse, although vested options will remain exercisable for a maximum of seven years or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may specify after which they will lapse.
128 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Remuneration Report The peer group of global mining companies used to determine the vesting of the options and Free Share Awards that are conditional on TSR in the 2005 and 2006 LTIP comprises the same companies used to form the Xstrata Share Indices for the CEOs Added Value Incentive Plan 2005 Cycle detailed above, plus WMC Resources Ltd in 2005.
For the 2007 LTIP award, the peer group comprises the same 15 companies used to form the Xstrata Share Indices for the CEOs Added Value Incentive Plan 2007 Cycle.
It is envisaged that this peer group will be used to determine the vesting of any options and Free Share Awards that are granted in 2008, although the Remuneration Committee may, at its absolute discretion, vary, add, remove or alter the companies making up the peer group where events happen which cause the Remuneration Committee to consider that such a change is appropriate to ensure that the performance condition continues to represent a fair measure of performance.
This is provided that the Remuneration Committee reasonably considers such a varied or amended performance condition is not materially easier or more difficult to satisfy.
In calculating the TSR, the common currency of US Dollars will be used and the share price of a notional parcel of shares of the Group and the companies in the specified peer group will be averaged over a period preceding both the start and end of the relevant performance period.
The Remuneration Committee has resolved that averaging over a three-month period eliminates the volatility in spot share prices that could otherwise distort the assessment of whether the target has been met.
The TSR of the Group and each member of the peer group over any performance period is calculated by taking the growth between the closing value and the base value of 100 shares expressed as a percentage of the base value, on the assumption that any net dividend per share paid by any company during the relevant performance period is reinvested in shares on the last day of the month during which the relevant shares go ex-dividend.
This calculation is subject to such adjustments to closing value and base value as the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate to reflect any variation of share capital or any merger, take-over, reconstruction, demerger or change in listing status by any member of the peer group or upon any other events which the Remuneration Committee considers may materially distort the calculation.
2006 LTIP Award At 31 December 2007, the Group was ranked fourth out of the peer group of 19 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR for the 2006 award.
If this is the outcome at the end of the three-year performance period then 100% of each executive directors 2006 award linked to TSR will vest.
2007 LTIP Award At 31 December 2007, the Group was ranked seventh out of the peer group of 16 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR for the 2006 award.
If this is the outcome at the end of the three-year performance period then 65% of each executive directors 2007 award linked to TSR will vest.
It should be noted that these amounts are based on the Groups results at this provisional stage and do not necessarily reflect the eventual outcome.
2005 LTIP award vesting in 2008 At 3 March 2007, the Group was ranked third out of the peer group of 21 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR, and the Group had achieved real cost savings of 5.6%.
As a result 100% of each executive directors total 2005 LTIP award vested.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 129 Subsisting rights under Xstrata AG share schemes Subsisting options held by Mick Davis and Trevor Reid pursuant to terms on which they were recruited are held on terms which reflect the provisions of the Management and Employee Share Incentive Scheme previously operated by Xstrata AG, except as expressly provided otherwise.
These options were converted into equivalent options over ordinary shares in the Group at the time of the listing of the Groups shares on the London Stock Exchange the Listing but otherwise continue to be subject to the terms and conditions as modified of the original Xstrata AG share scheme.
It is intended that the replacement options will as far as possible be satisfied by the transfer of ordinary shares in the Group held by the trustees of the Xstrata Employee Share Ownership Trust and the Xstrata Employee and Directors Share Ownership Trust.
Whilst subsisting options continue to exist under this scheme, no future grants will be made.
Subsisting options are not subject to performance conditions because they were originally granted under arrangements which did not provide for awards to be subject to performance which related to Xstrata AG prior to the Group becoming a UK listed Company.
Performance Graph GBP FTSE Diversifieds CAGR 49% Xstrata CAGR 105% 600 400 200 0 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 30 Dec 05 29 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 The performance graph set out above shows the TSR for a holding of shares of the Group for the five years ended 31 December 2007 compared with the TSR for a hypothetical holding of shares of the same kinds and number as those by reference to which the FTSE100 index is calculated.
The Board considers that the FTSE100 currently represents the most appropriate of the published indices for these purposes.
TSR has been calculated assuming that an equivalent sum was invested in shares of the Group and in the FTSE100 index.
Dividends are invested in additional shares and benefits receivable in the form of shares are also added to the relevant holding.
Pensions Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have participated in money purchase retirement plans from their respective dates of joining the Group.
The plans are designed having regard to the taxation and employment status of each executive.
Group contributions are re-assessed at regular intervals and are based on actuarial advice with the objective of accumulating sufficient funds over the working lifetime of each executive to provide an overall target pension which is currently intended to be equivalent to approximately 60% of final salary at normal retirement age for executives who begin participating in the plans at the age of 40.
Prior to 6 April 2006, these contributions were paid to a combination of an approved money purchase pension plan and a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme FURBS.
From 6 April 2006, contributions have been made through a combination of payments to a registered pension plan and cash sums to each executive, having regard to the tax limits on contributions and benefits from registered UK pension plans.
The actual benefits payable from the pension plans will be based on the amount which has accumulated in that members money purchase accounts.
No employee contributions are currently payable by Mick Davis and Trevor Reid.
As noted above, Santiago Zaldumbide receives no pension benefits under the terms of his professional services agreement.
130 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Remuneration Report External appointments Executive directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or offices without the approval of the Board.
Santiago Zaldumbide, having gained the approval of the Board, held directorships with the following companies during the year: European Advisory Council of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc and ThyssenKrupp SA.
In total the remuneration received by Santiago Zaldumbide, in relation to his directorship of these companies, amounted to EUR49,943.
Non-executive directors The level of fees for non-executive directors is set at the level considered necessary to obtain the services of individuals with the relevant skills and experience to bring added depth and breadth to the composition of the Board.
Non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually by the Chairman and the Chief Executive in the light of fees payable to non-executive directors of comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high calibre individuals as nonexecutive directors.
Non-executive directors are eligible to forgo all or part of their directors fees to acquire shares in the Group, after deduction of applicable income tax and social security contributions.
The non-executive directors do not, and will not in the future, participate in the Bonus Plan or LTIP or any other performance-related incentive arrangements which may be introduced from time to time.
Entitlements under service contracts Executive directors Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have employment agreements with Xstrata Services UK Limited XSL effective from 1 February 2002 which are for fixed terms of one year.
However, their services as Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively are provided to the Group under a secondment agreement entered into between the Group and XSL on 19 March 2002.
Each of Mick Davis and Trevor Reid is seconded to the Group for a fixed term of two years thereafter renewable by either party for further periods of two years.
The employment of Mick Davis and Trevor Reid may be terminated by not less than 12 months notice by XSL or the director concerned or by a payment in lieu of notice by XSL.
On termination of employment by XSL in breach, or if Mr Davis or Mr Reid resigns in circumstances where they cannot in good faith be expected to continue in employment, each director is entitled to be paid a sum equal to 100% of his annual salary plus pension and other benefits and his previous years bonus plus any accrued basic salary and expenses and to have all entitlements under his retirement benefit plans paid in accordance with the plan rules.
As both Mr Davis and Mr Reid participate in defined contribution arrangements it is not expected that any significant additional liability would arise in respect of retirement plan entitlements beyond that already accrued in the accounts.
For the purposes of calculating termination payments, annual bonus will be capped at 300% of annual salary.
In addition, each of the executive directors is eligible to participate in the Bonus Plan which provides that deferred amounts up to an aggregate ceiling of 200% of salary remain payable in the event of cessation of employment by reason of death, injury, ill health or disability in which case they are payable immediately or retirement in which case they are payable on the normal vesting date.
No deferred amounts are payable in the event of cessation by dismissal for cause.
In the case of termination by reason of death, injury, ill health or disability before the date the bonus is awarded for a financial year, or if the Remuneration Committee in its discretion so resolves, a proportion of the annual bonus pool may still be awarded subject to the normal discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Executive directors are entitled to any outstanding LTIP awards on cessation of employment by reason of death, injury, ill health or disability in which case they are payable immediately in full or retirement in which case they are payable on the normal vesting date to the extent they vest for performance at that time.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 131 On termination of the professional services agreement dated 29 January 1998 under which Santiago Zaldumbide received a fixed fee for acting as Chairman of Asturiana, Santiago Zaldumbide received a sum from the redemption of an insurance policy acquired by Asturiana as described above.
On termination of the new professional services agreement, other than on his voluntary termination or termination for gross negligence, Santiago Zaldumbide is entitled to be paid a sum equal to 100% of his annual salary and other benefits and his previous years bonus plus any accrued basic salary and expenses.
Santiago Zaldumbide is engaged as a director of Xstrata Plc on the terms of a letter of appointment dated 18 March 2002.
Santiago Zaldumbide will receive no additional remuneration for his position as director of Xstrata Plc and is not entitled to any compensation in respect of the termination of his office as a director of Xstrata Plc.
Non-executive directors Willy Strothotte is engaged by the Group as a non-executive director and Chairman on the terms of a letter of appointment.
The appointment is terminable by six months notice by Willy Strothotte.
The Group may terminate Willy Strothottes appointment at any time and on such termination Willy Strothotte will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
The term may be renewed by the Board.
David Rough is engaged by the Group as the senior independent non-executive director and Deputy Chairman on the terms of a letter of appointment.
The appointment is terminable by six months notice by David Rough.
The Group may terminate David Roughs appointment at any time and on such termination David Rough will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
Ivan Glasenberg, Paul Hazen, Robert MacDonnell, Sir Steve Robson and Ian Strachan are each engaged by the Group as a non-executive director on the terms of a letter of appointment.
Each appointment is terminable by six months notice by the non-executive director.
Claude Lamoureux will be proposed by the Board for election as a non-executive director by the shareholders at the next general meeting of the Company expected to be the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2008.
If his election is confirmed, he will be engaged by the Group as a non-executive director on the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial fixed term of 36 months commencing on 6 May 2008 and terminable thereafter by six months notice by the non-executive director.
Dr Fred Roux ceased to be a non-executive director with effect from 7 August 2007.
The Group may terminate each non-executive directors appointment at any time and on such termination the non-executive director will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
Each term may be renewed by the Board.
There is no arrangement under which a director has agreed to waive future emoluments nor have there been any such waivers during the financial year.
There are no outstanding loans or guarantees granted or provided by any member of the Group to or for the benefit of any of the directors.
No significant awards have been made in the financial year to any past director.
Salary and fees includes non-executive directors fees which may be paid in shares.
In 2007, Mick Daviss and Trevor Reids salaries were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
The salary figures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 2.002 2006: 1.843 and therefore reflect the impact of the exchange rate fluctuations during the year.
In 2007, Santiago Zaldumbides basic salary and benefits were set and paid in Euros.
The figures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average euro dollar exchange rate for the year of 1.371 2006: 1.256 and therefore reflect the impact of the exchange rate fluctuations during the year.
Santiago Zaldumbide also received a sum of EUR 2,003,216 from the redemption of an insurance policy.
All non-executive director fees except those for Ian Strachan and Steve Robson were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
Ian Strachans fees were set in UK pounds sterling, and paid in US dollars.
Steve Robsons fees were set in UK pounds sterling and paid in Euros.
The figures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 2.002 2006: 1.843 and therefore reflect the impact of the exchange rate fluctuations during the year.
5. a Bonuses were awarded and paid in UK pounds sterling and converted at a rate of 1.972, the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the award.
5. b Bonuses were awarded and paid in Euros and converted at a rate of 1.488, the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the award.
6. a In 2007, Mick Daviss housing allowance was awarded and paid in US dollars.
6. b In 2007, Trevor Reids housing allowance was awarded in US dollars and paid in UK pounds sterling.
In 2007, Mick Daviss benefits were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
The benefits have been converted to US dollars based on the average pound dollar exchange rate for the year of 2.002 2006: 1.843 and therefore reflects the impact of the exchange rate fluctuations during the year.
This includes an amount for life insurance of 100,391.
In 2007, Trevor Reids benefits were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
This includes an amount for life insurance of 35,511.
No consideration has been paid to or is receivable by third parties for making available the qualifying services of any directors during the year or in connection with the management affairs of Xstrata.
Deferred bonus payable in shares.
The number of shares awarded will be determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the date the bonus payment was determined.
Amount also includes $59,804.07, $21,445.36 and $25,277.00 in respect of dividend equivalents accrued during the year in respect of prior years deferred bonus awards which will vest on the date of the underlying award for Mick Davis, Trevor Reid and Santiago Zaldumbide respectively.
No options, other than the LTIP options, are subject to performance conditions as explained above.
Details of the LTIP performance conditions are described above.
Mick Daviss and Trevor Reids LTIP options may be settled in cash at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The highest and lowest prices of the Companys shares during the year were GBP37.38 and GBP22.43 respectively 2006 GBP25.55 and GBP12.17.
The price at the year end was GBP35.50 2006 GBP25.50.
On 21 May 2007, Trevor Reid exercised his option over 100,000 shares.
The market value of an Xstrata share on the date of exercise was GBP27.63, and a gain of 2,195,000 was realised.
On 19 March 2007, Santiago Zaldumbide exercised his option over 100,000 shares.
The market value of an Xstrata share on the date of exercise was GBP24.62, and a gain of 1,804,000 was realised.
On 20 March 2007, Santiago Zaldumbide exercised his option over 200,488 shares.
The market value of an Xstrata share on the date of exercise was GBP24.93, and a gain of 3,678,955 was realised.
Details of performance conditions are described above.
The market value of a share on the date of award under the LTIP and the Deferred Bonus on 15 March 2007 was GBP24.00.
These shares were awarded on 5 March 2004 when the closing market price was GBP6.57.
The closing market price on the date of vesting was GBP23.30.
These shares were awarded on 24 February 2005 when the closing market price was GBP9.35.
The closing market price on the date of vesting 26 February 2007 first trading day after vesting was GBP26.56.
These shares were awarded on 23 February 2006 when the closing market price was GBP15.44.
The closing market price on the date of vesting was GBP26.45.
During the year, Mick Davis participated in the Added Value Incentive Plan as described above.
For the AVP 2007 cycle the participation percentage was 0.3% and the market capitalisation on date of award was GBP23,442,174,802.
For the AVP 2006 cycle the participation percentage was 0.3% and the market capitalisation on date of award was GBP10,692,600,350.
For the AVP 2005 cycle the participation percentage was 0.5% and the market capitalisation on date of award was GBP6,026,084,544.
No amount of shares awarded has been disclosed in the table above, as this award is not over a fixed number of shares, but is a plan which calculates a monetary award at the end of the performance period, which may then be settled in cash or by the award of shares.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 135 Pensions Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have participated in defined contribution retirement benefit plans.
During the year, pension related payments of pension plan, FURBS, and non-pensionable salary supplement payments were made as follows: 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Mick Davis Mick Davis Trevor Reid Trevor Reid Total Total US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ Pension related payments 3,294,113 1,822,233 1,442,173 785,433 4,736,286 2,607,666 Notes 1.
Further details of the pension arrangements are explained above.
Santiago Zaldumbide received no pension benefits under the terms of his fixed cost remuneration arrangement which is detailed above.
Based on the average UK pound US dollar exchange rate for the year of 2.002 2006: 1.843.
Payments to Mick Davis and Trevor Reid in both years were made in UK pounds sterling.
Mick Davis received 1,557,399 and Trevor Reid received 629,949 as non-pensionable salary supplements.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Trevor Reid Director and Chief Financial Officer 18 March 2008
