Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Remuneration Committee report The Board has delegated authority for remuneration policy and determining the specific packages for the Chairman and executive directors to the Remuneration Committee, and has delegated authority to agree fees payable to the non-executive directors to the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
The reports from both these Committees are incorporated into this Remuneration report, together with a report on the remuneration or fees paid to directors and the policy underpinning this.
Sir Nigel Rudd The Remuneration report is structured as follows: Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee report Chairman Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee report Remuneration reporting Members: Remuneration policy and service contracts for executive directors Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman Chairmans appointment, term and fees Roberto Quarta Non-executive directors appointment, term and fees Peter Weinberg Tabular information on directors shareholdings, emoluments, During the year, Professor Sue Birley served as a member and as pensions and share-based incentives Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until her retirement from the Board on 9 May 2007.
Responsibilities Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, members of the Executive Committee, the Company Secretary and other senior executives.
Within the agreed policy, determining individual remuneration packages for the Chairman and executive directors.
Agreeing the terms and conditions to be included in service agreements for executive directors, including termination payments.
Approving any employee share-based incentive schemes and any performance conditions to be used for such schemes.
Determining any share scheme performance targets.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, which conform with the requirements of the Combined Code, can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Governance The Committee is chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd and all of its members are independent non-executive directors.
The Companys Chairman and Chief Executive attend Committee meetings by invitation only.
They do not attend where their individual remuneration is discussed and no director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
In 2007 the Committee met eight times and details of attendance at these meetings are provided in the Corporate Governance Report on page 59.
In August 2007 the Committee appointed Kepler Associates as its Independent Adviser.
The role of the Committees Independent Adviser is to provide advice to the Committee and its individual members on all aspects of the Committees remit, and Kepler Associates will not undertake any work for the Company whilst they are retained as the Committees Independent Adviser.
Representatives from Kepler Associates have attended each of the Committee meetings since their appointment and will be in attendance at all meetings unless specifically requested otherwise by the Committee.
During the year the Committee also received material assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Companys Human Resources Director, Alastair Imrie, and the Human Resources Director, Group Remuneration and Benefits, Graham Middleton.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information and Mike Turner, in their respective capacities as Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee report Chief Executive, also provided advice that was of material assistance to the Committee.
Legal advice to the Committee has been provided by Linklaters and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, who are both appointed by the Company, and who also provided services to the Company during the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the services provided to it by these firms were of a technical nature and did not create any conflict of interest.
If a conflict of interest were to arise in the future, the Dick Olver Committee would appoint separate legal advisers from those used Non-Executive Directors by the Company.
Fees Committee Chairman  PwC, who are appointed by the Company and also provided services to the Company during the year, provided detailed information on market trends and the competitive positioning Members: of packages.
New Bridge Street Consulting, who are appointed by the Dick Olver Chairman Committee, provided advice on long-term incentive plans and the total Philip Bramwell shareholder return figures for assessing the performance condition Walt Havenstein under the Performance Share Plan.
Mike Turner Activities In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee has, during the year, Responsibilities undertaken a thorough review of the Companys reward strategy.
As a result of that review, the Committee has agreed a number of changes as set out in this report.
In addition, the Committee has agreed the: Reviewing the fees payable to non-executive directors excluding the Chairman and making changes to such fees performance targets for the year and progress against those targets: as deemed appropriate.
operation of the long-term incentive plans and policy for executive share scheme grants including the level of individual grants and Governance performance conditions: The Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee has delegated authority policy for the operation of the all-employee share schemes: from the Board to agree fees payable to non-executive directors on its behalf.
award of bonuses based on the prior years performance: Activities Chairmans fees for his second three-year term: The Board has approved the following guidelines to be used by the base salary for the two new Chief Operating Officers in the light Committee when discharging its responsibilities: of their progress at the half year: fees shall be sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the discretionary elements of the executive share plans: necessary skills, experience and knowledge required to ensure that the Board is able to discharge its duties effectively: terms on which Steve Mogford and Chris Geoghegan left the Company during the year: and in setting fees the Committee shall have regard to the amount of time individual non-executive directors are required to devote to their terms on which Mike Turner will retire from the Company at the end duties and also the scale and complexity and international nature of of August 2008. the business and the responsibility involved: In addition, the Committee has also: fees payable to non-executive directors shall be paid in cash and reviewed the Remuneration report: and shall not be performance-related: and consulted with major shareholders over aspects of remuneration policy.
non-executive directors shall not participate in the Companys sharebased incentive schemes or pension scheme.
The Companys remuneration strategy, policy and details of executive remuneration are set out on pages 66 to 83 of this Remuneration report.
The Committee held one meeting in 2007 attended by all members, and met in January 2008.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Sir Nigel Rudd Remuneration Committee Chairman Dick Olver Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Chairman BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 65 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Remuneration strategy and policy for executive directors This section of the report explains the Companys remuneration strategy and policy, the individual components of executive directors remuneration and details of their service contracts as required by legislation.
Remuneration strategy and 2007 review The Companys remuneration strategy, policy and package for executive directors is: Strategy Policy Package To To pro pro vide a remuneration package that: vide a remuneration package that: Set base salary at median competitive Base salary level helps to attract, helps to attract, retain and motivate retain and motivate Annual bonus Reward upper quartile performance with is aligned to shareholders interests Long-term incentive plans is aligned to shareholders interests upper quartile reward is competitive against the appropriate is competitive against the appropriate Executive Share Option Scheme Balance between: mar markke ett Performance Share Plan short and long-term reward encourages and supports a highencourages and supports a high Share Matching Plan fixed and variable reward performance culture performance culture Pension provision with balance becoming more long-term is fair and transparent is fair and transparent Car allowance and more highly geared with seniority can be applied consistently throughout can be applied consistently throughout Other benefits Competitive package of benefits the Group.
the Group Global all-employee incentive plan no further awards from 2008 In the second half of 2007, the Committee undertook a full review detailed below.
These changes will flow down to the 250 most senior of the remuneration arrangements for executive directors to ensure executives within the Group globally to create a consistent global they remained appropriate and supported the Group strategy given approach to reward.
the growth of the Group internationally and the increased focus on Following the announcement in October 2007 that the Chief excellence in Programme Management and through-life support.
Executive, Mike Turner, would retire from the Company at the end of As a result of the review, the Committee has made a number of August 2008 after 42 years with the Company, the Committee has changes to the arrangements for executive directors for 2008 as agreed a separate arrangement for him detailed on page 70.
Objectives of the review and summary Objective Summary of changes made Increase focus on sustainable Increase to one-third the proportion of annual bonus driven off specific objectives long-term performance Part of the annual bonus to be specifically linked to performance on safety, ethics and diversity Compulsory deferral of at least one-quarter of annual bonus into the Share Matching Plan Increase proportion of package delivered through long-term incentives Further extend eligibility of long-term incentive plans to cover the top 250 senior executives globally Simplify package with more Replace share options by improved awards of performance shares transparent link between Increase focus on long-term Earnings per Share EPS as key driver of long-term performance performance and reward Half the awards of performance shares to be based on Total Shareholder Return TSR and half on EPS Use actual growth in EPS rather than real growth in excess of UK inflation Improve Share Matching Plan to increase its weight in package Competitive package with Improved maximum bonus levels coupled with reduced payout for achieving the base financial targets increased reward for improved Uniform match of 1:1 for 2008 awards under Share Matching Plan for all eligible executives performance Improved 2:1 match for 2009 awards under Share Matching Plan for improved performance Increased awards of performance shares where necessary to maintain competitive package Incentivise increased share All future awards of long-term incentives will be made over shares rather than options ownership amongst executives Compulsory deferral of part of the annual bonus into Share Matching Plan Extend eligibility of long-term incentives and improve award levels Extend Minimum Shareholding Requirement to all senior executives receiving long-term incentives To drive creation of long-term value for shareholders 66 www.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Committees executive remuneration policy continues to be practice, and also takes account of the performance of the individual, the to set base salaries at median competitive levels, taking into account Company as a whole and the pay and conditions of Group employees.
performance and experience in role, whilst seeking to reward upper Base salary quartile performance with potential upper quartile remuneration As a result of the above review and, having taken account of the through the focused use of bonus schemes and share-based competitive positioning, performance and general market trends, incentives.
The Committee believes that the above changes and the Committee has increased the annual base salaries of executive improvements to the incentive packages will: directors with effect from January 2008 as follows: bring the remuneration packages into line with market Base salary at Base salary at Percentage competitive levels: Executive director 31 December 2007 1 January 2008 increase simplify the arrangements to improve line-of-sight between George Rose performance and reward: Group Finance Director 560,000 592,500 5.8% 1 Ian King shift the focus towards long-term sustainable growth in EPS: Chief Operating Officer reinforce the key aspects of the Groups corporate responsibility UK Rest of World 560,000 592,500 5.8% 1 agenda: Walt Havenstein Chief Operating Officer directly align short-term and long-term reward through compulsory US $850,000 $900,000 5.9% deferral of part of the bonus into the Share Matching Plan for all 1 The two Chief Operating Officers were new in post at the beginning of 2007.
Following executive directors: and a half year review of performance in their new roles, the base salary of Ian King was increase the gearing to drive for high performance as most of increased from 530,000 to 560,000, and that of Walt Havenstein was increased from $750,000 to $850,000, with effect from 1 July 2007. the improvement in package is only delivered for achieving more stretching targets.
Annual bonus Structure: The annual bonus for 2008 has been restructured to The Committee intends to continue with the executive remuneration increase the focus on long-term performance and risk management policy as detailed in this report in 2008 and subsequent years, both business risk and reputation risk.
To further reinforce the and will continue to consult on material changes with principal importance of key aspects of the Groups corporate responsibility shareholders.
The principles of the remuneration strategy are applied agenda, a specific part of the annual bonus will be based on driving consistently across the Group, taking account of seniority and local performance and improvement in ethics and safety.
The structure of market practice.
the annual bonus for 2008 will be: The following sections describe the changes made in more detail Measure % of bonus and the specific arrangements for executive directors.
In-year financial performance 66% Down from 75% Approach to the review Ethics and safety 12% The review not only considered the Companys executive remuneration Up from 25% packages against the market but also the Companys performance Other objectives that support the to date, its strategy for the next five years and the views of the Executive Committees top ten objectives 22% Committee members and senior executives.
Information on the market for comparable management positions At present, executive directors can invest some or all of their net was provided by PwC so that the Committee could form a view as annual bonus into the Share Matching Plan SMP.
To increase the to where to position the various elements of the package relative alignment between short-term and long-term reward, executive to comparable companies.
directors will be required to invest at least one-quarter one-third for The methodology used was to construct appropriate comparator the Chief Operating Officer US of their net 2008 annual bonus into groups for the individual positions, taking account of company size, the SMP when the bonus is paid in 2009.
Further investment can be scale of operations and breadth of role.
The comparator group for made on a voluntary basis up to a maximum investment of half their the UK executive directors comprised 25 of the FTSE 50 companies net bonus.
excluding financials and retail with market capitalisation nearest Levels: To remain competitive and to increase the gearing to drive for to that of BAE Systems 12 larger and 13 smaller.
The Committee high performance, the maximum bonus levels have been increased believes that the change from a comparator group based on turnover to market median levels but the payout for achieving on-target as used last year to one based on market capitalisation creates performance against the in-year financial targets has been reduced better alignment between the value placed on the Company and from 50% to 40% of maximum.
The table below summarises the the value placed on the executives who manage it.
revised bonus structure and levels for the executive directors.
For the US Chief Operating Officer, regression analysis was used on Maximum bonus as UK executive directors US executive director US aerospace, defence and general industry sector data to produce percentage of salary Current New Current New appropriate market figures consistent with the size and scale of the In-year financial US business, adjusting where necessary to reflect the extra responsibility performance 75% 83% 112.5% 150% for his plc board role.
Ethics and safety 15% 27% The base salary, total cash reward base salary plus annual bonus, Other objectives 25% 37.5% total direct reward total cash reward plus long-term incentives supporting and total reward total direct reward plus pension were analysed the Group strategy 27% 48% at the median and upper quartile for the relevant posts in the Total 100% 125% 150% 225% comparator group companies.
This gives the Committee a view Bonus compulsorily on the competitiveness of the individual elements of the package invested into SMP 31.25% 75% as well as the package as a whole.
Maximum bonus The Committee also reviewed the trends in the elements of remuneration payable in cash 100% 93.75% 150% 150% to ensure that the structure of the package stays in line with market BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 67 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued The financial targets, both base and stretch, are derived from the Share options Integrated Business Plan IBP, which is agreed by the Board and Details of the current Executive Share Option Plan are set out on which implements corporate strategy on a group-wide basis by page 79.
No further grants of share options will be made, except in ensuring that business plans which support the strategy are exceptional circumstances.
In determining the in-year financial Performance Share Plan PSP performance measures, the view was taken that the Companys major A detailed explanation of the PSP is contained on page 71.
The investors believe EPS and cash targets and, where appropriate, Committee believes that the PSP offers better value for money than 1 EBITA to be key indicators of long-term financial performance and share options as executives generally place a higher value on such value creation.
plans than share options, and they require fewer shares to deliver the The Executive Committee top ten objectives are agreed by the Board same value, thus reducing the dilutive effect of executive share-based each year as those key to delivering the Groups strategy.
Following the decision not to award further grants of share set out on page 11 and used as the basis to set the individual options, the Committee has made a number of changes to the PSP.
objectives for the executive directors which are agreed by the In line with current corporate governance guidelines, shares awarded Chairman and the Committee.
These then flow down to members of under the PSP will attract dividends prior to vesting.
The additional the Executive Committee and the senior leadership team to ensure value of these dividends has been taken into account in assessing that all businesses within the Group are aligned with the overall Group the overall value of awards to be granted.
The annual bonus targets set by the Committee for the executive directors, which the Committee believes are stretching To further increase the proportion of the package driven off long-term but achievable, are summarised in the table below.
EPS growth, half the PSP awards will be based on the current TSR performance condition and vesting scale, with the other half based Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs on EPS growth.
To simplify the LTIPs and increase the line of sight between the executives reward and performance, no further awards of share The EPS performance condition will be based on annual EPS growth, options will be made except in exceptional circumstances, eg to with no vesting at 5% pa growth, increasing on a straight line basis secure a new hire in a competitive situation.
Instead, the awards of to full vesting at 11% pa growth.
performance shares will be increased and half the award will be based To remain competitive and to replace the value of previous share on an EPS performance condition with the other half based on TSR.
option grants, the award levels for 2008 will be: At present, the LTIP arrangements that use EPS growth ie share 200% of base salary for the UK executive directors split 100% options and the Share Matching Plan for executive directors use real TSR EPS of salary on PSP and 100% of salary on PSP : and growth in EPS in excess of UK inflation and have stepped vesting with one-third vesting at real annual growth of 3%, jumping to two-thirds 250% of base salary for the US executive director split 125% TSR EPS vesting at 4% pa and full vesting at 5% pa. From 2008, where EPS of salary on PSP and 125% of salary on PSP.
is used as a measure in LTIPs, actual ie nominal rather than real The PSP was approved by shareholders in May 2006.
At that time EPS growth will be used, with a straight line vesting scale to avoid it was agreed that the Committee should have the flexibility for stepped vesting.
executives below Board level to base up to half of any award on Share Matching Plan SMP appropriately stretching internal measures, with the rest based on The SMP is seen as a key part of the long-term incentive package, TSR as at present.
In addition, the maximum award under the PSP directly linking short-term reward with long-term reward.
A more was limited to two times base salary.
Shareholder approval will be detailed explanation of the SMP is contained on page 72.
For awards sought at the May 2008 AGM to base half the PSP award for executive in 2008 in respect of the 2007 annual bonus, none of the matching directors on appropriately stretching internal measures, which will be shares will vest unless the annual EPS growth over the three-year EPS for awards in 2008, and to increase the maximum award level performance period exceeds 5% pa, increasing uniformly from no under the PSP to four times base salary.
Whilst it is not envisaged that match to a 1:1 match for 8% pa growth.
awards at this level will be necessary, it does allow the Committee the flexibility in future should special circumstances arise.
Naturally For 2009 awards in respect of the 2008 annual bonus, the matching shareholders will be consulted on any significant changes to the scale will be extended on a uniform basis to provide a 2:1 match for normal award levels.
However, executive directors will only be able to invest a maximum of half their net annual bonus into the SMP.
It is proposed that executive directors will receive the 2008 award TSR of PSP in the normal cycle, ie shortly after the Companys annual The increase in match from 1:1 to 2:1 for increased performance, to EPS results.
The 2008 award of PSP will be made shortly after the May be applied in 2009, will require formal shareholder approval which will 2008 AGM, but with a slightly reduced vesting period eg two years be sought at the May 2008 AGM.
and ten months rather than the normal three years so that both awards vest at the same time.
Annual bonus as a percentage of base salary for 2008 George Rose Ian King Walt Havenstein Base Stretch Base Stretch Base Stretch Measure target target target target target target Group EPS 16.6% 41.5% 8.3% 20.75% 15% 37.5% Group cash 16.6% 41.5% 8.3% 20.75% 15% 37.5% 1 Business EBITA 8.3% 20.75% 15% 37.5% Business cash 8.3% 20.75% 15% 37.5% Ethics and safety Up to 15% Up to 15% Up to 27% Other objectives supporting the Groups strategy Up to 27% Up to 27% Up to 48% If performance is between the base and stretch targets, the bonus is pro-rated on a straight line basis 1 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 68 www.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Total value of incentives Pension provision In making the above changes to the package, the Company has been Following the changes made recently in the UK in response to mindful of the impact on the overall value of the package.
Using pensions simplification legislation as reported last year, and in the assumptions consistent with those underlying the value placed on US to increase the pay averaging period for existing executives to ten LTIPs in the Companys accounts, and assuming executive directors years by 2015, no further changes to the pension arrangements for invest half their net bonus into the SMP, the table below summarises executive directors are required.
the proposals and compares expected value of the total direct reward Fixed and performance-related reward base salary plus bonus plus long-term incentives before and after the At on-target performance, more than half the package two-thirds changes.
As the improvements in the annual bonus levels for 2008 for the US executive director is performance related, rising to over will not feed into the SMP until 2009, and the extension of the SMP three-quarters for the UK executive directors and over 85% for the match will not be introduced until 2009, the expected values of the US director at stretch performance.
This is shown in the chart below.
incentive package delivered in both 2008 and 2009 are shown.
The charts below show the key drivers of performance and their influence on the incentive package.
Performance drivers of incentive package Proportion of package value delivered through fixed and performance-related reward Stretch Stretch Performance Performance On-Target On-Target Performance Performance Stretch Stretch Performance Performance On-Target On-Target Performance Performance 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Proportion of overall package Proportion of incentive package In-year measures Long-term EPS Relative TSR Share price Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP Total value of incentives as a percentage of salary UK executive directors US executive director Current New Current New Annual bonus On-target 54% 61% 81% 110% Maximum 100% 125% 150% 225% Share Matching Plan 1 1 Match :1 1:1 0 2:1 :1 1:1 0 2:1 3 3 EPS growth target % pa Real growth Actual growth Real growth Actual growth of 3% 8% of 5% 11% of 3% 8% of 5% 11% Share option grant Award % of salary 150% 150% PSP grant on TSR Award % of salary 100% 100% 100% 125% TSR vesting at median, at median, at median, at median, All at top 20% All at top 20% All at top 20% All at top 20% PSP grant on EPS Award % of salary 100% 125% EPS growth target % pa Nil at 5%, Nil at 5%, all at 11% all at 11% Expected value of total direct reward as a percentage of salary 2007 258% 293% 2008 282% 366% 2009 298% 400% BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 69 UK executive US executive directors director UK executive US executive directors director Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Arrangements for the Chief Executive In tandem with the Share Award, he was granted a conditional cash award On 16 October 2007, the Company announced that Mike Turner, the of 1,181,250.
This will be subject to the same performance targets, and Chief Executive, will retire at the end of August 2008.
The Committee will vest and be released on the same basis, as set out above.
agreed a 5.8% salary increase from 1 January 2008, taking account The Committee was satisfied that these awards were the most of his performance and the competitive positioning.
This increases his appropriate incentive for Mike Turner in relation to his remaining annual base salary from 945,000 to 1,000,000.
He will be eligible period of service and these targets are consistent with the Companys to participate in an annual bonus plan for 2008, with a maximum bonus strategy of giving emphasis to non-financial objectives in order to unchanged at 150% of base salary, and with the following targets: foster a performance culture within the Company.
Annual bonus as percentage of base salary Mike Turner As this was a special arrangement to facilitate Mike Turners retention Base Stretch and incentivisation, shareholder approval was not required under the Measure target target Listing Rules.
Any benefits under this arrangement will not be Group EPS 20% 50% pensionable.
Group cash 20% 50% Performance in 2007 Ethics and safety Up to 18% The structure of the 2007 Annual Bonus Plan was set out in last Other objectives supporting the Groups strategy Up to 32% years Remuneration report.
If performance is between the base and stretch targets, the bonus is pro-rated.
2007 was another very successful year, building on the excellent He will be eligible to invest up to one-third of his 2007 net annual performances in 2004, 2005 and 2006.
Apart from the Australian bonus into the Share Matching Plan but will not be eligible to invest business, all the major business groupings achieved their stretch any of his 2008 annual bonus.
targets on profit and cash.
As a result, all the financial targets within the 2007 Annual Bonus Plan for executive directors were met at the He will not be eligible to participate in the Performance Share Plan stretch level apart from that part of Chris Geoghegans bonus linked for the 2008 financial year.
Instead, the Committee has implemented to the profit performance of his group of businesses.
In addition, a tailored incentive arrangement for the period prior to his retirement excellent progress was made against most of the key non-financial as announced to shareholders on 16 October 2007. objectives as set out on page 26 and, accordingly, bonus payments On 16 October 2007, Mike Turner was granted a performance-related for 2007, which are set out in Table F on page 82, range from 83.9% conditional award over 231,618 ordinary shares Share Award.
The to 97% of the maximum bonus for the executive directors who served number of ordinary shares under the Share Award was calculated as throughout 2007.
1,181,250 being 1.25 times his base salary at that time divided In addition, the real growth in EPS over the three years to 2007 by 510p, being the market value of an ordinary share averaged over exceeded 5% pa so that the awards of share options granted in the three business days ending 15 October 2007.
The Share Award will vest subject to the satisfaction of certain The Companys total shareholder return for awards of shares made performance targets, which the Committee will assess as at 31 in March 2005 under the Performance Share Plan exceeded the upper August 2008.
These targets relate to: continuing the successful quintile position when compared against the comparator group of 18 implementation of the Companys business strategy: satisfaction other defence and aerospace companies.
The Committee has of leadership objectives set by the Committee: achieving an orderly satisfied itself that there has been a sustainable improvement in the handover of key external relationships: and facilitating an orderly underlying performance of the Group over the three-year performance succession to the Chief Executive role.
Any ordinary shares which period and so this award has vested in full.
vest will be released in two equal tranches over the year following his retirement.
The Share Award will be satisfied by way of a transfer of existing ordinary shares from the Companys employee trust.
Value at 31 December 2007 of 100 investment Value at 31 December 2007 of 100 investment at 31 December 2002 500 500 375 400 300 250 200 125 100 0 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 03 04 05 06 07 BAE Systems BAE Systems Aerospace & defence comparator group FTSE 100 FTSE 100 UK executive director pay review comparator group This graph, which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of The graph above shows the value shareholders have achieved by their investment Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, shows the value by 31 December 2007, on in BAE Systems over recent years as compared to i the FTSE 100 Index: ii the a total shareholder return basis, of 100 invested in BAE Systems on 31 December companies forming the sectoral peer group for the BAE Systems Performance Share 2002 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other Plan: and iii the companies forming the comparator group for the 2007 executive points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
The graph depicts the value for BAE Systems and the comparators at the end of 2007 of a single 100 investment made at the beginning of each of the last The FTSE 100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a five years.
As BAE Systems is a constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed to be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Summary of long-term incentive plans Plan provisions Performance conditions for grants of awards to be made under the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching Plan in 2008 are detailed below.
Performance conditions for grants of awards made prior to 2008 are detailed on pages 77 and 78.
TSR Performance Share Plan PSP Performance Condition PSP Key features for PSP awards in 2008: Proportion of the award capable of exercise determined by: half the PSP award will be based on a Total Shareholder Return i the Companys TSR share price growth plus dividends ranking TSR performance condition PSP and the other half on an Earnings relative to a comparator group of 18 other international EPS per Share PSP performance condition: and defence and aerospace companies see table below : length of period for performance condition: three years with any TSR PSP sectoral peer group shares vesting paid out in three equal tranches on vesting at the Boeing General Dynamics Raytheon end of years three, four and five.
Cobham GKN Rockwell Collins EPS Dassault Aviation Goodrich Rolls-Royce The PSP award for executive directors is subject to shareholder approval at the May 2008 AGM and, subject to that approval, will have a slightly shorter vesting period so EADS Honeywell International Smiths Group TSR that it vests at the same time as the 2008 PSP award.
Embraer PN Lockheed Martin Thales Finmeccanica Northrop Grumman United Technologies nil vesting if the Companys TSR is outside the top 50% How the PSP operates of TSRs achieved by the sectoral comparator group and 100% vesting if it is in the top quintile ie top 20% as set 50% of award based on TSR growth relative to out below: a sectoral comparator One-third available group of companies immediately at the over the three-year 100 end of year three PSP award performance period, paid in subject to a secondary 75 shares financial measure The second third amount PSP available at the 50 varying in Award end of year four accordance with 25 50% of award performance based on actual achieved The final third 0 available at annual EPS growth 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 the end of over the three-year year five Performance relative to comparator group percentile performance period and ii whether there has been a sustained improvement in the Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Companys underlying financial performance and whether it is appropriate to release some or all of the awards.
In taking such For the US executives, the awards are automatically delivered at the end of years three, a view, the Committee may consider but not exclusively the four and five, subject to the performance condition achieved.
following financial metrics: net cash debt: EBITA: order book: turnover: risk and underlying project performance.
Rationale for performance measures: importance to major Shares under award attract dividends prior to vesting.
investors as an indication of both earnings and capital growth EPS Performance Condition PSP relative to other major companies in the same sector and to Proportion of the award capable of exercise: determined by the ensure that awards only vest if there has been a clear improvement rate of annual actual EPS growth over the three-year performance in the Companys performance over the relevant period.
period, with nil vesting at annual actual EPS growth of 5% or less Performance of outstanding PSP awards and 100% vesting at 11% growth as set out below: 100 140 75 105 50 70 25 35 0 0 013 2 45 6 7 8 9 10 11 24 Mar 05 22 Dec 05 12 Apr 06 30 Mar 07 Annual actual EPS growth % Vested in full Mar 08 The graph above summarises the position for all outstanding Rationale for performance measure: major investors consider awards under the PSP as at 31 December 2007.
The coloured box EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance and shows the range of TSR required for 25% vesting to full vesting, value creation.
and the square shows BAE Systems' TSR.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 71 % of total award vesting % of total % of Total Shareholder award vesting Return TSR Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Share Matching Plan SMP maximum level of investment will be 50% of the net annual Key features for grants of awards in 2008 and 2009: bonus: and stand-alone share investment plan with the investment linked match and performance condition: the match will be extended to the bonus awarded under the Annual Bonus Plan: from a 1:1 match at 8% pa actual EPS growth, increasing uniformly to a 2:1 match at 11% pa growth.
participants are granted a conditional award of Matching Shares rationale for performance measure: major investors consider against the gross value of the bonus invested: and EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance and Matching Shares attract dividends during the three-year deferral value creation.
period, released on vesting of any Matching Shares.
the increase in the match in 2009 is subject to shareholder approval at the May 2008 AGM 2008 awards: the executive directors will be invited to acquire shares Performance condition: SMP 2008 Performance condition: SMP 2009 Investment Shares by deferring part or all of their 2007 net annual bonus into the SMP: and 2:1 2:1 match and performance condition: nil match for actual EPS growth of 5% pa or less, increasing uniformly to a 1:1 match 1:1 1:1 for 8% pa growth.
0 0 2009 awards: the UK-based executive directors are required to invest one 0 5 8 11 0 5 8 11 Annual EPS growth % Annual EPS growth % quarter of their 2008 net bonus into the SMP and the US-based executive director one-third: Share Incentive Plan SIP changes in remuneration policy as set out above, the Company intends During 2007 the UK executive directors were eligible to participate in to use new issue shares to satisfy future share awards under the the all-employee free shares element of the Share Incentive Plan.
As executive long-term incentive plans within the 0.5% annual dilution limit.
a result of the Companys performance in 2007, all eligible employees Personal shareholding policy including the UK executive directors will be entitled to receive shares The Committee has agreed a policy whereby all executive directors are worth 436.
A similar arrangement operates for non-UK employees on required to establish and maintain a minimum personal shareholding a cash or shares basis depending on local tax and security laws.
As a minimum, a holding equal to 100% The Company operates a share purchase arrangement Partnership of base salary must be achieved as quickly as possible using shares Shares under the Share Incentive Plan which replaced the SAYE Share vesting or options exercised through the executive share option Option Scheme in 2005.
Under this arrangement, UK-based employees schemes or long-term incentive schemes, by using 50% of the shares including executive directors may purchase ordinary shares in that vest or 50% of the options which are exercised on each occasion.
BAE Systems by either monthly investments of between 10 and Thereafter, executive directors are required to increase their personal 125 a month, or lump sum investments of between 10 and 1,500 shareholding gradually, on each occasion using 25% of the shares in a tax year, both limited to 10% of salary if less.
The Partnership that vest or 25% of the options exercised each year, until a personal Shares attract Matching Shares.
As the plan is an all-employee plan, shareholding equal to 200% of annual base salary is achieved and the Matching Shares are not subject to performance conditions in maintained.
These limits are reviewed periodically.
Prior to August 2007, one free Matching arrangement applies to senior executives eligible for share-based Share was awarded for every two Partnership Shares purchased by the long-term incentives with limits aligned to the levels of awards made employee, up to a maximum monthly Partnership Share investment of under these plans.
From August 2007, one free matching share is awarded for each Details of the directors personal shareholdings are shown in Table A Partnership Share up to a maximum of 63 per month.
Dividends paid in respect of the shares in the Share Incentive Plan Post-retirement benefits for UK-based employees are reinvested as Dividend Shares.
UK pension benefits Dilution of share capital As a result of the age discrimination legislation introduced in 2006, The Committee has agreed that, in respect of new issue or treasury UK executive directors default retirement age will be 65 but they will shares, shares representing no more than 1% of the Companys retain any previous rights they had to retire and draw their pensions issued share capital will be used in any one financial year for the without actuarial reduction for early payment at an earlier age.
grant of share options under all employee share schemes.
The table Following the consultations with employees in 2005, a number of below sets out the available dilution capacity for the Companys changes were made to the pension schemes in respect of benefits employee share schemes based on the limits set out in the rules accruing from 6 April 2006 as a means of funding the deficits of those schemes.
These changes applied to executive 2007 directors in the same way as to other employees and included the Total issued share capital as at 31 December 2007 3,574m introduction of the Longevity Adjustment Factor, a reduction in the All schemes: maximum level of pension increases and a change in the definition of Pensionable Pay.
10% in any consecutive 10 years 357.4m Remaining headroom 245.0m The UK-based executive directors with the exception of Ian King see Executive schemes: below are members of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme the Main Scheme and the BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme the ExPS.
5% in any consecutive 10 years 178.7m The ExPS tops up the benefits from the Main Scheme and, for Remaining headroom 111.7m executive directors, is designed to produce a target pension payable The number of ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2007 was from age 60 of two-thirds of Final Pensionable Pay FPP if potential 3,574,509,017 and the number of shares granted under option during service is 20 or more years.
FPP is defined as base salary averaged 2007 totalled 6,160,572 0.17% of the total shares in issue.
With the over the last 12 months prior to leaving service in respect of service 72 www.
baesyste ms. com Match Match Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information accrued to 5 April 2006 and 36 months prior to leaving in respect schemes.
This was designed so that the total pension from all sources of service from 6 April 2006.
These schemes also provide a lump would be broadly in line with the pension he would have received from sum death-in-service benefit equal to four times base salary at date the Group pension schemes had he not been subject to the earnings of death, and a spouses death-in-service pension equal to two-thirds cap.
The Pension Simplification tax changes allowed the flexibility to of the prospective pension at normal retirement age.
Childrens remove the earnings cap for George Rose in respect of service from allowances are also payable, usually up to the age of 18.
Spouses April 2006, although some of his benefits will remain to be provided pensions and childrens allowances are also payable upon death in by means of an unfunded promise from the Company.
No further retirement and death after leaving the Companys employment with a contributions will be paid into his funded unapproved top up deferred pension.
Pensions are increased annually by the rise in the arrangement.
Further information on the amounts paid by the Company Retail Prices Index subject to a maximum increase of 5% per year in in respect of these arrangements is included in the notes to Table G respect of pre 6 April 2006 service and 2.5% per year in respect of on page 83. service from 6 April 2006.
Directors pay contributions at the same US pension benefits rate as all other employees participating in schemes.
Walt Havenstein is a member of the BAE Systems Employees Ian King is a member of the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan the Retirement Plan which provides a pension from age 60 for each year 2000 Plan, applicable to former employees of Marconi Electronic of pensionable service of 1.25% on his Final Average Pay FAP up to Systems MES, and a member of the ExPS.
The 2000 Plan provides Social Security Covered Compensation circa $70,000 plus 1.5% on a pension of 1 50th of Final Pensionable Earnings FPE for each year his FAP in excess of Social Security Covered Compensation.
FAP is of pensionable service, payable from a normal retirement age of 65. currently the highest three-year average of base salary plus bonus FPE under the 2000 Plan is the best three-year average of base salary but the averaging period will increase by one year each year beginning and bonus in the ten Plan Years prior to leaving, less an offset for in 2009 and reaching a ten-year average in 2015.
The Company decided in 2006 to limit pensionable contributions at the same rates as other employees in the plan.
The bonuses in the 2000 Plan in the 2006 07 Plan Year to 20% of base pension does not carry any spouses pension or pension increases.
salary and to 10% of base salary for the 2007 08 Plan Year and Walt Havenstein also receives a 50% match on his contributions thereafter.
However, there is a guarantee that the FPE figure for to his 401 k plan up to a maximum contribution of 8% of earnings.
benefits service prior to 6 April 2007 will not be less than the FPE Details of post-retirement benefits for each of the executive directors figure at 5 April 2007 to ensure that employees do not lose the who served during 2007 are shown in Table G on page 83 and are benefit of contributions paid on past bonuses.
Ian King joined the calculated in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A of the ExPS in 1999 following the BAe MES merger.
The ExPS tops up the Companies Act 1985.
2000 Plan benefits to provide a target benefit payable from age 62 of 1 30th of Final Pensionable Pay for each year of ExPS pensionable Other benefits service subject to a maximum of two-thirds.
Final Pensionable Pay for Other benefits provided to the executive directors include a car the purposes of this top up is calculated by reference to base salary allowance, the taxable benefit of any private use of a chauffeur and only, averaged over 12 months and 36 months as described above.
a cash allowance for medical examination.
Therefore Ian Kings total pension is the sum of his 2000 Plan benefits plus the top up from the ExPS.
The two Chief Operating Officers COOs were new in post in 2007.
In view of the requirement for the COO US role to be based in the Following the changes made to take account of the Pensions Washington DC area, Walt Havensteins package includes relocation Simplification tax changes which came into effect from April 2006, expenses in line with the Companys standard US policy.
As the UK executives reaching the Lifetime Allowance LTA are given a COO UK Rest of World is now required to spend increasing amounts number of choices as previously reported.
These are: of time in central London, the Committee has also agreed to provide remain in the pension scheme and pay any additional tax charge: or Ian King with a second home allowance.
opt out of the pension scheme and so earn no further pension Executive directors service contracts benefits in respect of future service and instead receive a taxable It is the Committees policy that executive directors should normally salary supplement.
This supplement will be 30% of salary and 20% have service contracts that provide for the Company to give the of salary for those senior executives with a two-thirds salary target individual 12 months notice of termination.
This policy has been after at least 20 years and 30 years service respectively: or chosen because it provides a reasonable balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals and the need to limit the restrict scheme benefits to the value of the LTA with the remainder liabilities of the Company in the event of the termination of a contract.
being provided directly from the Company as an unfunded promise.
The executive directors have service contracts with Group companies At retirement, the unfunded Company benefits can be either taken and details of these are as follows: as pension or can be commuted in full for a taxable lump sum.
Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period The Committee reviewed these arrangements in 2007 in the light of developing market practice and believes they remain appropriate Walt Havenstein 1 December 2006 3 months 3 months as they provide executives with choices which may better suit their either party needs whilst being broadly cost neutral to the Company, are in line Ian King 31 January 2007 12 months 12 months with market practice and do not compensate executives for changes either party in taxation.
George Rose 16 November 1998 12 months 12 months from amended: the Company, UK executives, including the UK executive directors, affected or likely 3 December 1999 6 months from to be affected by the LTA before April 2009 were provided with 15 January 2004 the individual independent financial advice paid for by the Company.
Mike Turner and and 17 October 2005 Chris Geoghegan elected to opt out of the pension schemes in April 2006 in return for a cash supplement of 30% of base salary.
Ian King In the event of the termination of an executive directors contract and Steve Mogford elected to have their scheme benefits restricted in it is the Committees policy to seek to limit any payment made in return for a Company unfunded promise.
lieu of notice to a payment equal to the amount of one years base George Rose was affected by the previously applicable Inland Revenue salary.
The service contracts for all of the executive directors contain earnings cap on approved pensions and has an unapproved ie non-tax specific provisions to the effect that the Company has the right, and qualified pension arrangement to top up his benefits from the approved in Walt Havensteins case, generally has the obligation, to pay a sum BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 73 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued equivalent to 12 months salary plus the continuation of 18 months The Committee was satisfied that these arrangements were medical benefits in Walt Havensteins case in the event of the appropriate for the purpose of ensuring that Mike Turner remains Company terminating their contracts for reasons other than gross fully committed to the Company and fully incentivised in relation misconduct.
No executive director has provisions in his service to share price and EPS performance until the vesting date of these contract that relate to a change of control of the Company and neither options and awards.
The Committee also considered that these does the Chairman nor the non-executive directors in their respective arrangements, and the special incentive described on page 70, letters of appointment.
constituted an optimal incentive structure for Mike Turners remaining period of service.
Retirement arrangements for Mike Turner Mike Turner is employed under a service contract dated 22 February Other executive directors 1994 amended 30 May 1995, 3 December 1999, 8 May 2002, Steve Mogford, who retired as a director on 9 May 2007, had a 15 January 2004 and 14 October 2005.
It was announced on service contract dated 6 April 2000 as amended 15 January 2004 16 October 2007 that Mike Turner would be stepping down at the end and 28 October 2005.
Chris Geoghegan, who retired as a director of August 2008.
Under a termination agreement, he will at that time on 31 December 2007, had a service contract dated 10 July 2002 become entitled to a termination payment of 236,884 in respect as amended 15 January 2004 and 13 October 2005.
On leaving the of his contractual and statutory rights relating to the unserved portion Company, both were entitled to a payment of 12 months base salary of his 12-month notice period to 16 October 2008, together with any in lieu of notice as set out in their contracts.
Both waived their rights payment due in respect of his 2008 annual bonus.
to these payments in return for the same amounts being paid into the Executive Pension Scheme ExPS and matched by equivalent payments As a result of the pension tax changes which came into force on from the Company.
Their pension benefits were augmented by 6 April 2006, Mike Turner opted out of further accrual of pension purchasing additional benefits under the ExPS in accordance with the with effect from that date in return for a cash supplement of 30% schemes normal augmentation factors.
Further details are provided in of salary.
His pension on retirement will be calculated in accordance Table G on page 83. with the rules of the relevant plans by reference to his Pensionable Service to 6 April 2006 and Final Pensionable Pay at retirement.
Policy on external board appointments The long-standing policy of allowing executive directors to hold external Mike Turner will not be entitled to participate in the Companys non-BAE Systems related non-executive directorships with the prior Performance Share Plan for 2008 but, as announced on 16 October approval of the Committee will continue.
The Committee considers 2007, has been granted a performance-related conditional award as that external directorships provide the Companys senior executives described on page 70. with valuable experience that is of benefit to BAE Systems.
It is also In accordance with the termination agreement and the rules of the considered appropriate for BAE Systems to contribute to the pool of relevant plans, his existing options and awards will be treated as non-executive expertise available for the benefit of the wider business follows on retirement: community, thereby reciprocating the benefit that it in turn has received from other organisations which have permitted members unexercised options under the Executive Share Option Plan will be of their senior management teams to serve on the BAE Systems preserved, and may be exercised in full within 12 months after his Board.
The Committee believes that it is reasonable for the individual retirement.
Any performance condition in relation to those options executive director to retain any fees received from such appointments that remains to be satisfied will be waived: given the additional personal responsibility that this entails.
Such fees PSP awards that have already vested that is, awards granted in retained by the executive directors in 2007 for the period in which they 2005 and earlier years will be preserved, and may be exercised served on the BAE Systems Board were as follows: Chris Geoghegan within six months of retirement: 14,542: Ian King 27,000: Steve Mogford 14,027: George Rose 79,000: and Mike Turner 38,722 plus grants of Deferred Stock for unvested PSP awards that is, awards granted in 2006 and Units to the value of 49,460.
2007, the performance conditions will be tested at Mike Turners election either at retirement or at the end of the normal three-year performance periods.
Such awards will vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied, and may be exercised within six months.
The number of shares which vest will not be time prorated to reflect his actual service during the applicable three-year periods: and for the unvested matching award under the SMP granted in 2007 in respect of Mike Turners 2006 annual bonus and any matching award granted in 2008 should he elect to invest up to one-third of his 2007 annual bonus into the SMP, the performance conditions will be tested at his election either at retirement or at the end of the normal three-year performance periods.
The awards will vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied and will not be time prorated.
His linked investment shares will be released at the same time the matching shares vest.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Chairmans appointment, term and fees Non-executive directors appointment, term and fees Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on 1 July 2004.
His appointment The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do was for an initial fixed three-year term with effect from 17 May 2004 have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their appointment.
the date that he was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director The dates of their original appointment were as follows: and was extended by the Board in 2007, on the recommendation of the Non-executive director Date of appointment Expiry of current term Nominations Committee as chaired by Sir Peter Mason, the Senior Phil Carroll 07.09.2005 06.09.2008 Independent Director, for a second term of three years to 16 May 2010 unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Companys Articles of Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2009 Association, or by either party giving the other not less than six months Andy Inglis 13.06.2007 12.06.2010 prior written notice.
His appointment is documented in a letter of Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2009 appointment which is not a contract of employment and he is required Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 06.09.2008 to devote no fewer than two days a week to his duties as Chairman.
His Sir Nigel Rudd 10.09.2006 09.09.2009 appointment as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a Peter Weinberg 16.06.2005 15.06.2008 director of the Company.
His fee for the second three-year term, which has Subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment and subsequently at intervals been set by the Committee at 600,000 per annum, will not be subject to of no more than three years in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
review during the three-year term.
The non-executive directors are normally appointed for two consecutive three-year terms subject to review after the end of the first three-year period and with any third term of three years being subject to rigorous review and taking into account the need progressively to refresh the Board.
They do not have periods of notice and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation when their appointment terminates.
They are subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years.
Sue Birley retired from the Board on 9 May 2007 at the conclusion of the 2007 AGM, having originally been appointed to the Board on 22 November 2000, and Ulrich Cartellieri retired from the Board on 26 September 2007, having originally been appointed to the Board on 1 December 1999.
The letters of appointment for non-executive directors detail the amount of time it is anticipated that the individual will need to devote to his or her duties as a director.
Non-executive directors are proposed by the Nominations Committee and are appointed by the Board on the basis of their experience to provide independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
The level of their fees is set by the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee to reflect the time commitment required of the director and after reviewing practice in other comparable companies.
The fee level for the chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, and Remuneration Committees, and for the Senior Independent Director, reflects their additional responsibilities and workload.
Non-executive director 2007 fee 2008 fee Chairman Audit Committee 77,500 83,000 Senior Independent Director 72,500 78,000 Chairman Remuneration Committee 72,500 78,000 Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee 72,500 78,000 Other non-executive directors 57,500 63,000 In addition, a transatlantic meeting allowance of 4,000 per meeting is paid to European-based non-executive directors attending meetings in the US and US-based non-executive directors attending meetings in Europe.
By order of the Board Dick Olver Chairman 20 February 2008 BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 75 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Table A The table below gives details of the interests in ordinary shares in BAE Systems plc held by directors and their connected persons for those individuals who were directors of the Company as at 31 December 2007.
There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors listed in the table below between 31 December 2007 and 20 February 2008 with the exception of the interests in ordinary shares of Ian King and George Rose who have each acquired an additional 77 ordinary shares since 31 December 2007 under the partnership and matching shares elements of the Share Incentive Plan so that their beneficial shareholdings at the date of this report stood at 317,974 and 538,109 respectively.
Directors interests As at 1 January 2007 Share Performance Ordinary Restricted Matching Performance Share shares Options Share Plan Plan Share Plan Award 1 P J Carroll 2 C V Geoghegan 143,150 1,411,363 42,764 722,231 M J Hartnall 20,000 3 W P Havenstein 37,484 466,586 10,249 278,788 4 A G Inglis 5 I G King 164,002 1,186,815 75,627 638,707 Sir Peter Mason 25,283 R L Olver 40,000 R Quarta G W Rose 354,950 1,660,221 33,971 803,817 Sir Nigel Rudd M J Turner 435,880 2,446,712 137,924 1,363,562 P A Weinberg As at 31 December 2007 Share Performance Ordinary Restricted Matching Performance Share shares Options Share Plan Plan Share Plan Award 1 P J Carroll 12,000 2 C V Geoghegan 199,304 1,362,269 22,770 681,305 M J Hartnall 20,000 3 W P Havenstein 72,328 327,640 10,249 18,947 303,607 4 A G Inglis 5 I G King 317,897 1,270,250 37,950 46,410 552,675 Sir Peter Mason 25,283 R L Olver 40,000 R Quarta G W Rose 538,032 768,769 18,975 675,994 Sir Nigel Rudd 11,400 M J Turner 560,867 1,500,021 37,950 109,529 1,291,048 231,618 P A Weinberg or upon appointment 1 the ordinary shares held by Phil Carroll are represented by 3,000 American Depositary Shares 2 retired as a director on 31 December 2007 3 appointed as a director on 2 January 2007.
The option figures for Walt Havenstein include Stock Appreciation Rights under the Executive Share Option Plan.
4 appointed as a director on 13 June 2007 5 appointed as a director on 1 January 2007 76 76 www www.
baesyste ms. com ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Information subject to audit The Auditors are required to report on the information contained in Tables B, C, D, E, F and G on pages 77 to 83.
The Companys register of directors interests which is open to inspection contains full details of directors share interests.
Details of directors interests in the share option schemes and long-term incentive plans are shown in Tables B, C, D and E. The mid-market price for the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2007 was 498p 2006 425.75p and the range during 2007 was 401.5p to 515p.
Table B Long-term incentive plans Share Matching Plan 1 January Awarded during Vested during 31 December 2007 the year the year 2007 1 C V Geoghegan 2 W P Havenstein 18,947 18,947 3 I G King 46,410 46,410 4 S L Mogford G W Rose M J Turner 109,529 109,529 The market price at the date of award for awards made on 22 March 2007 under the Share Matching Plan was 4.565.
The awards will vest, subject to the attainment of the performance condition, on the third anniversary of grant.
The performance condition for the grants of matched shares made in 2007 under the Share Matching Plan on a one-to-one match was based on real EPS growth over the three-year performance period, with one-third of the matched shares vesting where the Company achieved on average real EPS growth per annum of 3% but less than 4%, two-thirds vesting with a growth rate of 4% but less than 5%, and full vesting at growth of 5% or over.
The revised performance conditions for the Share Matching Plan for grants to be made in 2008 and 2009 are set out on page 72.
Restricted Share Plan In respect of shares vested during the year Market price at Market Awarded Vested date of price on 1 January during during 31 December Date of award Date of vesting 2007 the year the year 2007 award vesting 1 C V Geoghegan 42,764 19,994 22,770 26.03.04 2.00 26.03.07 4.5575 2 W P Havenstein 10,249 10,249 3 I G King 75,627 37,677 37,950 26.03.04 2.00 26.03.07 4.5575 4 S L Mogford G W Rose 33,971 14,996 18,975 26.03.04 2.00 26.03.07 4.5575 M J Turner 137,924 99,974 37,950 26.03.04 2.00 26.03.07 4.5575 The matching award of shares under the Restricted Share Plan, under which awards have not been granted since 2006, was historically not subject to any performance criteria as it was designed to retain key staff and encourage executives to re-invest in company shares the cash bonuses that they had earned under the annual bonus plan which was itself subject to performance conditions.
The Restricted Share Plan was replaced by the Share Matching Plan, which is subject to performance conditions as described above and on page 72.
Performance Share Plan In respect of shares vested during the year Market price at Market Awarded Vested date of price on 1 January during during 31 December Date of award Date of vesting 2007 the year the year 2007 award vesting 2 W P Havenstein 32,270 30.09.03 1.72 01.10.07 4.91 26,454 30.03.04 2.01 30.03.07 4.575 Total 278,788 83,543 58,724 303,607 Awards granted to Walt Havenstein a US national under the Performance Share Plan are characterised as long-term incentives rather than options as, subject to attainment of the performance condition, they are delivered automatically on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the award without the need to exercise an option.
They are subject to the same performance conditions as options granted under the Performance Share Plan to the UK-based directors as set out on page 78.
The market price at the date of the award granted on 30 March 2007 was 4.57.
The net aggregate value of assets received by directors in 2007 from long-term incentive plans, as calculated at the date of vesting, was 1,066,284 2006 nil.
or upon appointment 1 retired as a director on 31 December 2007.
With the Remuneration Committees agreement, the Matching award of shares under the Restricted Share Plan for Chris Geoghegan will be released in full at the end of the three-year period.
2 appointed as a director on 2 January 2007 3 appointed as a director on 1 January 2007 4 retired as a director on 9 May 2007 BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 77 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Table C Directors Share Options Performance Share Plan 1 January Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during 31 December 2007 the year the year the year 2007 1 C V Geoghegan 722,231 107,221 148,147 681,305 2 I G King 638,707 115,973 202,005 552,675 3 S L Mogford 722,231 575,545 146,686 G W Rose 803,817 122,538 250,361 675,994 M J Turner 1,363,562 310,175 382,689 1,291,048 4 Note: Awards granted to Walt Havenstein, a US national, under the Performance Share Plan are characterised as long-term incentives, rather than as options, and are shown under Table B.
With the agreement of the Remuneration Committee the performance condition on the 2005, 2006 and 2007 PSP awards for Chris Geoghegan will be tested at the end of the normal three-year performance period, and any part of the award vesting will be pro-rated for service completed and be exercisable for six months.
2 appointed as a director on 1 January 2007 3 retired as a director on 9 May 2007.
With the agreement of the Remuneration Committee the performance condition on the 2005 and 2006 PSP awards for Steve Mogford was tested at his date of retirement.
The 2005 award vested in full subject to pro-rating for service completed and the 2006 award lapsed.
All vested PSP awards became exercisable within six months of retirement.
4 appointed as a director on 2 January 2007 5 subject to a performance condition which has been met 6 subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested The date from which exercisable refers to the first date from which any tranche of the option remaining at the year end is exercisable subject to the attainment of the performance condition where the award has not yet vested.
TSR Awards granted under the Performance Share Plan between 2003 and 2007 are subject to the same performance conditions as those for awards to be granted under the PSP in 2008 as set out on page 71, ie 100% of the conditional awards vest if the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR is in the top 20% of TSRs achieved by a sectoral comparator group of 18 companies, with 25% vesting if TSR is in the top 50%, and nil vesting if the Companys performance is outside the top 50%.
The awards are also subject to the same secondary measure for underlying financial performance set out on page 71.
Awards that vest at the end of year three are exercisable in three tranches at the end of years three, four and five.
The mid-market price for the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2007 was 498p 2006 425.75p.
The range during the year was 401.5p to 515p.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SAYE Share Option Scheme All outstanding options held by the executive directors in the SAYE Share Option Scheme were exercised in 2007.
No further options will be granted under this Scheme.
 Exercise Date ofDate 1 January during the during the during the 31 December price Date of exercise from which Expiry 2007 year year year 2007 grant or lapse exercisable date 1 C V Geoghegan 435 435 1.56 20.04.04 01.06.07 01.06.07 01.12.07 2 I G King 435 435 1.56 20.04.04 01.06.07 01.06.07 01.12.07 G W Rose 435 435 1.56 20.04.04 22.08.07 01.06.07 01.12.07 M J Turner 1,499 1,499 2.56 09.04.02 07.06.07 01.06.07 01.12.07 The exercise of options under the SAYE Share Option Scheme, an all-employee scheme, was not subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
No further grants will be made under this Plan other than in exceptional circumstances.
Options granted under this Plan are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of their grant and options granted between 2005 and 2007 may only be exercised during this period as follows: i 33.33% of each option grant is exercisable if the Company achieves on average real EPS growth per annum of 3% but less than 4% over the three-year performance period: ii 66.67% of each option grant is exercisable if the Company achieves on average real EPS growth of 4% but less than 5% over the three-year performance period: and iii 100% of each option grant is exercisable if the Company achieves on average real EPS growth per annum of 5% or more over the three-year performance period.
The performance conditions for the grants of options made between 2001 and 2004 were the same as for grants made between 2005 and 2007 with the exception of the retesting provision: for grants made between 2001 and 2003, where the original three-year performance is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of years four and five against the full period from grant: for grants made in 2004, where the original performance target is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of year five against the full period from grant.
In all these cases the option will lapse in year five if the targets have not been achieved.
In determining the performance measures the Remuneration Committee took the view that the Companys major investors believe EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance and value creation.
On completion of the BAe MES merger in 1999, options were granted to executive directors and other senior executives under the predecessor Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options granted to Ian King in 1999 could only be exercised if the pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a real growth requirement of 9% was achieved and these options vested in full in February 2006.
Options granted to the other executive directors in 1999 which partially vested in 2004 were conditional on the satisfaction of a special performance condition based on the achievement of cost savings of the merger integration process over the three-year performance period commencing on 1 January 2000.
A breakdown of options held by executive directors under the Executive Share Option Plan is given overleaf.
Awards granted to Walt Havenstein under the Executive Share Option Plan between 2003 and 2005 were granted under the Stock Appreciation Rights SARS Schedule to that plan and are equity-settled.
They are subject to the same performance conditions as options granted under this plan as set out above.
Executive Share Option Plan Stock Appreciation Rights SAR Subject to Vested on  SAR Date 1 January during during during 31 December price Date of Date of from which Expiry 2007 the year the year the year 2007 grant exercise exercisable date 3 W P Havenstein 145,217 145,217 91,675 1.72 30.09.03 23.02.07 30.09.06 30.09.13 119,044 119,044 67,167 2.01 30.03.04 30.03.07 30.03.07 30.03.14 90,949 90,949 2.64 24.03.05 24.03.08 24.03.15 14,923 14,923 3.56 22.12.05 22.12.08 22.12.15 Total 370,133 264,261 158,842 105,872 During 2007 SAR awards over 264,261 shares were subject to exercise and the number of shares vesting and allotted under these stock appreciation rights totalled 158,842 as set out above.
In addition, Walt Havenstein has a cash-settled SAR over 53,010 ordinary shares granted on 27 November 2000 at a SAR price of 3.73, exercisable from 27 November 2003.
The right is exercisable until 27 November 2010 and was subject to the performance condition relating to options granted in 2000 ie exercisable only if growth in pre-exceptional EPS for any threeyear period over the ten-year life exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a growth requirement of 9% which has been met.
With the Remuneration Committees agreement, and exercise being subject to attainment of the performance condition, options granted prior to 2001 for Chris Geoghegan had their period of exercise determined as 24 months from the date of leaving and options granted from 2001 onwards had their period of exercise determined as the end of the options ten-year life.
2 appointed as a director on 2 January 2007 3 appointed as a director on 1 January 2007 4 retired as a director on 9 May 2007.
With the Remuneration Committees agreement, and exercise being subject to attainment of the performance condition, options granted prior to 2001 for Steve Mogford had their period of exercise determined as 24 months from the date of leaving and options granted from 2001 onwards had their period of exercise determined as the end of the options ten-year life.
5 subject to a performance condition which has been met 6 subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested The maximum duration for the grant of an option under the Executive Share Option Plan is ten years.
Table E Performance Share Award 1 January Awarded during Vested during 31 December 2007 the year the year 2007 M J Turner 231,618 231,618 Mike Turner was granted a contingent award over 231,618 shares on 16 October 2007.
The shares will vest in two equal tranches, for nil consideration, in the year following his retirement on 31 August 2008, subject to the satisfaction of certain performance targets by 31 August 2008.
These targets relate to continuing the successful implementation of the Companys business strategy, satisfaction of leadership objectives set by the Remuneration Committee, achieving an orderly handover of key external relationships and facilitating an orderly succession to the Chief Executive role.
The market price at the date of award was 5.10.
Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period from appointment.
The other pay received by Chris Geoghegan and Mike Turner was in respect of a cash supplement payable from opting out of future accrual under the Company pension schemes.
The benefits received by the UK-based executive directors include, where applicable, the provision of a car and the taxable benefit of any private use of a chauffeur, attendance at corporate events and support in relation to relocation second residence.
The benefits received by Walt Havenstein, the US-based executive director, include a cash allowance for a car, medical examination, dental benefits and insured life benefits.
The benefit received by the Chairman, Dick Olver, was the taxable benefit relating to the private use of a chauffeur.
In 2007, Chris Geoghegan and Steve Mogford were each entitled to a sum of 490,000, being 12 months salary in lieu of notice, to which they waived their rights in return for augmented pension benefits as disclosed on page 74 and in Table G on page 83.
The fees payable to the non-executive directors during 2007 are detailed on page 75.
In addition, a transatlantic meeting allowance of 4,000 per meeting was paid to the US-based nonexecutive directors, Phil Carroll and Peter Weinberg, who attended five meetings in the UK.
With the exception of Ulrich Cartellieri and Sue Birley, the remaining non-executive directors, being UK-based, received the same allowance to attend two meetings in the US.
Ulrich Cartellieri received 4,000 to attend one meeting in the US prior to his retirement from the Board and Sue Birley did not attend any meetings in the US during 2007.
Sir Charles Masefield retired as a director on 28 February 2003 and was employed by the Company on a part-time basis in an overseas representational role until 31 December 2007.
In 2007 his remuneration was 331,600 2006 316,600 and comprised a salary and a cash allowance for a car.
Sir Richard Evans retired as a director and Chairman on 30 June 2004.
He remained employed in a part-time customer relationship role and will cease to be an employee on 29 February 2008.
The Company will invite him to become a member of its Home Market Advisory Board for Saudi Arabia.
In 2007 his remuneration was 332,400 2006 317,350 and comprised a salary and a cash allowance for a car.
There were no other payments to former directors during the year other than the payment to Richard Lapthorne referred to in the notes to Table G on page 83.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Table G Post-retirement benefits Change in Accrued Increase accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in pension at decrease pension value at value at transfer value 31 December in accrued after allowing 1 January 31 December Directors less directors 1 2 2007 benefits for inflation 2007 2007 contributions contributions Age NRA per annum per annum per annum 3 C V Geoghegan 53 60 267,458 20,525 11,573 3,381,361 3,495,623 114,262 4 W Havenstein 59 60 75,905 19,073 18,350 590,700 791,208 3,375 197,133 I G King 51 62 373,388 40,934 28,882 2,736,838 3,075,417 46,230 292,349 5 S L Mogford 51 60 184,155 51,408 59,948 2,813,722 3,165,154 16,258 335,174 6 G W Rose 55 60 295,575 32,590 23,056 3,944,663 4,326,358 51,857 329,838 7 M J Turner 59 60 659,544 85,138 64,315 10,546,221 11,637,570 1,091,349 Normal Retirement Age 1 Accrued pensions may be reduced if they are taken before the normal retirement age of the scheme.
In addition, a longevity adjustment factor applies to UK pension accrued after 5 April 2006.
2 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
For UK-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used in the calculation of cash equivalents from the schemes.
For US-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used for accounting disclosures.
The amount of the increase in transfer value arising from the change in assumptions is: Chris Geoghegan 224,755 : Walt Havenstein 35,712 : Ian King 218,519 : Steve Mogford 132,759 : George Rose 271,274 : Mike Turner 693,464.
3 As a result of the changes to taxation of pensions introduced in April 2006, Chris Geoghegan elected to opt out of the pension scheme and since April 2006 has been receiving a taxable salary supplement of 30% of his base salary.
The pension shown above is the accrued pension at 31 December 2007.
Chris Geoghegan retired from the Board on 31 December 2007 and started to draw his pension with effect from 1 January 2008.
His accrued pension was reduced on retirement to 201,814 to allow for early payment.
This early retirement pension was increased by 32,102 pa by way of a Company augmentation of 980,000 relating to his payment in lieu of notice and the matching Company payment as referred to on page 74, calculated in accordance with the schemes normal augmentation factors.
4 Walt Havensteins accrued pension comprises of 13,902 from a contributory Qualified Plan and 62,003 from Non-Qualified Plans.
In addition, Walt Havenstein participates in a Section 401 k defined contribution arrangement set up for US employees in which the Company will match employee contributions up to a limit.
In 2007 the Company paid contributions of $6,308 3,173 into this 401 k arrangement.
In addition, the Company paid $13,427 6,754 into a Deferred Compensation arrangement.
Walt Havenstein is paid in US dollars.
Of the change in the accrued benefit and the transfer value 1,206 and 12,574 respectively is due to currency movements.
5 Steve Mogford retired from the Board on 9 May 2007 and started to draw his pension with effect from 1 June 2007.
His pension was reduced for early payment.
This early retirement pension was increased by 31,056 pa by way of a Company augmentation of 980,000 relating to his payment in lieu of notice and the matching Company payment as referred to on page 74, calculated in accordance with the schemes normal augmentation factors.
6 George Rose has an unapproved retirement arrangement for pensionable service before 5 April 2006 that is partly funded and partly unfunded.
No company contributions have been made to these arrangements during the year.
7 As a result of the changes to taxation of pensions introduced in April 2006 Mike Turner elected to opt out of the pension scheme and since April 2006 has been receiving a taxable salary supplement of 30% of his base salary.
Richard Lapthorne, a former director, has an unfunded pension arrangement payable by the Company.
In 2007, pension payments made by the Company to him were 93,554 2006 90,078.
