Report of the Directors Remuneration report Introduction This years Remuneration report is presented to shareholders in accordance with the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
In preparing the report the Remuneration Committee has reviewed remuneration policy for Executive Directors and in so doing has reafrmed its commitment to ensure that overall remuneration continues to be linked to organisational and individual performance and has a clear alignment with the interests of shareholders.
Remuneration Committee The Committee operates within terms of reference and governance policies approved by the Board and is responsible on behalf of the Board for: executive remuneration policy determining the service conditions and remuneration of all Executive Directors the evaluation of Executive Director performance with regard to the award of share options, annual bonus and other performance based remuneration obtaining independent professional advice in relation to Executive Director remuneration Membership and proceedings of the Remuneration Committee Membership and attendance of the Remuneration Committee is described on page 35 of the Report of the Directors.
All Committee members are considered to be wholly independent with no financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions.
The Group Chief Executive attends meetings of the Committee as required but he is not present when matters affecting his own remuneration are considered.
The Remuneration Committee has complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Committee recognises its accountability on executive remuneration to shareholders through this report and through regular dialogue with institutional investors.
In determining future remuneration policy it will consider both the shareholders vote on the report and views expressed by shareholders on the detail of the report.
Advice Advice is provided to the Remuneration Committee by the Company Secretary, Mr L Dent, a solicitor and Mrs J Mee, the Group Human Resources Director.
Mr Dent also acts as secretary to the Committee.
In addition, Hay Group were appointed by the Committee to advise on a range of issues, including the current market positioning of the Groups executive remuneration having regard to a comparator group of other housebuilding companies, including Persimmon, Taylor Woodrow, George Wimpey and Bellway.
Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited has advised the Company in relation to various pensions issues and, with effect from 10 July 2004, were appointed to provide actuarial services to the Barratt Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme.
Remuneration policy Each year the Remuneration Committee reviews the policy on executive remuneration in the context of the business environment, best practice and market trends.
There have been a number of important changes within the Group during the year under review.
These changes include the appointment of a new Group Chief Executive, the retirement of a number of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, a significant acquisition and the inclusion of the Group in the FTSE 100 index.
In light of these changes following the review a number of changes in practice have been adopted which are described in this Remuneration report.
Although there have been some changes in the structure of executive remuneration the underlying principles remain the same, namely the Committee believes that executive remuneration: is fully aligned with the performance of the Company and the returns received by shareholders rewards the sustained growth and profitability of the business conforms with market-leading best practice Central to the Group remuneration policy is recognition that the sustained growth and profitability of our business is determined in no short measure by the skill and commitment of the executive team.
The reward policy for Executive Directors seeks to provide remuneration and other service conditions which will attract, retain, motivate and reward Executive Directors of the highest calibre within the industrys highly competitive employment market.
Within these broad objectives the executive remuneration package is based on the following principles: the greater part of remuneration paid to executives should be linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets: currently over 50% of the total executive remuneration package is performance based Barratt Developments PLC 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Remuneration report performance related remuneration should align the interests of executives with those of shareholders by setting performance targets based on measures of shareholder return total remuneration for outstanding performance should be competitive with that available elsewhere in the sector The remuneration package for Executive Directors The remuneration package for Executive Directors comprises: basic salary annual performance related bonus long-term share incentives pension and other benets Typically the performance related element of executive remuneration makes up more than 50% of the total package excluding pension benets.
The performance conditions which apply to the performance related element of executive remuneration are the same for all Executive Directors and are set out in the following sections of this report.
Basic salary Basic salaries for Executive Directors are a xed annual sum payable monthly in cash.
Salaries are set having regard to individual responsibilities, skills and experience and to competitive market practice.
As part of the review carried out the Committee looked at the market rate for similar positions in large national housebuilding companies, and also, for the first time, for companies ranked 51-100 in the FTSE index.
It is felt that this provides a broader perspective on pay, although the primary comparator group remains the housebuilding companies.
The changes to salary agreed by the Committee reect a significant increase in accountabilities for each position.
Salary increases take effect from 1 July 2007 and details are shown in the table below.
1 July 2007 1 July 2006 per annum per annum Mr M S Clare 630,000 Mr S J Boyes 350,000 309,000 Mr C Fenton 350,000 309,000 Mr M A Pain 350,000 309,000 Annual profit related bonus The annual bonus is dependent upon the achievement of demanding financial objectives and key strategic measures for the business, set annually by the Board.
For the attainment of 100% of target the amount of bonus will be 130% of basic salary.
The maximum amount of bonus which can be received by any executive is 180% of basic salary, for the attainment of 125% of target.
Previously there was no cap to the bonus payment.
If actual performance falls below 80% of target then no bonus will be payable.
Payment of the bonus is on a progressive scale with proportionately more being attainable for performance over and above target.
With effect from 1 July 2007 the minimum target below which no bonus is payable was raised to 90% and the maximum target was reduced to 110%.
Any bonus earned above target is deferred on a compulsory basis, with an opportunity for additional voluntary deferral.
The deferred amounts will be converted into shares, with an opportunity for additional matching shares to be received if further performance targets are met.
These additional performance targets are the same as those used for the Long-Term Performance Plan, as detailed on page 44.
No part of the annual bonus is pensionable.
Share option plan In November 1997 the Company adopted the current Executive Share Option Plan the Plan.
The grant of share options under the Plan is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, taking into account individual performance and the overall performance of the Group.
Options must be held for a minimum of three years from the date of grant before they can be exercised and lapse if not exercised within ten years.
The exercise of options granted under the Plan is subject to the achievement of an objective performance condition set by the Remuneration Committee namely that the growth in the earnings per share of the Company over a period of three consecutive financial years should exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index by at least 6% for options granted in 1997 and 1998 and by at least 9% for those options granted in and since 1999.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43 Report of the Directors | Remuneration report In accordance with best practice the Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance condition and for options granted after 1 July 2004 the three consecutive financial years over which the earnings per share growth target must be met will commence with the financial year during which the options are granted.
If the target is not met over this xed three year period, then options will lapse.
There will be no retesting of performance.
No options have been granted under the Plan during this financial year.
Options which have been granted in previous years remain unchanged and details of the terms of these outstanding awards are set out below.
Long-Term Performance Plan The Long-Term Performance Plan the LTPP was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held in November 2003 to take effect from 1 July 2003.
Awards under the LTPP are based on an annual allocation of notional ordinary shares equivalent in value to a maximum of 200% of basic salary with vesting taking place at the expiry of the three year performance period of the plan, subject to attainment of the agreed performance targets.
50% of the award will vest on attainment of a performance target based on basic earnings per share EPS growth and 50% based on Total Shareholder Return TSR.
For awards made in 2003 and 2004 a vesting schedule has been established so that, in terms of EPS growth, the full 50% will vest if EPS growth exceeds the Retail Price Index RPI plus 45% and 10% will vest if EPS growth exceeds RPI plus 30% with straight line vesting between these two points.
The remaining 50% will vest subject to TSR performance measured against the constituents of the FTSE Construction and Building Materials Sector Index.
Again a vesting schedule has been established so that the full 50% will vest if TSR growth is in the upper quartile of the comparative index and 10% vesting if TSR growth is at the median of the index, with straight line vesting between the two points.
Shareholders approved a change to these performance conditions at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, and for awards made in 2006 and thereafter the targets are as follows: for the EPS element of the target, the full 50% will vest if EPS growth exceeds the RPI plus 18% and 10% will vest if EPS growth exceeds the RPI plus 9%: for performance in between the award will vest on a straight line basis.
For the TSR portion of the award a peer group will be formed comprising listed housebuilders.
A vesting schedule will be drawn up by taking an average of the two highest and two lowest TSR gures for such companies over the performance period and creating a mid-point and an upper quartile from those two gures.
The full 50% will vest if the Companys TSR is within the upper quartile and 10% will vest at the mid-point mark: for performance in between, the award will vest on a straight line basis.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed these targets in the light of current circumstances and has agreed a change to the comparator group for the portion of the award based on TSR.
The rationale for this is twofold: the decrease in the number of listed housebuilding companies which are appropriate comparators: and the Groups inclusion in the FTSE 100 index.
For awards made during 2007 and thereafter the comparator group will comprise those companies ranked 51-100 in the FTSE index.
The Committee believes that this will more closely align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
The Committee also considered whether the comparator group used for the TSR portion of awards made in 2005 and 2006 remains a robust measure of the Groups performance, given that the comparator group now comprises only eight companies.
It concluded that the measure remains robust, but it will continue to review this decision during the life of these awards.
Pension benets Mr S J Boyes and Mr C Fenton are members of the Groups dened benefit pension scheme, which is now closed to new entrants.
The scheme entitles Mr S J Boyes to a pension on retirement at age 65 of two thirds of final pensionable salary after 40 years membership of the scheme.
The Executive Directors are also eligible for dependants pension and an insured lump sum of four times pensionable salary on death in service.
The final pension is calculated from the highest yearly average pensionable salary over three consecutive years during the last ten years of service.
The entitlement of Mr C Fenton is restricted by the earnings cap imposed under the Finance Act 1989, for service up to 5 April 2006.
Following the introduction of the Lifetime Allowance Pension Rules on 6 April 2006 the Committee has agreed to make changes to the existing pension provision.
With effect from 1 July 2006 all Executive Directors will have a choice of remaining in the dened benefit pension scheme as described above, or opting to leave this scheme and instead receive a cash supplement equal to 25% of their basic salary.
This choice is at the discretion of the individual Executive Directors.
Barratt Developments PLC 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Remuneration report In lieu of membership of the dened benefit scheme Mr M S Clare receives a cash supplement equal to 30% of base salary per annum, and MrMAPain receives a cash supplement equal to 25% of base salary per annum.
These cash allowances are in line with competitive market practice.
Service contracts All Executive Directors are engaged on identical terms on the basis of one year rolling contracts which can be terminated by twelve months notice given by the Company or by twelve months notice given by the Executive at any time.
There are no specic provisions for compensation on early termination.
The contracts entitle Executive Directors to the provision of a company car and membership of a private health care scheme.
Individual Executive Directors service contracts: Executive Directors Service contract date Effective date Notice period Mr M S Clare 26 June 2006 2 October 2006 12 months Mr S J Boyes 25 June 2001 1 July 2001 12 months Mr C Fenton 1 July 2003 1 July 2003 12 months Mr M A Pain 23 January 2006 1 March 2006 12 months Non-Executive Directors remuneration The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board on the recommendation of a Committee of Executive Directors and having regard to published data for the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors in listed companies.
The remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Board on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee and having regard to published data for the remuneration of non-executive chairmen in listed companies.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are appointed under terms set out in a letter of appointment.
They do not have service contracts and their appointments can be terminated by the Board at any time without notice and without compensation for loss of ofce.
Under governance policies approved by the Board, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three year term and usually serve a second three year term subject to performance review and re-election.
Beyond this a third three year term may be served subject to rigorous review.
The Articles of Association will be amended at the next Annual General Meeting to remove the maximum upper age limit of 70 years which applies to all Directors.
Date of last re-election Non-Executive Directors at Annual General Meeting Date of appointment Mr C G Toner 17 November 2005 15 May 2002 Mr R J Davies 11 November 2004 5 May 2004 Mr R MacEachrane 28 November 2006 1 May 2006 Mr M Pescod 11 November 2004 1 October 2001 Mr W Shannon 17 November 2005 1 September 2005 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45 Report of the Directors | Remuneration report Total Shareholder Return performance graph The following graph prepared in accordance with the Regulations shows the Group Total Shareholder Return TSR performance over the last five years against the FTSE 250 and a comparator index of listed housebuilders.
From 1 July 2007 the Comparator Group has consisted of a peer group of listed housebuilders comprising Barratt Developments, Bovis Homes Group, Bellway, Crest Nicholson, Berkeley Group, George Wimpey, McCarthy and Stone, Taylor Woodrow, Persimmon, Wilson Bowden and Redrow.
The Comparator Group in the TSR graph below was the peer group for all five years.
Prior to 1 July 2007 the Comparator Group was the FTSE Construction and Building Materials Sector Index.
The Board has chosen these comparator indices as the Group and its major competitors are constituents of one or both of these indices.
Executive Directors Shareholding Guidelines The following Shareholding Guidelines apply to Executive Directors: within five years of first appointment Executive Directors are expected to hold throughout their period of ofce ordinary shares in the Company equivalent to 100% of their basic annual salary, pro-rata holdings are required to be held in this first five year period for the purposes of determining the requisite level of each Executive Directors shareholding relative to basic salary, the share price shall be that prevailing on 30 June in each year provided Executive Directors hold the appropriate level of shares they shall be at liberty to sell shares so as to realise their Long-Term Performance awards or in the exercise of share options subject to the normal Listing Rule requirements for director shareholdings Executive Directors have until 31 January in each accounting period to increase their shareholding to the appropriate level Barratt Developments PLC 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Remuneration report The following tables and accompanying notes constitute the auditable part of the remuneration report as dened in part 3, schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985.
In addition Mr M S Clare received 385,270 in the form of Barratt Shares as compensation for the loss of benefit under his previous employers long-term incentive and share option plans.
This gure was calculated independently on a fair value basis.
The Executive Directors receive taxable benets in kind covering the provision of a motor vehicle, private medical insurance and some telephone costs.
The 2005 award which vests this year will be 10% of the maximum as the EPS target was not achieved and TSR achieved median performance against the comparator Group.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47 Report of the Directors | Remuneration report Directors pension benets Transfer value of the increase decrease Increase decrease in the accrued Increase in accrued Total pension over decrease Change in pension over pension the year to in accrued Transfer value Transfer value transfer value the year to accrued at 30 June 07 pension over of accrued of accrued over year 30 June 07 the end of less Directors the year to pension at pension at less Directors net of ination the year contributions 30 June 07 30 June 06 30 June 07 contributions Mr S J Boyes 29,511 234,093 175,374 36,620 1,607,305 1,798,366 173,249 Mr C Fenton 6,632 29,689 41,306 7,433 188,750 232,214 37,128 Mr G K Hester 17,763 617 246,755 253,752 6,997 Mr D A Pretty 7,909 50,666 159,559 5,874 904,812 988,235 78,143 Mr D A Pretty left service on 31 December 2006 and started to draw his pension on 6 April 2007, and in addition to the pension shown received a lump sum of 196,830.
The pension at 30 June 2007 reects the fact that because retirement was before normal retirement age a reduction was applied.
Mr G K Hesters membership of the pension scheme ended on 30 June 2006.
Directors own contributions have been deducted from the change in the GN11 transfer value over 2006 07.
The gures do not take account of any retained benets of the members.
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that the Director would receive if he retired at the end of the year.
The Listing Rules require this to be disclosed excluding ination.
The increase in the accrued entitlement is the difference between the accrued benefit at the end of the year and that at the previous year end.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the Directors pension benets.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Directors and, therefore cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
The mid-market high and low share prices of the Company during the year were 1,289p and 911p respectively.
No options of Directors in ofce at 30 June 2007 lapsed unexercised during the year.
There were no changes in the interests of the Directors shown above between 30 June 2007 and 25 September 2007.
On behalf of the Board Mr R J Davies Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 September 2007 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49
