Senior management team 36 Minerva plc Mark Cherry BSC MRICS Alexander Morris BSC Annual report and accounts 2007 Investment Construction Aged 44 Aged 35 Joined Minerva in April 2005.
He comes with wide experience Joined Minerva in October 2006 having previously worked in the fields of investment and development having previously on the Swiss Re Tower project for eight years, developing the worked for Postel Investment Management, Nelson Bakewell, building to shell and core, and fit-out.
Prior to that he was with Barclays Bank and more recently as a Director of Burford.
He is responsible for new acquisitions along with specific investment and development projects.
Arthur Rixon BSC Structured Finance Leigh Grant MBA FCIS Aged 56 Company Secretarial Joined Minerva full-time in November 1996 with responsibility Aged 48 for general property and structured finance.
He has spent 20 Joined Minerva in June 2007.
A qualified professional providing years in banking with Bankers Trust where he was a senior the Company with support on all Company Secretarial and Vice President and was responsible for all aspects of structured Corporate Governance matters.
He was previously Deputy financing both in London and the USA.
Company Secretary at ebookers plc, and Group Secretary at Senior plc.
David Wood BSC ACA Financial Control Peter Holroyd Aged 36 Construction Joined Minerva in July 2006 and is responsible for day to day Aged 51 financial and administrative control.
He qualified as a Chartered Joined Minerva in October 2005 after completing the Accountant with Touche Ross and has worked in the property Swiss Re Tower in the City of London as Swiss Re Insurances sector for the last 10 years with Chelsfield plc and Multiplex.
Prior to that he was in Property Development in Canada.
He is responsible for the Groups City of London construction projects.
Steven Yewman BSC MRICS Development Aged 37 Jonathan Huxley MSC MRICS Joined Minerva in May 1989 having previously worked at Land Investment Investors plc.
His responsibilities include development activities Aged 31 at Park Place, together with specific new projects.
Joined Minerva in May 2007 from Ballymore Properties Ltd where he worked for three years in London Docklands as Investment & Development Manager.
Prior to that he worked for ATIS Real and Drivers Jonas development consultancy teams.
Jonathan is primarily involved with new acquisitions, financial modelling and specific development projects.
Edward Moody BSC MRICS Asset Management Aged 46 Joined Minerva in August 1998 from the Corporation of London where he worked for nine years and headed the City Fund Portfolio.
Prior to that he had been at the London Dockland Development Corporation.
He is responsible for property asset management.
Corporate governance Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The Board considers good corporate governance to be fundamental to the success of the Company and is committed to the highest standards.
The way in which the Company has applied the principles of good governance as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and revised and reissued in 2006 the Code is set out below.
The Board has addressed the areas of non-compliance detailed in last years Annual Report.
Oliver Whitehead, independent on appointment, became Chairman on 21 November 2006 and, during the year, a process for appraising the Boards Committees and its members has been established.
The number of independent non-executive Directors on the Board and its Committees fell below the levels recommended in the Code when Oliver Whitehead was appointed as Chairman, but following the year under review, John McNeil has joined the Board and its Committees and John Matthews is expected to join shortly.
The Company has otherwise fully complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code.
Board of Directors The Company supports the concept of an effective Board leading and controlling the Company.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of effective controls which allows risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for setting overall strategy, acquisitions and disposals, internal control, approval of major capital expenditure projects, treasury and risk management policies, and consideration of significant matters relating to the raising of finance and corporate governance.
Governance The Board operates within the terms of its written authorities which include a schedule of matters which are reserved for its decision.
The current members of the Board, and the roles of each Director, are given in the biographical details of the Directors on pages 34 and 35.
Details are also provided, on page 48, for John Matthews who is expected to join the Board on 17 September 2007.
Board independence 37 Clive Richards remained the Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers that, notwithstanding that Minerva plc both Clive Richards and Christopher Sheridan have been members of the Board since October 1996, they Annual report and remain independent.
The Board considered Oliver Whitehead who joined the Board on 19 July 2006 to be accounts 2007 independent as a non-executive Director and on his appointment as Chairman.
John McNeil who joined the Board on 19 July 2007 and John Matthews who is expected to join on 17 September 2007 are also considered to be independent.
In making these determinations, the Board has considered whether each individual is independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could affect, the relevant Directors judgement.
During the year the Chairman met with the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors being present.
Board Balance The non-executive Directors are of high calibre and contribute wide ranging commercial and financial experience to the Boards decision making process.
The Board and the Nominations Committee continue to keep the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board under review and, since the end of the year under review, the Company has recruited John McNeil and John Matthews to strengthen the non-executive Director membership of the Board.
Corporate governance continued Board attendance In addition to meetings of Directors arranged to discuss particular transactions and events and attendance at the 2006 Annual General Meeting and Extraordinary General Meeting in November 2006, the Board met formally on seven occasions during the year under review.
The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings where they were members is shown below: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 7344 Attended Attended Attended Attended 1 Oliver Whitehead 7142 Salmaan Hasan 7 Ivan Ezekiel 7 Tim Garnham 7 Clive Richards 7344 Christopher Sheridan 7344 2 Andrew Rosenfeld 3 3 Christopher Mackenzie 2 3 2 1 Represents full attendance at Committee meetings during his membership.
2 Represents full attendance at all scheduled Board meetings held until he stepped down from the Board on 21 November 2006.
38 3 Represents attendance at all scheduled Board meetings, all Nominations Committee meetings and three of four Remuneration Minerva plc Committee meetings until he stepped down from the Board on 26 October 2006.
Annual report and accounts 2007 For each meeting, the Board is supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Rotation of Directors The Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election by shareholders, in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, whereby one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
In addition, all Directors are required to submit themselves for reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
In accordance with the Combined Code, non-executive Directors who serve on the Board for more than nine years are required to submit themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting thereafter.
Evaluation and Training The Board evaluation process was carried out based on a detailed questionnaire completed by all Directors and informal discussions with the Chairman.
Responses were constructive and where changes or improvements were agreed to be necessary these are being implemented.
The questionnaire covered an extensive range of topics including communications, competence and effectiveness of Directors, success of Board Committees, risk management and the appropriateness of the Groups strategy.
The evaluation process will be carried out annually and developed to ensure that the Boards performance continues to improve.
Training in matters relevant to their role on the Board is available to all Board Directors.
New Directors are provided with an induction in order to introduce them to the operations and management of the business.
Site visits are also arranged on request so that Directors may familiarise themselves with the Companys projects.
Company Secretary The role of the Company Secretary is carried out by the Finance Director.
The Board considers that combining these roles does not compromise the proper execution of the Secretarys responsibilities.
A newly appointed Deputy Company Secretary provides assistance.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company and to the services of the Company Secretary who is available to give ongoing advice to all Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance.
Board changes During the year, Christopher Mackenzie stepped down from the Board on 26 October 2006, Oliver Whitehead joined as non-executive Director and Chairman designate on 19 July 2006 and replaced Andrew Rosenfeld as Chairman of the Company at the 2006 Annual General Meeting on 21 November 2006.
Following the end of the year under review, John McNeil joined the Board as non-executive Director on 16 July 2007 and John Matthews is expected to join the Board as non-executive Director on 17 September 2007.
Board Committees The Board has established three standing Committees in which the non-executive Directors play an active role.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which are regularly reviewed and which deal with its authorities and duties.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committees are: The Remuneration Committee The Committee is responsible for reviewing the terms and conditions of employment of executive Directors including the provision of incentives and performance related benefits.
The Remuneration report is set out on pages 40 to 45.
The Nominations Committee The Committee is responsible for the selection and appointment of all Directors to the Board and for succession planning.
A report by the Nominations Committee is set out on page 46.
The Audit Committee The Committee is responsible for, among other things, the appointment of external auditors, reviewing the interim and annual financial results, considering matters raised by the auditors and monitoring the internal financial control system operated by the Group.
A report by the Audit Committee is set out on page 47.
Relations with shareholders The Company has always recognised the importance of clear communications with shareholders and Governance has encouraged a regular dialogue with institutional and other shareholders.
The Company holds regular meetings with, and presents to, its existing shareholders and potential new shareholders to discuss strategic and other issues.
Care is taken to ensure the protection of inside information which has not already been made available to all shareholders.
During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed of the progress of the Company through the announcement of financial results and other news that are released through the London Stock Exchange, other news services and the Companys website.
The principal means 39 of communication with private shareholders are through the Interim Report, Annual Report and the Annual Minerva plc General Meeting.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and any related papers are posted to shareholders Annual report and with the Annual Report at least 20 working days before the date of the Annual General Meeting to ensure accounts 2007 that the shareholders have sufficient time in which to consider the items of business.
The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders.
Separate resolutions at the Annual General Meeting are proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper consideration.
The Company counts all proxy votes and will indicate at the Annual General Meeting the level of proxies lodged on each resolution where such resolution has been dealt with by a show of hands.
Accountability and audit Internal control The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group which has been in place during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
As part of this process the Board carries out an annual review of significant business risks, considering the scope and effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
This involves the identification of risks specific to the areas of property, finance and external markets which impact on its objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to mitigate those risks.
These are reviewed, adopted and, if appropriate, updated during the year.
These include business risks, financial controls and the regulatory environment.
Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss for the period.
The Directors confirm that in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2007, suitable accounting policies, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have been used.
The Directors also confirm that the going concern basis is appropriate.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for maintaining the integrity of the Groups website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
UK legislation governing preparation and dissemination of financial statements may therefore differ from that in other jurisdictions.
Remuneration report The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee the Committee, is established under terms of reference approved by the Board.
These are kept under review and were most recently updated in June 2007.
Membership The Committee comprises independent non-executive Directors and the Chairman of the Company.
Christopher Sheridan was Chairman of the Committee throughout the year.
Clive Richards was a member of the Committee throughout the year.
Christopher Mackenzie served on the Committee until he stepped down from the Board on 26 October 2006.
Oliver Whitehead joined the Committee when he was appointed to the Board on 19 July 2006.
John McNeil was appointed to the Committee on 16 July 2007 when he joined the Board as an independent non-executive Director.
John Matthews is expected to join the Board as an independent non-executive Director on 17 September 2007 and will be appointed to the Committee.
Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the outcome of the decisions taken by the Committee.
Meetings and advice The Committee met four times during the year.
During the year, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP provided advice to the Committee in relation to executive remuneration.
The Company Secretary has provided administrative support to the Committee.
Remuneration policy The remuneration policy is designed to motivate, reward and retain executive Directors of the highest calibre in a way which is consistent with their contribution to the success of the Company, while aligning their rewards and incentives directly with the performance and growth of the Company.
The Committee considers annual performance bonuses and long-term share-based incentives to be the most effective mechanisms 40 of aligning the interests of the executive Directors with shareholders.
Minerva plc During the year the Committee reviewed the Companys remuneration policy with assistance from its Annual report and adviser and subsequently consulted with large shareholders and their representative bodies.
During the accounts 2007 consultation process the Committee gave consideration to the comments it received and the revised policy is set out in this report.
The Committee will continue to monitor the policy and make changes as appropriate, undertaking further consultation as necessary.
The remuneration packages currently comprise: Basic salaries and benefits Basic salaries and benefits are reviewed by the Committee having regard to a number of factors, including the responsibility and performance of the individual and competitive market practice.
Benefits to each Director principally include the provision of a company car, medical insurance and life assurance cover.
In addition, contributions to a defined contribution pension scheme, based solely on basic salary, were made or have been accrued in respect of all executive Directors.
Annual performance bonuses Previous policy Cash bonuses were awarded by the Committee having regard to a number of factors, including the performance of the Company and the performance of the individual.
These were capped at 150 per cent of basic salary.
Individual performance was measured by the achievement of strategic and personal objectives, including, but not limited to: identification and investment in suitable new opportunities: preparation for and attainment of planning consent: delivery of development programmes: and capital structure and funding.
Revised policy Bonus awards for the forthcoming year will be based predominantly on Net Asset Value NAV per share growth as follows: NAV per share growth over the year Percentage of salary awarded Less than 5 per cent Nil Between 5 per cent and 20 per cent Between 56.25 per cent and 225 per cent NAV per share growth is defined as NAV per share, plus dividends paid in the year, and will include such properties held for trading purposes as the Committee feels are appropriate.
In addition, a maximum of 25 per cent of salary may be awarded having regard to a number of factors, including those set out above under the previous policy.
Subject to performance, a maximum of 150 per cent of salary will be paid in cash and a maximum of 100 per cent of salary invested in Minerva shares.
The first tranche of the annual bonus, up to a maximum of 100 per cent of salary, will be in cash.
Thereafter payment will be made in cash and shares up to the maximum amounts set out above.
The shares will be deferred in equal proportions for two and three years and would be forfeited by an executive Director leaving the Group other than in limited circumstances.
Long-term share-based incentives Awards of share-based incentives are considered by the Committee annually.
The Company has ceased granting options under the Companys Executive Share Option Schemes and currently only operates the 2005 Executive Incentive Plan the EIP and the All Employee Savings Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave.
Previous policy Under the EIP, awards may be granted at a level of up to 200 per cent of basic salary worth of performance shares with the potential of up to a further 75 per cent of basic salary worth of matching performance shares if executives invest part of their bonus in shares.
Revised policy The level of award under the EIP will, in conjunction with the revised annual performance bonus, normally be up to and no more than 100 per cent of salary in performance shares with no opportunity for matching performance shares to be granted.
Summary of revisions to remuneration policy Overall, the incentive opportunity for executive Directors can therefore be summarised as follows: Revised Policy Previous Policy maximum maximum percentage of salary percentage of salary Annual performance bonus 250 per cent 150 per cent Governance EIP Performance shares 100 per cent 200 per cent EIP Matching performance shares 75 per cent Total maximum 350 per cent 425 per cent The Committee considers that the revisions to both the annual performance bonus and long-term share- 41 based incentives will provide a sharper focus for executives on the key performance measure of NAV growth as the Company undertakes its major development programme.
The use of NAV growth will enable Minerva plc Annual report and the Committee to respond to changing prospects for the real estate market, while the deferral of part of the accounts 2007 bonus into Minerva shares for a further two or three years will aid retention and create a greater alignment through executive shareholdings.
The Committee will continue to monitor the appropriateness of the policy to ensure that it meets the needs of the business as the Company evolves.
2 Retired as a Director on 30 September 2005.
4 Retired as a Director on 26 October 2006.
The levels of bonus for the executive Directors reflect the Committees assessment of the performance of the Company and the individual Directors which were judged to be above target levels.
