Remuneration report The Boards report to shareholders on remuneration and details of the compensation and contractual arrangements for Directors are set out below.
This report has been prepared in compliance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations, which impose certain statutory requirements for the disclosure of directors remuneration.
The Remuneration report the Report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and describes how the Company has complied with the Combined Code throughout the year to 30 September 2007 as it relates to directors remuneration.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to shareholders on the auditable part of the Report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the Report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The tables detailing Directors emoluments, interests in share options and shares awarded under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan on pages 34 and 35 have been audited.
The remainder of the Report, which is unaudited, sets out the remuneration policy that applied during 2007 and describes arrangements which are intended to apply for 2008.
Remuneration committee The current members of the Remuneration Committee the Committee are Malcolm Rifkind Chairman, Roger Cornick, Anita Frew and Giles Weaver, all of whom are independent Non Executive Directors.
All of the members served for the year under review except Anita Frew who was appointed after the year end, on 11 October 2007.
Their biographical details are shown on page 23.
The Committee, which operates on the basis of detailed written terms of reference, has been established by the Board to: a determine and recommend to the Board the Companys policy on remuneration of Executive Directors and senior employees: b determine the specific remuneration levels of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and other senior employees: c ensure that appropriate performance targets are set and that any payments made to Executive Directors and senior employees reflect achievement against such targets: d consider individual awards to Executive Directors and senior employees under all incentive schemes: e consider any award which might result in an employee receiving a total remuneration package of 250,000 or more: f consider the recruitment of any employee on a basic salary of 125,000 or more or with a basic salary plus guaranteed bonus of 125,000 or more: g approve the award of any annual bonus in excess of 100,000: h consider any redundancy or severance payment which exceeds the terms of the Companys standard policies, subject to a fide minimis limit of 25,000: i ensure that the Company maintains contact with its principal shareholders on remuneration matters, and to demonstrate that decisions on executive remuneration are taken independently and are complementary to the financial and commercial well-being of the Company: j approve all substantial changes to the Groups pension arrangements: k report to shareholders in accordance with relevant legal requirements and associated codes of practice.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which are reviewed annually, are available on request and are published on the Companys website.
The Committee is authorised to take external advice in order to fulfil its duties and appointed an external firm of consultants, DLA MCG Consulting, to advise on the levels of salaries and composition of benefits packages of the Executive Directors and other senior employees.
Remuneration policy The Groups remuneration policy is designed to reflect the importance of recruiting, retaining and motivating senior executives of the calibre necessary to maintain and improve the Groups position in the asset management sector.
The policy seeks to reward performance in a manner which aligns the interests of clients, shareholders, executives and other employees.
The remuneration policy will support the Companys aim to maximise long-term shareholder value.
The remuneration policy, which applies to Executive Directors and senior employees, will remain unchanged for 2008 and subsequent years.
The aim, within the overall policy design of retention and motivation, is to pay basic salaries and award benefit packages which are reasonable and competitive within the asset management sector.
In addition, the policy is designed, and will 28 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 remain designed, to deliver additional rewards through appropriate incentive schemes, both annual and long term.
These are directly linked to performance at both a corporate and an individual level.
The Committee recognises that any remuneration policy must be sufficiently flexible to take account of changes in the business environment.
In accordance with this need for flexibility, the Committee takes into account the overall competitiveness of the total remuneration packages of all senior executives.
When justified by performance, the at risk performance elements will form the most significant element of total remuneration for Executive Directors and senior employees.
The Committee has considered the levels of remuneration paid throughout the Group, having regard to the advice of DLA MCG Consulting and having also consulted with Charles Irby and Martin Gilbert when considering the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and senior employees.
Outlined below are the details of the individual reward components of the remuneration policy.
In providing details, the Report identifies those elements which are performance linked and the participation of the Executive Directors in them.
Executive remuneration Executive remuneration comprises a number of elements: i Basic salary The salaries of all employees, including Executive Directors, are reviewed annually and are determined by reference to external market research.
The Groups policy is to pay salaries which, when taken together with other benefits, will provide a remuneration package that is reasonable and competitive in the asset management sector.
The Group participated in the McLagan Partners 2007 compensation survey which provided salary comparisons for a range of employees across the Aberdeen Group, including the Executive Directors.
In addition, DLA MCG Consulting provided data and comment on the salaries and benefits packages for the Executive Directors and other senior employees.
The Committee also considered information included in other publicly available research and survey results.
Having taken into consideration all relevant factors, the Committee has taken the decision to maintain Executive Directors salaries at the same level as last year.
ii Annual bonus The policy is to recognise corporate and individual achievements each year through an appropriate annual bonus scheme.
The aggregate amount of cash bonus available in any year is dependent on the Groups overall performance and profitability.
Consideration will also be given to the levels of bonuses paid in the marketplace.
Individual awards, payable to all members of staff and which are non-pensionable, are determined by a rigorous assessment of achievement against defined objectives, and are reviewed and approved by the Committee.
The bonus awarded in any year will be paid in cash, some of which may be deferred, with a further element to be settled by the award of the Companys shares.
Such shares will only vest following completion of a three year retention period.
A significant proportion of the Executive Directors remuneration is expected to be paid by annual bonus, such awards to be based on the achievement of defined objectives.
Objectives may vary each year, but for 2007 the principal objectives for the Executive Directors included the conclusion of the integration of the ex DeAM business: management of costs and achievement of operating efficiencies: improvement of profitability and operating margins: and ensuring key client and staff retention.
Martin Gilbert has been awarded a bonus, at the same level as last year, of 2,625,000 for meeting his defined objectives for the year which included those detailed above.
656,250 of this award has been deferred and will be paid in cash in December 2009 and 1,312,500 will be used to acquire a number of the Companys shares which will vest in December 2010.
Andrew Laing has been awarded a bonus, at the same level as last year, of 400,000 for meeting his defined objectives for the year which included those detailed above.
87,500 of this award has been deferred and will be paid in cash in December 2008 and 137,500 will be used to acquire a number of the Companys shares which will vest in December 2010.
Bill Rattray has been awarded a bonus, at the same level as last year, of 400,000 for meeting his defined objectives for the year which included those detailed above.
In line with the Groups remuneration policy of retaining flexibility, and in common with practice in the asset management sector, it has been decided to continue the policy of not imposing any maxima based on a relationship to basic salary.
iii Long Term Incentive Plan The Group operates a share based long term incentive plan LTIP which was approved and adopted by Shareholders on 24 March 2005.
The LTIP is administered by an independent professional trustee based in the Channel Islands the Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 Remuneration report continued Trustee which, when exercising its discretion, will have regard to the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee.
After taking into account the recommendations of the Committee, the Trustee will make awards under the LTIP to selected Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Awards will be made over a specified number of shares and take the form of the acquisition of shares by a participant at the time the award is made on terms which mean that the ownership of the shares remains conditional during the relevant measurement period.
The participant will not obtain absolute ownership of any of the shares over which such an award has been made until the end of the relevant measurement period and then only to the extent that the performance targets have been satisfied.
Participants will be entitled to receive any dividends paid on the shares during the measurement period, even though the shares held will not have vested unconditionally.
However, any overpayment of dividends arising on shares which do not subsequently vest will be recovered by deduction from annual bonus awards.
Vesting of shares over which an award has been made will be dependent upon the extent to which the performance target has been satisfied.
The Committee has reviewed the appropriateness of the existing criteria and has decided that there should be no changes for awards to be made in 2007 and 2008.
The performance target which will determine the extent to which any LTIP award will vest requires the growth in earnings per share over the relevant measurement period to exceed the average movement in the stock markets in which the assets managed by the Group are invested.
This criterion has been chosen as being reflective of success in the asset management sector as it compares the Groups performance to a dynamic and meaningful comparator.
The Committee will thereafter consider whether these targets remain appropriate and challenging and any amendments to these targets in respect of intended awards in later years will be disclosed in the Remuneration report for 2008. a if earnings per share have increased over the measurement period by a percentage that is at least 5% per annum greater than the average movement in the stock markets over the same period then 30% of the LTIP award will vest: b if earnings per share have increased over the measurement period by a percentage that is at least 10% per annum greater than the average movement in the stock markets over the same period then 100% of the LTIP award will vest: c growth in earnings per share that falls between these limits will result in a pro rated vesting of the LTIP award occurring between 30% and 100% depending upon the actual growth in earnings per share: d if growth in earnings per share over the measurement period is less than the lower limit set out in paragraph a above no part of the award made under the LTIP will vest, the award will lapse and the participant will cease to have any entitlement to any of the shares over which the award was originally made.
The movement in the stock markets will be measured by indices appropriate to the assets managed by the Group and shall be determined by the Committee.
The indices identified at the date of the first award included the FTSE All Share, the Russell 1000, the FTSE Europe ex UK, the FTSE Asia Pacific ex Japan, the FTSE Japan, the MSCI Emerging Markets and the FTSE A British Government All Stocks.
The Committee subsequently included two additional indices, the Lehman US Aggregate Bond and the IPD Pan European Property Index, to ensure that the basket of indices remained fully representative of the assets managed by the Group.
For the purposes of calculating earnings per share for any period, adjustments will be made to the earnings per share figure disclosed in the audited financial accounts.
The earnings per share figure will be amended to exclude the effects of i amortisation and impairment of intangible assets: ii impairment of goodwill: iii any charges arising from share options and LTIP awards: iv exceptional items, unless the Committee consider this to be inappropriate: and v any other adjustments deemed reasonable and appropriate by the Committee.
To the extent that an award has not vested, shares will be re-acquired from relevant participants by the Trustee for a nominal consideration of 1.
In addition to the performance condition summarised above, in accordance with the Plan rules no award will vest unless, in the opinion of the Committee, the underlying financial performance of the Company has been satisfactory over the relevant measurement period.
The length of the measurement period for any award will be three years.
The life of the LTIP will be ten years and no awards may therefore be made after 24 March 2015.
LTIP awards over ordinary shares are designed to incentivise senior executives in a manner which is consistent with the creation of value for shareholders.
As at the date of this Report, awards have been made in respect of 25,657,539 ordinary shares which have not yet vested.
This equates to approximately 4.0% of the current issued share capital.
Details of the awards which have been made to Directors of the Company under the LTIP are shown on page 35.
30 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The Committee intends to recommend further LTIP awards over 696,416 shares, which equates to approximately 0.1% of the current issued share capital.
Included in this total, which comprises awards to 11 people, are the following proposed awards to the Executive Directors: Number of shares Martin Gilbert 76,127 Andrew Laing 60,902 Bill Rattray 60,902 It remains the Committees intention not to recommend awards to any one individual in excess of 100% of annual salary in any one year except in exceptional circumstances, for example to aid recruitment or retention of staff.
However, as reported above, an element of annual bonus is also awarded in the form of shares with deferred vesting conditions.
iv Private medical cover Private health care is offered to all Executive Directors and employees who also have the option to cover their partners and unmarried dependent children.
v Pension Executives, including Executive Directors, are entitled to membership of the Groups defined contribution pension arrangements.
The employers contribution to this scheme on behalf of all employees, including Executive Directors, is 20% of basic salary.
In addition, on becoming a member of the Group pension scheme, the Group will provide life insurance cover that provides death in service benefits, currently amounting to four times basic salary.
The life insurance cover will also provide for a further three times basic salary to provide a dependants pension.
In light of changes to pensions legislation introduced in the UK from 6 April 2006, certain of the Groups UK employees have elected for employer contributions to the scheme to cease.
In these cases, the Committee has approved additional cash payments to be made as an addition to basic salary, such that the overall cost to the Group is no greater than the pension contribution which would otherwise have been made.
Any similar requests which may be made by employees in future will be treated in the same manner.
No such request will arise in respect of the Groups legacy defined benefit schemes, all of which are closed to future accrual.
vi Executive share option scheme The Group has an Executive share option scheme which is approved by the Inland Revenue and was approved by shareholders prior to its introduction.
An unapproved schedule was added to this scheme in 1999 to permit options to be granted within institutional guidelines but in excess of the reduced limits on approved options imposed by the Government.
In March 2004 the scheme reached the end of the 10 year period during which the grant of options was permitted.
Options were granted at the discretion of the Committee, for no consideration, and were based on assessments of the individuals expected contribution to future Company performance.
All options outstanding are now capable of being exercised, all having met their performance criteria: that earnings per share, before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and exceptional items increased over the period of 3 years from the date of grant, by 5% per annum in excess of the average growth in the stock markets in which the Groups AuM were invested.
Details of share options held by the Executive Directors are shown on page 34.
Total shareholder return The Regulations require the inclusion of a graph which illustrates the total shareholder return for a holding in the Companys shares against a broad equity market index.
The FTSE All Share Index has been used on the basis that it includes all UK listed stocks, including the Companys ordinary shares.
The graphs on the following page also include as a comparator the FTSE All Share General Financial Index.
The Board considers this to be an appropriate index against which to measure performance because it includes all other UK listed financial stocks and therefore represents the closest comparator for benchmark purposes.
Both of these indices are calculated on a total return basis, ie assuming reinvestment of dividends.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 Remuneration report continued 500 Aberdeen Asset Management FTSE All Share General Financial 400 FTSE All Share 300 200 100 0 -100 Sep-02 Sep-03 Sep-04 Sep-05 Sep-06 Sep-07 The Regulations require this information to be provided for the five year period to 30 September 2007.
The Board has decided to include an additional graph showing equivalent information for three year period, consistent with the period over which the vesting of long-term incentives is measured.
350 Aberdeen Asset Management FTSE All Share General Financial 300 FTSE All Share 250 200 150 100 50 0 Sep-04 Sep-05 Sep-06 Sep-07 Service contracts The Executive Directors have current service contracts, details of which are summarised below.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept a limited number of directorships outwith the Group, recognising that this can assist in the development of a Directors knowledge and capabilities.
All such appointments are approved in advance by the Board.
Where the appointment is accepted in furtherance of the Groups business any fees received are remitted to the Company.
If the appointment is not connected to the Groups business, the Director is entitled to retain any fees received.
The Group earned fees of 129,000 for Martin Gilberts services as a non executive director of several companies.
Martin Gilbert earned and retained fees of 160,000 for acting as Chairman of FirstGroup plc.
The Board has a policy which requires Executive Directors to acquire and retain a beneficial shareholding in the Company equivalent to 100% of salary, to be acquired over a period of no more than five years.
The holdings of the Executive Directors currently exceed this requirement.
32 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Provision of compensation 3 Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term for loss of office 1 2 M J Gilbert 30 August 1996 twelve six months Rolling twelve six months One years gross remuneration 1 2 A A Laing 30 August 1996 twelve six months Rolling twelve six months One years gross remuneration 1 2 W J Rattray 30 August 1996 twelve six months Rolling twelve six months One years gross remuneration 1 Amended by Deed of Variation dated 30 November 2001.
2 Twelve months notice given by the Company or six months notice given by the Director.
3 If the Company decides to terminate the Directors appointment without giving the required period of notice then the Director is entitled to be paid one years remuneration, which will include the value of all benefits including any bonus to which the director would otherwise have been entitled.
The Directors contracts also provide for termination on three months notice if, in the opinion of the Board and having given the Director adequate opportunity to improve, the Director has failed to perform at a satisfactory standard.
In such a case, the Directors contracts do not provide for any liquidated damages to be paid.
Non Executive Directors The remuneration of Non Executive Directors is determined by the Board.
Non Executive Directors are engaged under letters of appointment and they do not have contracts of service.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and are available on the Companys website.
The appointment will normally terminate on: i a Director choosing to resign voluntarily: or ii a Director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness: or iii the ninth anniversary of his her appointment: or iv the third or sixth anniversaries of his her appointment if the Nominations Committee does not approve the extension of his her appointment: or v a Director being found guilty of misconduct: or vi a Director not being re-elected by the shareholders following retirement by rotation at an Annual General Meeting.
The Non Executive Directors do not participate in the annual bonus scheme or the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Chairman, who also chairs the Nominations Committee, receives a fee of 140,000 per annum.
Fees are paid to the other Non Executive Directors at the following annual rates: For services as a Director 37,000 For services as Senior Independent Director 5,000 For chairmanship of Audit Committee 14,000 For membership of Audit Committee 5,000 For chairmanship of Remuneration Committee 10,000 For membership of Remuneration Committee 5,000 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 Remuneration report continued Directors emoluments audited information 2007 2006 Total Total Salary Bonus Other before Pension before Pension & fees payments benefits pensions costs Total pensions costs Total '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 EXECUTIVE Duties within the UK M J Gilbert 400 2,625 71 3,096 3,096 3,061 890 3,951 A A Laing 250 400 1 651 50 701 651 50 701 W J Rattray 238 400 1 639 47 686 596 39 635 888 3,425 73 4,386 97 4,483 4,308 979 5,287 NON-EXECUTIVE C L A Irby 132 132 132 104 104 D H Waters 55 55 55 50 50 Rt Hon Sir M Rifkind 47 47 47 44 44 C G H Weaver 46 46 46 41 41 R C Cornick 41 41 41 36 36 A M Frew 41 41 41 36 36 362 362 362 311 311 1,250 3,425 73 4,748 97 4,845 4,619 979 5,598 Martin Gilbert elected for employer contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension arrangement on his behalf to cease and as a consequence, he has received an additional cash payment of 70,000 for the year to 30 September 2007 2006 - 35,000 for the part of the year following such election.
This amount is included within Other benefits in the table above.
Full details are contained in note v Pensions, on page 31.
Directors interests in share options audited information Number Date Exercised Exercise Earliest Latest Status of of grant 2006 during year 2007 price exercise exercise performance M J Gilbert 8.12.99 240,000 240,000 185p Dec 2004 Dec 2009 Achieved 23.01.04 413,000 413,000 59p Jan 2007 Jan 2014 Achieved 653,000 653,000 A A Laing 8.12.99 200,000 200,000 185p Dec 2004 Dec 2009 Achieved 11.6.
