DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Report 61 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committees principal responsibilities are: setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the Companys overall remuneration policy and strategy: Baroness Hogg setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration Chairman of the arrangements for the Chairman, Chief Executive and Executive Remuneration Committee Directors, including terms and conditions of employment and any changes: 15BDear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration Report on remuneration for 2007 for which we will be seeking arrangements for the Group Executive Committee GEC approval from shareholders at our Annual General Meeting.
members and the Company Secretary, including terms and conditions of employment and any changes: The Remuneration Committee is focused on ensuring the remuneration policy enables the Group to attract, retain approving the rules, and launch, of any Company share, share and motivate the executive talent required for the successful option or cash-based incentive scheme, and the grant, award, delivery of our integrated gas strategy.
allocation or issue of shares, share options or payments under During 2007, the Committee reviewed BG Groups approach to any such scheme: and executive remuneration and the use of share-based incentives approving changes to the BG Pension Scheme rules or across the Group, against the international oil and gas market changes to funding and management arrangements.
in which we compete for talent.
The review was prompted by the continued evolution of BG Group and the need to compete with The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the remuneration practices in new geographical areas and markets, BG Group website Hwww.
comH and copies are available at a time when the employment market within the oil and gas on request.
industry is becoming ever more challenging.
The Committee comprises the Chairman and independent In order to ensure that BG Group can recruit and retain high non-executive Directors.
The Committee meets on at least quality management in a global market for talent, BG Group four occasions each year.
The members during the year were: needs to offer arrangements that are competitive with all industry Baroness Hogg Chairman participants.
Following consultation with our major shareholders, the Committee is seeking formal shareholder approval for a new Sir Robert Wilson Long Term Incentive Plan and has made some amendments to the Paul Collins Annual Incentive Scheme for 2008.
The Committee is also seeking Jrgen Dormann approval to replace our Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave Scheme Philippe Varin which are reaching the end of their ten year lives.
Keith Hubber, Company Secretary and his predecessors Ben The Committee appreciates your support for these changes, Mathews until July 2007 and Alan McCulloch acting until which we believe are in shareholders interests.
November 2007, attends meetings as Secretary to the Committee.
16BBaroness Hogg The following individuals attend meetings by invitation and provide 17BChairman of the Remuneration Committee advice to the Committee to enable it to make informed decisions: 12 March 2008 Frank Chapman, Chief Executive: and 0BAUDIT NOTES Robert Booker, Head of Performance and Reward.
In accordance with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985, as inserted by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations No Director is present when his or her own remuneration is 2002 the Regulations, the following sections of the report have being discussed.
been audited: Directors Remuneration: Directors Interests The Committee also meets without management and receives in Shares under the BG Group Long Term Incentive Scheme: information and independent executive remuneration advice Directors Interests in ordinary shares: and the table and notes a from Kepler Associates, an external consultancy firm appointed in the Pensions section of the report.
The remaining sections by the Committee.
During 2007, Kepler Associates provided advice are not subject to audit.
to the Committee on market trends, incentive schemes and other 18Bremuneration issues.
Kepler Associates does not advise the Company on any other issues.
Other external advisers also provide support and advice in relation a to executive remuneration to the Committee.
Towers Perrin a Kepler Associates, Towers Perrin, Herbert Smith LLP, Linklaters LLP and Watson Wyatt have given, and not withdrawn, their written consent to the issue of this document with the inclusion of the reference to their respective names in the form and content in which they appear.
A copy of each consent letter is available for inspection at BG Group plc, 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire, RG6 1PT.
Other than in the provision of the services outlined in this Report, neither Kepler Associates, nor Watson Wyatt provides any services to the Group nor has any connection with the Group.
Towers Perrin have been appointed to manage the design and implementation of a Flexible Benefits scheme.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued 62 provides general compensation and benefits advice and information 1BREVIEW OF REMUNERATION During the year, the Committee reviewed the remuneration to the Committee and to BG Group management.
Herbert Smith a arrangements for Executive Directors and the share-based LLP provides legal advice and services on share schemes as well arrangements used more widely throughout the Group.
as other legal services to the Group and to the trustees of the b a Remuneration was benchmarked on a total reward basis i. e. Ballylumford Power Pension Scheme.
Linklaters LLP provides including salaries, incentives and pensions against the FTSE legal advice on employee incentives as well as other legal a 30 excluding financial services companies and the international services to the Group.
Watson Wyatt provides actuarial advice oil and gas companies in our current and proposed TSR to the Committee, the Group, and the Trustees of the BG Pension comparator groups.
Scheme and the Ballylumford Power Pension Scheme as well as other general consultancy services to the Group.
These advisers are As a result of the review, the Committee decided to make and appointed by management or the relevant trustees as appropriate.
propose certain changes to the incentive arrangements for 2008 in order for BG Group to maintain its competitive position: 5BREMUNERATION POLICY x for 2008, GEC annual incentive awards greater than 100% The central premise of BG Groups remuneration policy is that, of salary will be deferred into shares that will not be released while reward arrangements should be market competitive, to the individual for a period of three years: employees should look to performance-related incentives rather than base salaries to earn above-average reward.
Performancex for 2008, the maximum annual incentive opportunity for the related incentive schemes form a significant proportion of the Chief Executive will be increased from 150% to 200% of salary, total reward package for executives and are designed to align and for the Chief Financial Officer from 125% to 150% of salary.
their interests with those of shareholders and establish a clear Superior levels of performance will be required to achieve link between pay and performance.
these new higher incentive levels: In defining BG Groups remuneration policy, the Committee takes x shareholder approval is being sought for the new Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 LTIP to replace the CSOS and the LTIS.
In into account advice received from external consultants and also best 2008, LTIP awards to Executive Directors and members of the practice guidelines set by institutional shareholder bodies, including GEC will be made via Performance Share Awards, subject to the principles and guidelines on executive remuneration issued by a face value limit of six times salary and an Estimated Present the Association of British Insurers ABI.
Value EPV limit of 250% of salary.
All other eligible employees To implement the policy, BG Group has a well-developed, Groupwill be subject to the EPV limit of 250% of salary and may wide performance management system and, during 2007, operated receive Performance Share Awards, Group Share Awards, or three complementary performance-related incentive schemes for a combination, at the discretion of the Company.
In subsequent executives: financial years, Executive Directors and members of the GEC may receive Performance Share Awards, Market Value Options x the Annual Incentive Scheme AIS designed to focus executives or a combination of these at the discretion of the Company.
on the business priorities of the financial year and to reinforce In addition to the above awards, other eligible employees the individual and Company performance ethic: may also receive Group Share Awards or a combination of these awards at the discretion of the Company.
All awards x the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS aims to motivate to participants will be subject to an individual EPV limit of 300% c participants to maximise total shareholder return TSR F of salary.
Further details are set out on pages 133 to 135: and as measured against a comparator group of international x shareholder approval is also being sought to replace the Share oil and gas companies over a period of three years: and Incentive Plan SIP and the Sharesave Scheme, which are x the Company Share Option Scheme CSOS aims to drive real reaching the end of their ten year lives.
earnings growth over the long term.
The mechanism used for measuring this is the growth in the Groups earnings per share 2BCOMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION d relative to the growth in the Retail Prices Index, excluding EPS The current remuneration package for Executive Directors comprises performance-related and  mortgage interest repayments RPIX.
The performance-related components are the The three schemes complement each other and enable the incentive schemes referred to above and the  and reward of both shortand long-term related components are base salary, taxable benefits and pension performance.
The Committee considers that the three year entitlements.
In addition, the Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes.
vesting period for the LTIS and the CSOS is appropriate.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group have been taken into account by the Committee in determining the remuneration packages for Executive Directors.
The Committee a See footnote on page 61. has also followed the provisions of Schedule A to the Combined b The Ballylumford Power Pension Scheme is a BG Group pension scheme.
Code that relate to the design of performance-related remuneration.
c TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a companys The proportion of each Executive Directors total remuneration shares over a period.
It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value that is performance-related is significant even for target of the shares and other payments to, or by, shareholders within the period.
For stretch performance, the proportion of total TSR is calculated on a common currency basis to ensure that international comparisons are fair.
The Committee believes that TSR is an appropriate remuneration that is performance-related is higher, as is the measure of relative performance.
total amount of remuneration payable.
d EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings for the financial year on a Business The average proportion of remuneration including pension that Performance measure by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in was performance-related in 2007 is illustrated by the following issue and ranking for dividend during the year.
The Committee believes that EPS chart.
In estimating the relative importance of those elements provides an appropriate measure of company growth.
EPS is published quarterly when BG Group reports its results.
For grants made on or after 21 July 2004, the of remuneration that are, and those that are not, performanceGroups published EPS is adjusted to take into account the volatility of both related as required by the Regulations, a number of assumptions commodity prices and exchange rates.
This adjustment is independently have had to be made about the Companys share price growth reviewed.
See page 64 for further details.
and TSR, relative to the Companys comparator group, over the next three years.
com DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 63 Composition of Remuneration package for Annual Incentive Scheme organisational Executive Directors Average performance measures Weighting of 2007 performance metrics for Executive Directors As a % of total remuneration including pension Target performance Stretch performance Target performance 15% 25% 48% 52% 75% 85% EPS and ROACE 75% and 25% respectively Performance related pay HSE Non-related performance-related pay Base salaries In determining the actual incentive payment, the Committee Executive Directors salaries are reviewed each year with any considers these results against the context of the overall changes normally taking effect from 1 April.
This review takes performance of the business and of the individual.
The into account individual performance, experience and market review of the overall performance of the business takes into competitiveness.
Pensionable salary is derived from base consideration such factors as operational performance, strategy salary only.
and business development activities and performance against industry peers.
The review of individual performance takes In line with our remuneration policy, the Committee benchmarks into consideration achievements against the individuals personal Executive Directors salaries against a comparator group, which, performance contract.
for the 2007 salary review, was the FTSE 30 excluding financial For the 2007 incentive year, financial performance against both the services companies.
Executive Director salaries are between EPS and ROACE targets and performance against the HSE balanced the median and upper quartile for this comparator group.
The scorecard were rated as stretch.
Taking into account these results Committee believes this positioning is appropriate given the and overall business and individual performance, the Committee significantly higher total reward levels at other international has awarded the Chief Executive an AIS payment of 140% of base oil and gas companies with which BG Group competes for talent.
salary, the former Deputy Chief Executive an AIS payment of 100% of base salary and the Chief Financial Officer an AIS payment of 110% 12BAnnual Incentive Scheme AIS of base salary.
Payments in respect of the 2007 incentive year were The Group operates a cash-based annual incentive scheme, made in March 2008. which in 2007 provided an incentive opportunity in the range of 0% to 150% of base salary 0% to 200% for 2008.
13BLong-term incentives At the start of the incentive year 1 January, the Board sets The narrative below relates to the current schemes that operated challenging budget and stretch financial performance targets during the 2007 financial year.
As noted above, approval is being and the Committee endorses other performance measures, sought for the introduction of a new LTIP, which will replace these notably with respect to health, safety and environmental schemes.
Further details of the LTIP can be found on pages 133 to 135. indicators.
Bonuses at the higher end of the range are payable When making the decision on the level of award, the Committee only for demonstrably superior Group and individual performance.
takes into consideration a number of factors including face value, For the Executive Directors, the performance measures for the EPV and scheme dilution limits.
a b 2007 incentive year were EPS, return on average capital employed The face value of an award is equal to the number of shares, or ROACE and performance against a Health, Safety and Environment c shares under option, multiplied by the relevant share price.
The weighting of each of these metrics relevant share price of an LTIS award is the average share price is illustrated on the next chart: for the 12 months immediately prior to the date of award.
The relevant share price for a CSOS award is the average share price for the three dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant.
a Actual results are adjusted to exclude the volatility of upstream prices, the US$ UK exchange rate, the volatility of natural gas prices on contracted The rules of the LTIS and CSOS each permit a maximum award with LNG cargoes and the Comgas regulatory current account.
a face value equal to 400% of salary in each year.
The maximum b Average capital employed consists of total equity excluding commodity financial combined award granted during 2007 was 400% of salary in LTIS instruments including associated deferred tax and net funds borrowings, and 400% of salary in CSOS.
averaged between the start and the end of the year.
Average capital employed is adjusted to exclude the volatility of upstream prices and the US$ UK exchange EPV is a measure that describes the economic or fair value of an rate.
Return on average capital employed represents Business Performance profit after tax excluding net finance income costs on net funds borrowings, award.
The measure takes account of the performance conditions adjusted as in a, as a percentage of average capital employed.
and the risk that grants and allocations may be forfeited.
c The HSE balanced scorecard measures performance across a range of leading and EPV is calculated independently by Kepler Associates.
lagging indicators reflecting the Groups commitment to HSE, and is designed to ensure that HSE performance is explicitly considered within the incentive framework.
The adjustments in a and b are independently reviewed.
For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued 64 19BLong Term Incentive Scheme LTIS These performance conditions are illustrated by the graph below: A limited number of key employees are allocated Company shares under the LTIS.
This allocation marks the beginning of a three year 20BLTIS performance conditions performance period.
The Companys TSR performance against that % of allocated shares transferred of a comparator group of companies over the three year period will 100 determine what proportion of the allocated shares will be transferred into the ownership of the employee.
There is no retest provision.
75 In the event of a change of control, vesting of shares under the LTIS is not automatic and would depend upon the extent to which the performance conditions had been met at the time.
Time pro-rating 30 will apply if the Remuneration Committee determines that this is appropriate given the circumstances of the change of control.
M UQ T For the 2004 allocation, the comparator group comprised 21 companies, including BG Group plc.
The Committee considered The performance period for the 2004 allocation ended on that this group represented an appropriate set of international oil 2 September 2007.
BG Groups final TSR for this period relative and gas companies against which the performance of BG Group to the TSRs of companies in the relevant comparator group was could be compared by shareholders.
measured by the independent TSR monitoring service of Alithos Limited and reviewed by Kepler Associates.
This analysis placed For the 2005 allocation, the group was reduced to 19, due to the BG Group in sixth position.
The Committee therefore decided, merger of Royal Dutch Petroleum Co. and Shell Transport and in accordance with the performance condition for the 2004 Trading Co. plc to form Royal Dutch Shell plc and the acquisition allocation, that 75% of the original allocation of shares had vested of Unocal Corporation by Chevron Texaco Corporation now called and, accordingly, these shares were transferred to the participating Chevron Corporation.
For the 2006 allocation, the group was reduced to 17, due to the acquisition of Burlington Resources Inc. by ConocoPhillips and 14BCompany Share Option Scheme CSOS the acquisition of Kerr-McGee Corporation by Anadarko Approximately 2 800 employees are currently eligible to participate Petroleum Corporation.
in the CSOS, including all UK payroll employees and those overseas employees above a certain grade.
For the 2007 allocation, the group was reduced further to 16, due to the merger of Statoil ASA and Norsk Hydro The Company grants an option over its shares to each eligible ASA's petroleum activities.
employee and the option price is set at the fair market value at the time of the grant.
As described below, the CSOS measures The other companies in the comparator group are currently as follows: performance according to EPS growth relative to the growth in the RPIX.
The Committee considers that an EPS performance measure Anadarko Petroleum El Paso Occidental Petroleum ensures that employees receive rewards only when the Company Corporation Corporation Corporation has achieved sustained earnings growth during the performance BP plc ENI S. p. A. Repsol YPF S. A. period.
The calculation of EPS growth for grants made on or after Chevron Exxon Mobil Royal Dutch Shell plc 21 July 2004 has been made using constant commodity prices Corporation Corporation StatoilHydro ASA and constant exchange rates.
ConocoPhillips Hess Corporation formerly Statoil ASA During the transition to the International Financial Reporting and Norsk Hydro ASA Duke Energy Marathon Oil Standards IFRS, EPS growth figures are being calculated on Corporation Corporation Total S. A. a consistent basis by restating prior years results in compliance Of these companies, nine are headquartered in the USA, one in with IFRS.
the UK and five elsewhere in Europe.
To the extent that the performance target has been met three years The Committee reviews this comparator group prior to making from the date of grant, the option may be exercised in whole or in any award under the LTIS.
part at any time up to the expiry of ten years from the date of grant.
The Committee has set the following performance conditions for allocations made under the LTIS: As in prior years, the levels of grant made to individual employees in 2007 were differentiated based on each individuals performance BG Groups TSR position to date and expectation of future contributions.
For the 2007 grant, in comparator group % of allocated shares transferred the Committee set the following performance targets: Top 100 Upper quartile 75 % EPS growth over RPIX over 3 years % of options that are exercisable Median 30 30 or greater 100 Below median All allocated shares are forfeited 15 50 Where performance is between upper quartile UQ and top Less than 15 Options are forfeited T or between median M and UQ, the percentage of shares A proportion of between half and all of the options will to be transferred is determined on a proportionate basis.
be exercisable if the Company achieves EPS growth over three years of RPIX plus between 15% and 30%, respectively.
com DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 65 These targets are the same as those that apply to the 2005 and 6BPENSIONS 2006 grants and applied to the 2004 grant and are considered The pension arrangements for Executive Directors are by the Committee to be particularly demanding.
These performance targets are illustrated by the graph below: As detailed in note 29, page 115, BG Group operates a number of pension plans across the Group.
Outside the UK, these plans are 21BCSOS performance conditions generally defined contribution or money purchase arrangements.
% of options exercisable In April 2007, a defined contribution plan was introduced in the UK 100 for new hires.
Employees who were already members of the defined benefit scheme continue to accrue benefits in that scheme.
3BDILUTION 50 The ABI has published guidelines relating to the disclosure of commitments to issue new shares or re-issue Treasury shares under a companys share-based schemes.
In the event of all options and awards outstanding as at 31 December 2007 under BG Groups CSOS under which options are currently satisfied by the issue of 15% 30% new shares and LTIS under which awards are currently satisfied % EPS growth over three years in excess of RPIX by the re-issue of Treasury shares becoming exercisable vesting Over the three year performance period for the 2004 CSOS grant, respectively, the resulting issue of new shares and re-issue the Companys EPS growth above the growth in the RPIX exceeded of Treasury shares would amount to 2.03% of the issued share 30%.
As a result, 100% of the shares under the option granted capital at that date.
to employees in September 2004 are exercisable prior to In the event of all options outstanding as at 31 December 2007 September 2014. under BG Groups Sharesave Scheme which involves the issue In the event of a change of control, exercise of an option under of new shares becoming exercisable, the resulting issue would the CSOS is not automatic and would depend upon the extent to represent 0.07% of the issued ordinary share capital at that date.
which the performance condition had been satisfied at the time.
Partnership and Free Share awards made under the SIP during 2007 were satisfied by the re-issue of Treasury shares.
These 22BAll-employee share schemes In order to encourage share ownership, the Company currently awards represented 0.002% of the issued share capital as at 31 December 2007. provides two all-employee share schemes for its UK employees, the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme.
The Companys intention is to continue to satisfy the future exercise 23BShare Incentive Plan SIP of options and vesting awards under the above schemes by the issue The BG Group SIP is approved by HM Revenue & Customs.
There of new shares and re-issue of Treasury shares as described above.
are two parts to the SIP the Partnership Shares Plan and the Free Shares Plan.
4BSHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES The Committee has adopted guidelines for Executive Directors, 24B a Partnership Shares GEC members and certain other senior employees to encourage Eligible employees are offered the opportunity to buy Company substantial long-term share ownership.
These require that, over a shares from pre-tax earnings as part of a regular share purchase period of five years from the introduction of the guidelines in 2002 plan.
Shares are currently purchased every six months using or date of appointment, if later, Executive Directors build up, and employees accumulated deductions and are placed in trust.
then retain, a holding of shares with a value equivalent to 200% of At 31 December 2007, 63.6% of eligible employees were participating base salary.
The required holding for other members of the GEC is in this plan.
Of those participating, 75% were contributing the 100% of base salary and for certain other senior employees is 50% of maximum of 125 per month.
The guidelines require that, in relation to the 2002 and later LTIS allocations, vested shares net of tax should be retained 25B b Free Shares by the individual until the required shareholding level is reached.
A Free Shares award of a maximum of 410 shares, representing the value of the 3 000 statutory limit, was made on 25 April 2007 to 7BSERVICE CONTRACTS all eligible employees in the UK, based on the Groups performance The Executive Directors service contracts, including arrangements during 2006.
These shares will be held in trust for up to five years.
for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate Directors of the quality For 2008, the Committee may approve the award of Free Shares required to manage the Company.
The Committee considers that in the Company up to the statutory limit for each individual.
a rolling contract with a notice period of one year is appropriate.
This number will be determined based on the Groups performance during 2007.
In line with the Companys policy, the Executive Directors service contracts contain change of control provisions.
Should the Directors 26BSharesave Scheme employment be terminated within 12 months of a change of control, The Company continued to operate the BG Group Sharesave they are entitled to liquidated damages.
The amount of liquidated Scheme in 2007.
The scheme is approved by HM Revenue damages is equal to one years gross salary and a credit of one years & Customs and enables eligible employees to acquire the pensionable service less any deductions the employer is required to Companys shares with the proceeds of a monthly savings contract.
make, which the Committee considers to be a genuine pre-estimate The contract period is three years.
The Committee considers that these provisions assist with of eligible employees were participating in the Sharesave Scheme, recruitment and retention and that their inclusion is therefore in contributing an average monthly payment of 221.22.
Of those the best interests of shareholders.
participating, 75.3% were contributing the statutory maximum of 250 per month.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued 66 Other than change of control, the Executive Directors service 11BPERFORMANCE GRAPH contracts do not contain provisions for compensation in the The graph below shows BG Groups TSR performance for the five event of early termination.
When calculating termination payments, year period ended 31 December 2007 calculated in accordance the Committee takes into account a variety of factors, including with the Regulations against the performance of the FTSE 100. individual and Company performance, the obligation for the The FTSE 100 was chosen because this is a recognised broad Director to mitigate his or her own loss for example, by gaining new equity market index of which the Company is a member.
employment and the Directors length of service.
Further details of the Executive Directors service contracts can be found on page 67.
Historical TSR Performance 8BSENIOR EXECUTIVES BELOW THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of senior holding over five years employees below the Executive Directors is entirely consistent with FTSE 100 comparison based on spot values that for the Executive Directors.
These senior executives all have a significant portion of their reward package linked to performance.
They all qualify for AIS, CSOS and LTIS, and their financial targets 500 are the same as, or cascaded from, the targets for the Executive Directors.
The Committee reviews and approves the individual 450 remuneration packages for the GEC members and the Company 400 Secretary in accordance with the overriding objectives of our remuneration policy.
Their individual performance is reviewed 350 and their increases in base salary, AIS payments, and CSOS and LTIS 300 awards are subject to approval by the Committee each year.
Under the proposed new LTIP, senior employees will continue to be treated 250 consistently with the Executive Directors and members of the GEC, 200 with the exception that a portion of the LTIP may additionally be made other than in Performance Shares, but still subject 150 to the overall plan limits.
100 9BNON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board aims to recruit non-executive Directors of a high 50 calibre, with broad commercial, international or other relevant 02 03 04 05 06 07 experience.
Non-executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
Their BG Group appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment.
FTSE 100 Upon the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, they are generally re-appointed for a second term of three years, subject to re-election by shareholders.
There is no notice period and no provision for termination payments.
The terms of engagement of the non-executive Directors are set out in a letter of appointment.
The basic annual fee paid to non-executive Directors is 65 000.
Additional fees are also payable, for example, for membership of, or chairing, a committee of the Board or acting as Senior Independent Director.
Fees are reviewed every two years, taking into account time commitment, competition for high quality nonexecutive directors and market movements.
The next review will be effective 1 July 2008.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share schemes, incentive schemes or pension schemes.
10BCHAIRMAN Sir Robert Wilson was initially appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004 and was re-appointed with effect from 1 January 2007.
In line with the non-executive Directors, Sir Roberts re-appointment is for a three year term and there is no notice period and no provision for payment in the event of early termination.
The fee paid to Sir Robert Wilson is 625 000 per annum, which is next subject to review effective 1 January 2009. www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 67 The following section of this report provides details of the remuneration, service contracts or letters of appointment and share interests of all the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2007.
b Each non-executive Director was paid a fee of 57 500 per annum until 30 June 2006.
From 1 July 2006, this increased to 65 000 per annum.
A fee of 5 000 per annum is also paid for membership of each of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees, other than for the chairmen of those committees.
The chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees received additional fees of 15 000, 10 000 and 10 000 per annum respectively until 30 June 2006.
From 1 July 2006, these fees increased to 20 000 per annum for chairing the Audit Committee and 15 000 per annum for chairing the Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees.
Paul Collins received a fee of 20 000 per annum as Senior Independent Director.
c Bonus figures for 2006 represent payments under the AIS in respect of the 2006 incentive year that were made in March 2007.
Bonus figures for 2007 represent payments under the AIS in respect of the 2007 incentive year that will be made in March 2008. d Salary figures for Executive Directors include Free Shares to the value of 3 000 received under the SIP in April 2006 and 2 993 in April 2007.
In 2008, Ashley Almanza, Frank Chapman and William Friedrich will be eligible to receive up to a further 3 000 worth of Free Shares under the SIP.
e Salary figures for Ashley Almanza and Frank Chapman for both 2006 and 2007, and for William Friedrich for part of 2006 and all of 2007, include a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
f In 2006, Sir John Coles received a payment of 5 000 in respect of an overseas trip.
g William Friedrich, who is a US citizen and retired as a Director on 13 December 2007, is covered by long-term care insurance if he returns to the USA.
The value of the taxable benefit for 2007 was 7 895.
Cover is being paid by ten instalments, the first of which was paid in 2002. h Sir Richard Giordano retired as Chairman and Director on 31 December 2003.
Sir Richard continues to be entitled to private medical insurance and long-term care insurance.
The long-term care insurance is being paid by ten instalments, the first of which was paid in 2002.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors who served during the year are set out below: Compensation payable Contract Unexpired Notice upon early date term period termination a Ashley Almanza 01 Aug 02 rolling 1yr 1yr n a Frank Chapman 14 Sep 00 rolling 1yr 1yr n a b William Friedrich 14 Sep 00 rolling 1yr 1yr n a a Other than the change of control provisions, the Executive Directors service contracts do not contain provisions for compensation payable upon early termination.
b William Friedrich retired as a Director on 13 December 2007.
Change of control As described on page 65, the Executive Directors service contracts contain change of control provisions.
For the purposes of these provisions, a change of control is deemed to occur if the Company becomes a subsidiary of another company: or if 50% or more of the voting rights of the Company or the right to appoint or remove the majority of the Board of the Company become vested in any individual or body or group of individuals or bodies acting in concert: or if all or substantially all of the business, assets and undertakings of the Company become owned by any person, firm or company other than a subsidiary or associated company.
A change of control is also deemed to occur if the whole of the issued capital of BG Energy Holdings Limited or a substantial part of the undertaking of that company including its subsidiaries is transferred to another company, unless that transferee company is a subsidiary of the Company, or a company ultimately owned by substantially the same shareholders as are the ultimate owners of the Company.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued 68 Change of Control continued However, a change of control does not occur if and only if through a process of reconstruction the Company becomes a subsidiary of another company owned by substantially the same shareholders as are the shareholders of the Company.
The Executive Directors service contracts provide that any payments made pursuant to these provisions will be made, less any deductions the employer is required to make.
Any such payments shall be in full and final settlement of any claims the Executive Director may have against the employer or any associated company arising out of the termination of employment, except for any personal injury claim, any claim in respect of accrued pension rights, or statutory employment protection claims.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Date of letter of appointment or Unexpired re-appointment term a Sir Robert Wilson 14 Dec 06 1yr 9mths Peter Backhouse 3 Jan 07 2yrs 2mths Sir John Coles 24 Jan 07 1yr 2mths Paul Collins 5 Feb 07 2yrs 2mths Jrgen Dormann 23 May 05 1yr 2mths Baroness Hogg 9 Feb 05 2mths b Dr John Hood 28 Apr 07 3yrs 2mths Lord Sharman 8 Jan 07 2yrs 2mths Philippe Varin 2 May 06 1yr 2mths The non-executive Directors letters of appointment do not contain any notice period or provision for compensation in the event of early termination of their appointment.
a Sir Robert Wilson was re-appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2007.
This is subject to his re-election by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
b The unexpired term is subject to election by shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
The performance conditions for the scheme are set out on page 64. c The market price on the date of vesting, 3 September 2007, was 7.815 and on the date of transfer, 6 September 2007, was 8.245. d William Friedrich stepped down from the Board and Board Committees on 13 December 2007 but remains an employee of the Group.
The Executive Directors also have a deemed beneficial interest in 154 978 shares as potential beneficiaries in the BG Group New Employees Share Trust.
com DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 69 DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN ORDINARY SHARES OPTIONS The number of share options held by the Directors under the BG Group Sharesave Scheme was as follows: Earliest Options as at Exercised Granted Lapsed Options as at Exercise normal exercise Expiry 1 Jan 2007 in year in year in year 31 Dec 2007 price date date a Ashley Almanza 3 458 3 458 1 340 1 340 7.16 Feb 2011 Aug 2011 Frank Chapman 2 398 2 398 3.95 Nov 2008 May 2009 b William Friedrich 1 606 1 606 5.82 Nov 2009 May 2010 a The market price on 1 November 2007, the date of exercise, was 8.81.
The total gain on exercise was 20 990.
This option was exercisable from 1 November 2007 to 30 April 2008 at an option price of 2.74. b William Friedrich stepped down from the Board and Board Committees on 13 December 2007 but remains an employee of the Group.
The total gain on exercise was 2 323 451. b William Friedrich stepped down from the Board and Board Committees on 13 December 2007 but remains an employee of the Group.
c The market price on 15 May 2007, the date of exercise, was 7.63.
The total gain on exercise was 2 685 210.
The performance measure for the CSOS is set out on pages 64 and 65.
The closing price of an ordinary share on 31 December 2007 was 11.50.
The range during the year was 11.52 high and 6.325 low.
All market price figures are derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued 70 ORDINARY SHARES The Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company at the end of the financial year were as follows: Beneficial interests in ordinary shares a As at As at 1 Jan 2007 b 31 Dec 2007 c Sir Robert Wilson 80 000 80 000 Ashley Almanza 176 591 320 914 Frank Chapman 435 815 718 320 d William Friedrich 619 593 626 872 Peter Backhouse 20 500 20 500 Sir John Coles 5 829 5 829 e Paul Collins 100 000 100 000 Jrgen Dormann 22 000 22 000 Baroness Hogg 5 904 6 585 Dr John Hood appointed 26 April 2007 Lord Sharman 1 956 1 956 Philippe Varin 5 000 5 000 a Beneficial interests including shares acquired pursuant to the BG Group SIP.
b Or on date of appointment if later.
c Or on date of retirement if earlier.
d William Friedrich stepped down from the Board and Board Committees on 13 December 2007 but remains an employee of the Group.
At that date, he held 77 740 ordinary shares in the form of 15 548 American Depositary Shares ADSs.
Each ADS represents five ordinary shares.
e Paul Collins holding is in the form of 20 000 ADSs.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings between 1 January 2008 and 12 March 2008.
As of 12 March 2008, the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company represent less than 1% of the issued share capital of the Company.
PENSIONS The basis on which retirement benefits are calculated for Frank Chapman, William Friedrich and Ashley Almanza has not changed during the year.
They receive an accrual of benefits designed to target a pension of two-thirds of their final 12 months salary on retirement from BG Group at age 60, inclusive of retained benefits.
As is the case for all other UK employees who became pension scheme members before 6 April 2006, they cannot be paid an immediate pension before age 60 on a non-actuarially reduced basis unless they have attained age 55 and completed ten years service with the Group including pensionable service transferred from previous employment and the Company expressly agrees to payment on an unreduced basis, or they are over the age of 50 and have been made redundant, or in the event of incapacity.
UK employees who became pension scheme members on or after 6 April 2006 cannot be paid a non-actuarially reduced pension until age 60, other than in the event of incapacity.
Pensions in payment are increased in line with retail price inflation.
An adult dependants pension is payable on death in service, equal to two-thirds of that payable to the pension scheme member based on potential service to age 65.
On death in retirement, an adult dependants pension is payable equal to two-thirds of the members pension prior to exchanging any of it for a cash lump sum.
All the Executive Directors were members of the BG Pension Scheme BGPS and the BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme BGSBS throughout the year.
The BGPS is a funded, registered pension scheme and the BGSBS is an unfunded, unregistered pension scheme.
The allocation of the Executive Directors benefits between the registered and unregistered schemes changed after 6 April 2006, when a new pensions taxation regime came into force.
Their BGPS benefits are limited to the lifetime allowance and the balance of their benefits is provided by the BGSBS.
Frank Chapman elected enhanced protection under the new regime and therefore has a personal lifetime allowance that is based on the value of his accrued BGPS benefits at 6 April 2006.
A provision has been made in the Company's accounts in respect of the obligations for unfunded post-retirement benefits.
As part of the changes made in response to the new pensions taxation regime, the earnings cap was removed in 2006 as a limit on BGPS benefits for all members including the Executive Directors.
The Company made two additional contributions to the BGPS to cover the consequential increase in BGPS liability and the second of these payments was made in January 2007.
There has been a corresponding reduction in the provision in the Companys accounts.
com DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 71 Directors pension provisions were as follows: Directors Increase in accrued Total accrued contributions in annual pension in year annual year to to 31 Dec 2007 pension at 31 Dec 2007 Age at 000 pa 31 Dec 2007 Retirement 000 31 Dec 2007 a b 000 pa age Ashley Almanza 17 44 30 25 155 60 Frank Chapman 17 54 73 57 510 60 c William Friedrich 17 58 65 52 451 60 Transfer value of Transfer value of Increase in transfer value accrued pension as at accrued pension as at over the year less Directors 31 Dec 2006 d 31 Dec 2007 d own contributions 000 000 000 Ashley Almanza 1 296 1 637 324 Frank Chapman 7 233 8 755 1 505 c William Friedrich 7 895 9 683 1 771 a Actual increase.
b Increase net of price inflation.
c William Friedrich stepped down from the Board and Board Committees on 13 December 2007 but remains an employee of the Group and continues to accrue pension.
d The transfer values shown at the end of 2006 and 2007 represent the value of each Executive Directors accrued pension based on total service completed to the relevant date.
The accrued pensions are the amounts that would have been paid if the Executive Director had left service at the relevant date.
The transfer values are calculated in accordance with guidance note GN11 issued by the Board for Actuarial Standards.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS To broaden the experience of Executive Directors, it is Company policy to allow each of them to accept one external appointment as a non-executive director of another company, the fees for which would be retained by the individual Director.
William Friedrich is a non-executive director of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc RBS and is a member of its audit committee.
In this capacity he receives a total annual fee of 100 000, which he retains.
RBS is one of a number of relationship banks providing a variety of commercial banking and other financial services to BG Group.
By order of the Board Baroness Hogg Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 12 March 2008 Registered office: 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Reading Berkshire RG6 1PT Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
