Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement of Corporate Governance continued 30 The formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to the Group Nomination Committee Board includes: The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman and up to four non-executive directors and is responsible for: setting corporate strategies and objectives: evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience approval of interim and final financial results and dividends: on the Board and the structure, size and composition of the appointment of directors: Board and its Committees: approval of major capital expenditure: annually reviewing the performance of non-executive approval of annual budgets and medium term plans: directors and Board Committees: approval of significant changes in the Groups structure and recommending and reviewing new appointments to the product range.
Board as they become due: and The Executive Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive reviewing and approving Board, Committee and senior and makes decisions in relation to significant operational and management succession.
financial matters affecting the Group.
The Board delegates As at 19 February 2008, the Committee members are: the management of the Group to the Group Chief Executive to approve all other matters within agreed financial limits, and Sir Derek Higgs Chairman he in turn delegates the operational and financial management Roy Brown from 4.05.07 of the Group to the executive directors and senior managers.
Mary Francis from 2.05.07 Margaret Salmon Appointment, Induction and Training of Directors Jonathan Watts The Board composition is kept under review to ensure that there Peter Barton resigned from the Committee on 13 May 2007. is an appropriate balance of directors, and their skills and experience are relevant for the requirements of the business.
Simon Lloyd is the secretary of the Committee.
The main focus of activity for the Committee during 2007 The Nomination Committee is responsible for the process for appointing new directors and making recommendations to the was the appointment of various directors, following a review of succession plans.
When considering a new appointment, the Committee agrees clear selection criteria and appoints an external Following the retirement of Michael Allen in December 2006 consultancy to identify potential candidates, from whom and the impending retirement of Peter Barton in May 2007, the a short list is presented to the Committee.
Committee engaged executive search consultants to assist in the Newly appointed directors submit themselves for election by selection of their replacements.
The Committees review of the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their mix of skills and experience that would benefit the Group the appointment and at least every three years thereafter.
The new most formed the basis for the search criteria.
From the shortlist directors have undertaken an induction programme, including of candidates interviewed, the Committee recommended the guidance on each directors statutory duties and legal appointments of Mary Francis and Roy Brown to the Board and responsibilities, to provide an understanding of the Group and they were duly appointed on 2 and 4 May 2007 respectively.
its strategy, products, markets and financial position.
They have In February 2007, Richard Pym, Group Chief Executive, held a series of introductory meetings with senior management, announced his intention to retire once a suitable replacement and all non-executive directors have made regular visits to the had been found.
The Committee considered the leadership needs Groups operational locations.
of the Group and, after considering both external and internal The Group Secretary has responsibility for advising the Board candidates shortlisted by an executive search consultant, recommended that David Bennett, the existing Group Finance on all governance matters and as such all directors may, at any time, seek access to the services of the Group Secretary and his Director, be appointed as Group Chief Executive and take on Retail Banking responsibilities.
Furthermore, all directors may in addition seek independent professional advice on issues affecting the Group, As a result of this appointment, Chris Rhodes, Managing Director, on request via the Group Secretary, at the Groups expense.
Retail Banking, was invited by the Board and accepted the role of Most members of the Board have attended external training and Group Finance Director.
These appointments were effective from development events to ensure that they continue to maintain 27 July 2007. the necessary skills and knowledge to fulfil their roles.
In addition, the Committee has adopted a continuous approach The appointment of all non-executive directors is documented to identify suitable candidates to join the Group Board as nonin a letter of appointment, the standard terms of which are executive directors, with the help of an executive search available on the Group website at www.
, and has interviewed candidates for future positions.
The Committee has reviewed and updated the standard nonBoard Committees executive directors letter of appointment in light of parts of the The terms of reference for the principal Board Committees are Companies Act 2006 becoming effective from 1 October 2007. reviewed annually and can be found on the Group website at Remuneration Committee www.
The composition of each The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining Committee seeks the best use of the non-executive directors the remuneration and contractual arrangements of individual skills and experience.
The current Board Committee structure directors, having regard to a policy framework on executive and the work of the principal Committees is set out below.
remuneration agreed by the Board.
The composition and work of the Remuneration Committee and the Groups remuneration Group Board policy is described in detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 40.
Group Audit Committee Nomination Remuneration Group Audit Group Risk The Group Audit Committee is responsible for a number Committee Committee Committee Committee of internal controls and the Groups Financial Reporting.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 The Committee: External Audit We considered and recommended to the Board the terms of reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal engagement for the external Auditors.
A report on the non-audit control: services provided by the external Auditors was considered and considers the annual Internal Audit and Compliance plans the level and categorisation of non-audit services was noted.
The and those departments activities, resources and Committee also reviewed Management Representations given to organisational structures: the external Auditors and considered the appropriate accounting approves the annual Internal Audit and Compliance plans and policies applied to the Group Financial Statements.
monitors their progress: Financial Statements reviews the Annual Report & Accounts and Interim Results on The Committee considered and recommended to the Board for behalf of the Group Board: approval the draft 2007 Annual Report and Accounts, Summary reviews the management representations: Annual Report and Preliminary Results Announcement.
It also noted the final dividend payment for 2007 and financial reviews the changes to accounting policy and compliance reporting developments.
In the last quarter of the year, we with best principles and regulatory requirements: considered the Group Accounting Disclosures Review, this reviews the control of the financial business risks: and Statement of Corporate Governance and the Statement of reviews the appointment and re-appointment of external Information given to the external Auditors by directors for auditors and the nature and scope of work to be performed the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts.
Jane Barker As at 19 February 2008 the members of the Committee are: Chairman of the Group Audit Committee Jane Barker Chairman Group Risk Committee Malcolm Aish The Group Risk Committee approves the Groups overall risk Rod Duke appetite and reviews and approves the policy statements relating Mary Francis to credit, market, liquidity and funding risks.
In addition, the Mike McTighe Committee oversees the effective implementation of the Groups operational risk policies.
The Committee also monitors the risks The Board considers that the members of the Committee have associated with the Groups pension scheme.
relevant skills and experience from a range of financial services and technology backgrounds, enabling them to apply meaningful The Committee also approves the use of the Groups economic independent judgement as part of their role.
In particular, capital models in relation to credit, market, operational, pension Jane Barker has the requisite recent and relevant financial fund and other risks, for the purposes of assessing capital experience, as recommended by the 2006 Combined Code, adequacy and measuring the risk adjusted performance of to ensure that the Committee can fulfil its role effectively.
Alison Ward, Head of Group Internal Audit, is the secretary It receives and considers reports on the status of key current of the Group Audit Committee and during 2007 the meetings and emerging risks and internal controls relating to those risks.
were attended by the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the The Committee also receives the report from the Group Money Executive Directors, the Director of Group Financial Control and Laundering Reporting Officer.
Reporting, the Director of Group Risk, the Group Secretary, the An overview of the Groups risk management and control Head of Group Compliance and representatives from Deloitte, framework can be found in Note 2 on pages 54 to 72. the external Auditors.
The Committee comprise four non-executive directors, the Group Jane Barker, the Chairman of the Committee, reports on the Chief Executive and Michael Thomas, the Director of Group Risk.
Group Audit Committees activities during 2007 as follows: In 2007 meetings were also attended by the Chairman, the I am pleased to report to you on the Committees activities executive directors, the directors of Credit & Risk for the in 2007.
Commercial and Retail Banks, the Director of Lending, the Group Secretary, the Head of Group Compliance, the Head of Group The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its Terms Internal Audit and the Money Laundering Reporting Officer.
of Reference, which are available at www.
An annual review was carried out to confirm the The Committee members as at 19 February 2008 are: Committee has complied with these Terms of Reference.
Malcolm Aish Chairman We met four times in 2007, and in accordance with the Terms of Jane Barker Reference we met privately with the Head of Group Internal Audit Roy Brown and the external Auditors, to allow them to discuss freely any Rod Duke items of concern.
David Bennett Michael Thomas Risk Management and Internal Control At each meeting the Committee considered a number of reports Richard Davies, Head of Operational Risk, acts as secretary to which detailed the Groups systems of risk management and the Committee.
Key issues identified in these papers were Malcolm Aish, the Chairman of the Committee, reports on the reviewed and reported back to the Committee until a satisfactory Committees activities in more detail below: resolution had been reached.
An annual report on Key Current and Emerging Risks supplement the Committees understanding I am pleased to report to you on the Committees activities of potential emerging risks that might impact the Groups in 2007. business in the future.
Our responsibilities are set out Internal Audit and Compliance in the Committees Terms of Reference, which are available at The Committee reviewed and approved on behalf of the Board the www.
I have set out below some Terms of Reference for the Group Compliance and Internal Audit of the key activities of the Committee in 2007. departments, the reports to the Committee of Group Internal Audit and the Head of Group Compliance and the Group Internal Audit and Group Compliance plans and resourcing for 2008. www.
co. uk Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement of Corporate Governance continued 32 Risk Management Framework In addition, Roy Brown, as Senior Independent Director, Throughout the year we have regularly reviewed reports on key met with the non-executive directors as a group without the current and emerging risks and internal controls relating to Chairman present, to consider the Chairmans performance.
those risks, to ensure that key risks impacting the bank are The results of the evaluation of each Committee are discussed understood and appropriate action is being taken to mitigate by the Committee and reported to the Board by its Chairman.
Reports from Group Internal Audit and Group Risk were received, detailing risk issues and control matters that have All aspects of the evaluation were reviewed and discussed by occurred across the Group.
the Board and it was agreed that emphasis would continue to be placed on succession planning, consideration of risk appetite As part of monitoring the overall effectiveness of the Groups and strategic planning.
The directors concluded that the Board is risk management framework, we have received regular reports on functioning effectively and fulfilling its duties and obligations.
the activities of the Groups other risk management committees including the Executive Credit Committee, the Assets and Accountability and Audit Liabilities Committee, and the Group Operational Risk The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Committee.
At the February and July 2007 meetings we reviewed controls and for monitoring its effectiveness.
The directors and approved the Groups Internal Control Policy certification.
are required by law to establish systems for the control of the conduct of the business under the Financial Services and As part of our task of monitoring the effectiveness of the Group Risk Markets Act 2000 and to conduct the business with prudence and function, in November 2007 we approved the Group Risk Terms integrity, ensuring that there are adequate reserves and other of Reference along with its 2008 plan and resourcing levels.
capital resources and assets in liquid form for the protection Credit, Market, Liquidity and Funding of depositors.
During the year, the Committee received and discussed reports The Board has delegated oversight of the Groups Internal from the Retail Banking and Commercial Banking in relation to Control Policy to the Group Risk and Group Audit Committees.
the extent of the Groups Credit, Market, Liquidity and Funding risks.
It has approved all the key credit, market, liquidity and The Groups system of internal controls is designed to manage funding policies, asset quality plans, lending triggers and rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business internal ratings models.
objectives, and provide reasonable assurance as to the effectiveness of the safeguards protecting the business against We take a keen interest in risks arising from changes in the the risk of material error, loss or fraud.
The Group Risk Committee UK economy and these are discussed in depth at each meeting.
received reports on the current operation of internal controls in We also regularly reviewed the risks associated with retail relation to key and emerging risks, and the Group Audit property prices.
Committee carried out an overall review of the effectiveness of The Committee has verified that we have at all times complied the Groups system of internal control for the year to with our liquidity policy, and the FSA rules on liquidity IPRU- 31 December 2007.
BANK, Chapter LS, and reviewed the liquidity stress test results.
There has been in place for the year under review and up to the Operational Risk and Capital Adequacy date of this report a process of identifying, evaluating and The Committee has received and discussed reports from the managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is Head of Group Compliance and the Groups Money Laundering regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Reporting Officer.
We approved the key Operational Risk Policies Guidance for directors within the Combined Code.
The Board receives monthly reports from the key executives From time to time we receive specific presentations from identifying performance against budget, major business issues, the senior managers within the Group that have functional risk impact of the external business and economic environment on their responsibility.
In February 2007 we received a detailed update areas of responsibility and significant risks facing the businesses in relation to Legal Risk within the Group.
and how they are being controlled.
The Board also receives minutes and reports from the Chairmen of the Group Audit Committee and Throughout the year we have received reports on the status of the Group Risk Committee.
These identify any significant issues the Groups capital adequacy framework and we have approved relating to the adequacy of the Groups risk management policies the Groups capital adequacy and stress testing policies.
We and procedures across the full range of risks to which the Group is have reviewed and approved the summary Full Internal Capital exposed, and how they are being controlled.
Each meeting of the Group Risk Committee and the Group Audit Malcolm Aish Committee receives a report identifying the effectiveness of internal Chairman of the Group Risk Committee controls together with specific reports on any significant issues.
Chairmans Committee The key features of the system of business control and risk The Chairmans Committee is empowered to make decisions on assessment established by the Board are: matters between Board meetings and comprises the Chairman or a non-executive director, the Deputy Chairman or another nona Group Internal Control Policy requiring all senior managers executive director and the Group Chief Executive or one other to identify major risks and monitor the effectiveness of executive director.
internal controls against key performance indicators applied throughout the business.
The effectiveness of these controls Evaluation of Board and Committees Performance is confirmed and certified to the Board in February and July The performance and effectiveness of the Board and its each year via the Group Risk Committee and the Group Audit Committees is evaluated annually.
The Groups Internal Audit Department carries out was conducted internally using a detailed questionnaire and reviews of the self certification process operated by each a self assessment by directors of their performance and a peer department or business unit as part of the audit of that evaluation of fellow directors.
Amongst the aspects reviewed department or unit: were the role and organisation of the Board, agenda and Board a well defined management structure with clear materials management, Board processes and composition and accountabilities and delegations: functioning of Board Committees.
the Group Audit Committee, the Group Risk Committee and a As part of the evaluation process, each director discussed his system of executive management committees, including the or her own performance and their individual effectiveness Executive Committee, enhance and support the oversight role evaluation with the Chairman.
of the Board: Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 a comprehensive planning and budgeting process that Communication with private shareholders is primarily managed delivers detailed annual financial forecasts and targets for by the Group Secretary.
All shareholders have the opportunity to Board approval: meet the directors at the Annual General Meeting.
This is held in the evening at the Companys Leicestershire head office.
If shareholders management information systems which enable the Board are unable to attend they are encouraged to vote by proxy and may to receive comprehensive monthly analysis of financial and appoint their proxy by post, on the internet or via CREST.
business performance including variance against budget: a Group Risk Management function and Group Operational Holders of ordinary shares registered on the appropriate record Risk Committee with overarching responsibility for the date are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the monitoring and reporting of all major risks to which the Company, or adjourned meetings either in person or by proxy Group is exposed, supported by specialist risk functions: in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their names at that time.
Each share carries the right to one vote a Group Internal Audit function which reports to the Group on a poll.
Audit Committee on the effectiveness of key internal controls in relation to these major risks: All shareholders can view their shares, register or amend a dividend mandate instruction, change address details and a Compliance function to manage relationships with the Groups key regulators and to identify major compliance register an email address online via www.
co. uk and following the online instructions.
and regulatory risks: Shareholders are also able to put questions to the Company a Financial Crime Steering Group, chaired by the Group via the website.
Secretary, which considers the potential exposure of the Group to loss through financial crime and the controls in The holders of any series of Preference Shares are entitled to vote place to mitigate the risk of such loss: at a General Meeting of the Company in certain circumstances a Money Laundering Reporting Officer and anti-money set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
In those circumstances, Preference Shareholders are entitled to one vote laundering procedures, and controls including training programmes for all staff: for each share held.
documented procedures and authority levels to ensure that The Group website at www.
co. uk risks involved in major projects are properly assessed and provides investors and potential investors with information controlled: and about the Company, share price information, annual and interim results, Company announcements, investor presentations, Group internal assurances given by senior managers to the Board policies and terms of reference for its Board Committees.
that all risks affecting the business have been reviewed and have identified any risks that need to be reported to the Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings auditors for the purposes of S234ZA of the Companies Act.
During 2007 The activities of the Group, including the systems of business Group control, are subject to supervision by the Financial Services Board Remuneration Nomination Audit Risk Authority.
The Group is required on a regular basis to submit Total number of 1 detailed prudential and statistical returns covering all areas of meetings held in 2007 15 6 5 4 5 its business and meets regularly with its supervisors, conducting Sir Derek Higgs, Chairman 15 6 5 the relationship in an open and constructive manner.
David Bennett 15 1 Richard Pym 6 4 Going Concern The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has to 27.07.07 adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable Roy Brown 10 3 2 4 future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern from 04.05.07 basis in preparing the accounts.
Peter Barton 4 3 3 2 1 to 13.05.07 Relations with Shareholders The Companys investor relations programme is tailored to meet Malcolm Aish 15 4 5 different shareholder requirements.
Richard Banks 15 Jane Barker 14 4 5 The Companys institutional shareholders can attend meetings, conference calls, presentations and results briefings.
The Rod Duke 15 3 4 Company values dialogue with its institutional shareholders, Mary Francis 9 3 1 2 who regularly meet with the Companys management and have from 02.05.07 the opportunity to request meetings with the Chairman and the Mike McTighe 13 5 4 senior independent non-executive director.
A representative Chris Rhodes 15 from one of the Companys institutional shareholders met with the Board during 2007 as part of the Groups communication Margaret Salmon 14 6 4 programme with institutional investors.
Jonathan Watts 13 4 The Board receives monthly updates on changes in the Groups Note: institutional share register, together with details and feedback 1.
Attendance figures indicate directors attendance at meetings where they from any meetings held with shareholders.
are a member of the board or committee.
Directors may also be invited and have attended additional meetings at the request of the Board or To ensure the Board is kept up to date on current external views, Committee Chairman.
directors also regularly receive copies of analyst research notes All directors receive the Board papers and if they are a member on the Company.
of a Committee the relevant Committee papers, and have the The Chairman and some of the non-executive directors attend opportunity to raise questions via the Chairman or Group results presentations, and the senior independent non-executive Secretary or Secretary of the Committees if they are unable director is available to deal with any concerns raised by to attend.
shareholders which cannot be resolved through the normal channels of the Chairman or Group Chief Executive.
co. uk Directors Report Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report 34 This report explains how the Company has applied the principles The Committees performance is evaluated on an annual basis and of good governance set out in the Combined Code and contains the results are reported to the Board.
The evaluation process is set the disclosures required by Schedule 7A to the Companies Act out in the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 29 to 33.
The report of the auditors on the Advisers financial statements set out on page 42 confirms that the scope The Committee and the Group use the services of Mercer Human of their report covers, where required, the disclosures contained Resource Consulting Mercer to advise specifically on pension in or referred to in this report that are specified for their audit related issues.
Mercer also acts as actuary and adviser to the by the UK Listing Authority and under the Companies Act.
Groups pension scheme and advises the Company on matters relating to the operation of the pension scheme.
New Bridge The report has been approved by the Board and shareholders Street Consultants NBSC were appointed to provide specialist will be invited to approve it at the Annual General Meeting on advice on technical aspects of the Groups share plans by the 13 May 2008.
Committee and replaced Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 February 2007.
NBSC also act as independent advisers to the Unaudited Information Committee on remuneration issues for the executive directors Remuneration Committee and senior management.
Towers Perrin advise the Company on Role remuneration issues for senior management below the Board.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for determining the pay and benefits including pension Remuneration Policy arrangements and contractual arrangements for the Chairman, To continue to deliver shareholder value the Group needs to executive directors and the Group Secretary, and for overseeing attract and retain high calibre people and create appropriate the Groups share plans.
The Committee also considers and reward opportunities for them.
The Boards remuneration policy monitors the structure and levels of remuneration for senior for executive directors and senior managers is aligned with this managers throughout the Group.
In fulfilling its role, the objective.
It rewards both individual and Group performance, Committee develops and recommends to the Board remuneration measured against performance criteria that are relevant, realistic strategies that drive and reward performance.
It operates under and challenging.
Remuneration arrangements will continue to the delegated authority of the Board and its terms of reference focus on incentive plans that encourage the delivery of strategic are available to view on the Groups website at www.
allianceand operating plans and shareholder value.
Under Committee guidelines, each executive director is required During the year, the Committee inter alia a reviewed the to build up over a period of five years and retain whilst a director, remuneration of the executive directors, associate and divisional a minimum holding of shares in the Company with a value directors, the Group Secretary and Group senior managers, equivalent to their annual basic salary.
b approved performance related awards under the Restricted Share Plan, c monitored the vesting of awards under the In 2008, annual salary will continue to be set at levels not normally Executive Share Option and the Deferred Bonus plans, exceeding market median, whilst bonuses and long term incentive d appointed new external advisers to the Committee in relation plans will enable executives to receive upper quartile rewards for to share plans, e rebalanced the award levels for directors under delivery of upper quartile levels of performance.
The Committee the Company Share Option Plan and Performance Share Plan reviews all elements of these reward packages by benchmarking LTIP, and f agreed the remuneration arrangements for David against other banks and financial services organisations.
Bennett in succeeding Richard Pym as Group Chief Executive and Performance Graph Chris Rhodes appointment as Group Finance Director.
The performance graph below shows the Companys performance, Membership and Meetings measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR, in comparison with The Committee comprises the following non-executive directors: the FTSE 100 Index over the five years ended 31 December 2007.
The FTSE Index was chosen as it is a broad equity market index Margaret Salmon Chairman of which the Company forms a constituent.
Roy Brown Mary Francis 200 Sir Derek Higgs Mike McTighe 175 Margaret Salmon became Chairman of the Remuneration 150 Committee following Peter Bartons retirement in May 2007.
Also in May, Roy Brown and Mary Francis joined the Committee.
125 The Group Secretary, Simon Lloyd, acted as Secretary to the Committee until 31 October 2007 and provided professional 100 advice to the Committee on governance issues.
Simon Lloyd was appointed as Group Secretary and Group HR Director on 1 November 2007.
Sandra Odell, Deputy Secretary, was 75 appointed as Secretary to the Committee with effect from 1 November 2007.
50 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec The number of Committee meetings held during 2007 and '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 directors attendance is set out on page 33.
The Group Chief TSR Total Shareholder Executive and Group HR Director attend Committee meetings Return, i. e. movement in share price plus reinvested dividends at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee to provide Alliance & Leicester plc background and context on matters relating to the remuneration FTSE 100 of the executive directors and senior managers.
The Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Secretary and Group HR Director are not present when the Committee discusses matters directly relating to their personal remuneration.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35 Components of the Remuneration Package Share Options Basic Salary All executive, associate and divisional directors were eligible Basic salaries of executive directors are set by reference to in 2007 for the grant of executive options under the Alliance & information from independent advisers on a specific financial Leicester Company Share Option Plans.
services comparator group and general market trends within Grants are made in two tranches following the final and companies in the FTSE 100 index.
The Committee reviews this interim results.
information in light of the performance of both the Company and the relevant individual, and has proper regard to pay levels Options granted in 2006 and 2007 will vest on a sliding scale: throughout the Company.
Salary levels are reviewed annually 50% of options awarded will become exercisable at earnings per in July unless an individuals responsibilities change and share EPS growth of RPI 3% per annum and 100% of awards may vary depending on each executive directors experience, will become exercisable if EPS growth equals or exceeds RPI 5% responsibilities and personal contribution.
Current basic annual per annum over the three year performance period.
Straight-line salaries are as follows: interpolation will be used for achievement between those points.
Executive options granted prior to 2006 were linked to the Name Richard Banks David Bennett Chris Rhodes achievement of compound EPS growth over a three year Amount 345,000 600,000 450,000 performance period of RPI 9%.
The achievement of this target results in full vesting.
The performance target for options to be Details of executive directors salaries paid in 2007 are set out on awarded in 2008 are under review by the Committee.
The aggregate value of new shares, over which options to Senior managers salary levels are also assessed annually against subscribe may be granted to each director in any year, cannot those of other major UK based financial institutions and FTSE 100 exceed a maximum total annual amount of two times that companies and the Company seeks to set pay levels around market individuals basic salary.
In 2007 the grant level was reduced median in line with the above stated remuneration policy.
for executive directors to 100% of basic salary from 150% in At 31 December 2007, the average basic salary for the most senior 2006, but an increase was made to the grant level under the Group managers was 192,000.
The salary banding for this group Performance Share Plan to 150% of annual basic salary see is as follows: page 36 for details.
The intended grant levels for associate and divisional directors for 2008 will be in the range of 100% Salary Band Number of Managers to 150% of annual basic salary.
125,000 150,000 4 Options normally vest after three years, subject to attainment 150,000 175,000 4 of the relevant performance conditions.
175,000 200,000 2 The Company Share Option Plan rules state that options are 200,000 225,000 exercisable prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant 225,000 250,000 2 where an option holder ceases to be employed by the Company 250,000 275,000 3 by reason of death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, Grand Total 15 retirement or transfer of the employing company outside the Group.
Also, in these circumstances, any performance conditions Annual Bonus attaching to the exercise of the options awarded prior to 2006 For 2007, bonuses were contingent on achievement of cease to apply.
The Committee may exercise discretion over the performance targets set by the Committee.
These combined Group vesting of awards in any other circumstances.
targets for pre-tax profit and return on equity with individual For awards made from 2006, if any of these events should performance targets.
Both the return on equity RoE target, of take place, the number of shares over which the option can be between 17% and 24%, and the pre-tax profit PBT target were exercised will be determined by the Committee, having regard calculated on a sliding scale.
A multiplier of 0.5 would be applied to the amount of time elapsed since the grant of the option, for meeting the PBT target and a multiplier of 0.5 for achieving and the extent to which performance conditions have been met.
21% RoE, rising to a maximum combined multiplier of 1.6 for achieving a defined level of PBT and an RoE of 24%.
Group targets Senior managers excluding executive, associate and divisional were consistent for all senior managers and directors eligible directors participate in a Restricted Share Plan under which to participate in the bonus scheme.
For individual performance awards usually ranging up to 15% of basic salary depending targets a multiplier of up to 1.25 is applied.
on individual performance ratings are made.
However, under the plan awards up to 150% of basic salary are permitted and, Assessment of executive directors performance against their exceptionally, awards of up to this limit are made to selected individual objectives was carried out by the Committee.
Individual senior managers excluding executive, associate and divisional performance objectives were directly linked to achievement of the directors in connection with delivery of the Groups programmes Groups strategic targets.
The Committee reviewed the Groups and projects.
These awards are subject to performance targets.
overall business performance in detail and noted that although the Groups overall performance had been affected by the unexpected Hedge Ineffectiveness global market conditions, underlying business performance during The Committee recognises that accounting volatility arises from the year had been strong.
The Remuneration Committee had the requirement in IAS 39 to measure all derivatives at fair value, therefore concluded that the payment to executive directors with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement in accordance with the rules of the scheme was appropriate.
unless designated as part of a hedging relationship.
The volatility from derivative fair value movements can be mitigated by An executive directors bonus for on-target performance was hedging, but in practice some accounting volatility will remain, 75% of salary with a maximum of 150% of salary for exceptional even where hedges are used to match the risk exposure on an performance.
The actual bonus was arrived at by calculating economic basis.
Therefore, for grants made from 2005, the the combined multiplier for performance against Group targets, Committee has agreed that calculation of the underlying EPS multiplied by the relevant individual performance multiplier should exclude fair value accounting volatility.
This is consistent and applying the resulting multiple to 75% of the relevant with the calculation of one of the Groups other primary strategic executive directors salary.
targets, return on equity, which also excludes this.
It is intended that a similar bonus scheme will operate in 2008.
It is not the Committees policy to award transaction related bonuses to executive directors.
Bonuses are discretionary and non-pensionable.
co. uk Directors Report Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued 36 Long Term Incentive Plans 30% of this part of the award will vest when the adjusted EPS Deferred Bonus Plan growth equals RPI 3% per annum, over the performance The last grant of deferred and matching options to executive period, with full vesting at a growth of RPI 8% per annum, and directors was made in 2005, relating to annual bonuses awarded straight-line interpolation applying between these points.
Existing awards of matched shares under the plan only For awards made in 2007 the performance test is in three parts: begin to vest when median TSR performance relative to the peer group is achieved, with linear progression from one matching One third of the award will vest in line with the Companys share at median performance up to three matching shares for relative TSR performance.
Friends Provident and Legal & 1 upper quartile performance.
The constituents of the peer group, General have replaced HSBC and Standard Chartered in the excluding the Company are: peer group: One third of the award will vest according to the Companys Barclays Bank plc Northern Rock plc adjusted EPS growth, on the same basis as the current EPS Bradford & Bingley plc HBOS plc target: The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Lloyds TSB Group plc One third of the award will vest according to the Companys performance against its RoE target.
30% of this award will Note: vest when the Company achieves an RoE of 20% over the 1.
The peer group originally included Abbey National plc.
Following the takeover of Abbey by Banco Santander a synthetic stock is now used.
performance period, with full vesting for achieving an RoE of 24% and straight-line interpolation applying between The rights to matching shares cannot normally be exercised for these points.
three years, except in the circumstances set out below, and lapse if not exercised within seven years of the date of grant.
TSR was The performance tests and comparator group for awards to be considered by the Committee to be a suitable measure for this made in 2008 are being reviewed by the Committee.
type of plan as it provided clear links with the creation of In the event of a change of control of the Group taking place, the shareholder value.
Committee, in its absolute discretion, will determine the extent to Under the Deferred Bonus Plan, options may be exercised prior which an award may vest, having regard to the length of time that to the third anniversary of the date of grant where the executive it has been held and the extent to which the performance targets director ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, illhave been satisfied.
health, disability or at the discretion of the Plan Trustees, based If an individual leaves the Group, an award that has not vested on the recommendations by the Committee, in any other will normally lapse.
However, in exceptional circumstances for circumstances.
Performance conditions apply unless waived by the example, as a result of retirement the rules of the plan allow Committee and are normally subject to a three-year performance awards to vest early at the discretion of the Committee.
Shares delivered in connection with the Plan will be sourced from Senior managers excluding executive, associate and divisional newly issued or treasury shares, subject to the usual dilution directors participate in the new deferred bonus plan introduced limits, or from market purchases.
No performance conditions apply to the exercise of options under this plan.
If the Committee decided to allow None of these benefits is pensionable.
directors to participate in the plan in future, a performance In 2007, Performance Share Plan awards were made to directors condition would be attached to the matching options.
with a maximum value including accrued dividends of: Performance Share Plan 150% of annual basic salary for executive directors: and Executive directors and, since 2006, associate and divisional directors participate in the Alliance & Leicester Performance Share 200% of annual basic salary for associate and Plan.
The annual award under the plan will normally be over divisional directors, shares and accrued dividends to the value of 100% to 150% subject to the achievement of the performance conditions set out of annual salary, having regard to the performance of the above.
In 2008 the grant level for executive directors will be in the business and the individual.
Awards of shares are reduced by range of 100% to 150% and for associate and divisional directors the anticipated dividends accruing over the performance period the grant level will be in the range of 100% to 150% of annual to better align the awards with shareholder returns.
Accrued basic salary, including anticipated dividends accruing over the dividends will be paid in cash in proportion to the number of performance period.
Employee Share Plans The maximum annual award under the Rules of the Plan is 200% Executive directors also participate in the Companys existing of annual salary.
Employee Share Plans, including the Savings Related Share Option The performance period is three years, with no re-testing.
Plan ShareSave and the Companys Share Incentive Plan SIP, For grants made in 2005 and 2006 the performance test is on the same basis as all other employees.
There are no in two parts: performance conditions attached to these plans.
50% of the award vests in line with the Companys TSR Service Contracts performance relative to a peer group of banks which consists Executive directors have service contracts that continue until of the following: terminated by twelve months notice but which in any event th Allied Irish Banks plc Bank of Ireland plc terminate on their 65 birthday.
Barclays Bank plc Bradford & Bingley plc The contractual provisions state that, if the employment of an HBOS plc HSBC plc executive director is terminated by the Company for any reason other than due cause without twelve months notice being Lloyds TSB Group plc Northern Rock plc given, the director is entitled to receive payment of twelve Standard Chartered plc The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc months basic salary and pension benefits.
In addition, the Committee, having regard to the individual directors performance 30% of this part of the award is payable at median for the period worked, may in its absolute discretion award a cash performance and maximum vesting is for achieving upper bonus in respect of the period worked.
Life insurance and medical quartile performance, with straight-line interpolation insurance cover will be maintained for twelve months from the between these points.
On termination by the Company no such The other 50% of the award vests according to the Companys payments of salary and pensions benefits will exceed a payment adjusted EPS growth relative to inflation over each based on the number of months from the date of termination of performance period.
employment to the executive directors normal retirement date.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2007
