42 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee This years remuneration report is The Committee operates within terms of reference and presented to shareholders in governance policies approved by the Board and is responsible accordance with the requirements of on behalf of the Board for: executive remuneration policy the Directors Remuneration Report determining the service conditions and remuneration of all Regulations 2002 the Regulations Executive Directors: and a resolution is being put to the the evaluation of Executive Director performance with Companys shareholders to approve regard to the award of share based incentives, annual bonus and other performance based remuneration: the report.
obtaining independent professional advice in relation to Executive Director remuneration.
During the year under review the Remuneration Committee has met seven times.
The Remuneration Committee has complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Membership and Proceedings of the Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are all Non-Executive Directors and during the year have comprised Christopher Masters chairman, William Jack, Gordon McQueen and Clare Salmon.
All Committee members are considered to be wholly independent with no financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive attend meetings of the Committee as required but are not present when matters affecting their own remuneration are considered.
The Remuneration Committee appoints and receives advice from independent consultants who are engaged directly by the Remuneration Committee.
These advisors provide guidance on the appropriate level of Executive Directors remuneration and comment on any proposals put forward by the Chief Executive or Chairman in respect of Executive Directors remuneration.
The guidance given includes all aspects of remuneration including salary, non-cash benefits, pensions and long term incentive plans.
In the first half of 2006, the guidance was provided by the Monks Partnership.
Since October 2006, the advice has been provided by the Hay Group who are now the appointed advisors to the Remuneration Committee.
The Board of the Company is comprised of both Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors and their remuneration is treated in different ways reflecting the different roles that they have.
Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 43 Non-Executive Directors Director and for membership of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for their ability to Additional annual fees are paid to Gordon McQueen, who contribute to the overall performance of the Company and to provide an oversight function using a broad range of skills serves as a director of Alliance Trust Savings and as the Chairman of its Audit Committee, of 2,500 and 5,000 and experience.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive salary, bonuses, pension nor share options but receive fees in respect respectively.
of the services which they provide.
Each Non-Executive Directors The composite fee of 75,000 now payable to the Chairman appointment is governed by written terms which are available includes service on all applicable committees and subsidiary for inspection at the Companys registered office and are also boards.
available at the Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive The Company and the Remuneration Committee take advice Directors are initially appointed for a term of three years.
from independent consultants who advise on fees and issues The Articles of Association of the Company set the maximum of comparability between the Company and other similarly aggregate amount which can be paid to the Non-Executives sized companies and companies operating in the same sector each year for services as a Director of the Company.
This to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors and Chairman are cannot be increased without shareholder approval, which was remunerated at a level which reflects the time commitment last given in 2006, whereby the maximum was increased to and responsibilities of the role.
Prior to the merger of the two trusts, which was completed on 21 June 2006, all Non-Executive Executive Directors Directors received fees from both The Alliance Trust and the Executive Directors are employees who are engaged full time in Second Alliance Trust.
During the year the levels of fees have the business of the Company and of its subsidiary businesses.
been considered with the benefit of external advice and The Executive Directors do not receive fees but are paid a salary adjustments made.
which is not restricted by the Articles of Association but is The Remuneration Committee determines the Chairmans fees determined by the Remuneration Committee.
and the Board as a whole determines the Non-Executive As part of the recruitment process to fill a number of senior Directors fees with the Non-Executives playing no part in the executive roles, including the main Board positions, it became decision making process on their own fee levels.
In June 2006 clear that the Executives remuneration structure required a the Company reviewed the fees paid to Non-Executive full review in order to recruit and retain individuals of the Directors to reflect additional responsibilities undertaken by requisite ability.
It was evident that the Executive Directors them in connection with the governance of the Company.
This current total compensation package was not commensurate included additional payments of 4,000 per annum to each of with that being received elsewhere by individuals of the the Senior Independent Director and the respective chairmen calibre sought by the Company.
In the latter part of 2006 the of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee undertook a formal review of The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors, including the advisors.
As a result of this review, the Hay Group was Chairman, were reviewed again in February this year.
No requested to conduct a total remuneration review and to change was made to the basic fee but the fees for additional assess the Companys existing remuneration arrangements duties were changed with effect from 1 February 2007 to against other companies of a similar size, or who are operating 5,000 per annum for the holders of the positions of Chairman in the same market in the provision of financial services, as of the Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Audit the Company.
This review, which included all elements of Committee, and 2,500 per annum for the Senior Independent remuneration and long term incentive arrangements, Fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors 2006-7 2005-6 2005-6 Alliance Second Alliance Lesley Knox 63,333 36,000 18,000 William Jack 30,500 18,000 9,000 Christopher Masters 30,500 18,000 9,000 Gordon McQueen 30,500 18,000 9,000 Clare Salmon 28,166 11,200 5,600 Note In 2006-7 the fees have been consolidated.
44 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations concluded that a number of adjustments were required.
As part of the review it was felt important to ensure that the Executive Directors were directly impacted by shareholder The total remuneration review identified that the current return and guidance has now been given to the Executive structure of base salary, an annual variable bonus and an Directors that they are expected to achieve and retain a incentive plan tied to any bonus the current SMEIP only shareholding equivalent to one years base salary accumulated represented part of what would now be regarded as a over a five year period.
In order to be competitive and to provide additional focus on the longer term Directors contracts performance of the Company, it was decided that the The current features of the Executive Directors contracts in Company should introduce a long term incentive plan.
The Remuneration Committee also reviewed the performance addition to salary and other payments detailed elsewhere in this section are: criteria attaching to the current plan and concluded that the Companys target should be an absolute return rather than a The contracts of Alan Harden, Janet Pope and David Deards relative measure, reflecting the Companys objective of are determinable on one years notice by the Company and providing shareholders with real growth of their investment on six months notice by the Director.
over the medium to long term rather than benchmarking Alan Hardens and Janet Popes contracts contain express against the performance of other investment trusts.
mitigation provisions should their contract be terminated.
The Committee considers that the remuneration structure David Deards has acknowledged in writing that he has a should be based on the following propositions: duty to mitigate loss in the event of early termination and A significant portion of senior employees including Executive the Remuneration Committee has a responsibility to take into account this duty before deciding upon compensation Directors remuneration should be dependent on the performance of the Company and, or a subsidiary of the should there be any such early termination.
Company such as Alliance Trust Savings.
The normal retirement age of Executive Directors has been increased to 65 as a consequence of Age Discrimination Performance should be measured over rolling three year periods and long term incentive plans should be structured legislation that came into force on 1st October 2006.
Prior to that date the normal retirement age was 60. accordingly.
Entitlement to private health care which extends to any While total shareholder return remains the most relevant measure being transparent and reflecting both capital spouse and any unmarried child under 25. appreciation and dividends it should be measured on an Participation on the same terms as all staff in an All absolute basis.
This more closely reflects the Companys Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP subject to the investment philosophy, actual returns to shareholders and statutory maximum value of Free Shares of 3,000 in any real returns.
The Committee has approved the following as representing Insurance for personal travel for the Executive Director the key elements of its policy: excluding Janet Pope and their immediate family.
Variable pay will form a significant proportion of the total Pension benefits described in more detail below.
package: Death benefits through pension plans of four times basic Base salaries will be set at no more than the market median salary.
for jobs of a similar size and complexity: Participation in the discretionary annual bonus and long The total direct compensation opportunity base salary plus term incentive plan.
annual and long-term incentives will reflect the Company The contracts of the Executive Directors do not include any performance, with the goal of being upper quartile for provision whereby the termination of their employment upper quartile performance: renders them entitled to a payment under the discretionary Benefits will be no more than median: bonus plans in which they may participate.
Differential pension benefits will be taken into As noted at page 33, Mrs Garrett-Cox will become an consideration in setting the total remuneration package.
Executive Director of the Company on 1 May 2007.
The proposed new incentive plan, which will be put to In connection with this appointment and at the shareholders at the 2007 AGM, has been formulated recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, the following consultation with major shareholders, the Company will make awards to Mrs Garrett-Cox under an Association of British Insurers and the National Association of incentive plan based on the Senior Management Equity Pension Funds.
There are two components to the Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 45 initial awards.
First, an award of 255,000 equivalent to Mrs each years service.
Since April 2006, when legislation Garrett-Coxs initial annual salary on joining Alliance Trust, to permitted more flexible pension arrangements and for pension which she became entitled at the time of announcement of contributions to be based on total salary, Alan Harden has, in her appointment and second, an award of 700,000 when she addition to membership of the defined benefit plan, also been starts work in May.
entitled to a defined contribution pension arrangement for that element of salary above the cap.
The Companys Both awards are gross, and therefore subject to income tax contribution in this case is 10% of the base salary above the and NI.
cap plus a matching contribution of up to 7% of salary above Under the terms of the SMEIP the Remuneration Committee the cap where the Director also contributes up to 7%.
has the discretion to require that one half of any award paid is David Deards is also a member of the Companys defined used to purchase shares in the Company.
Furthermore, benefit plan and has the same pension benefit entitlement as participants are given the opportunity to apply some, or all, of Alan Harden save that from April 2004 his accrual rate their remaining award to purchase further shares.
Purchased changed from 1 60th to 1 40th for each years service.
shares are held in trust for a period of three years, and qualify for matching awards of up to two times the initial award, Sheila Ruckley and Alan Young were both members of the grossed up for tax, subject to certain performance conditions.
Companys defined benefit plan but were not subject to the cap, therefore their pension entitlement was based on actual In connection with these awards, the Remuneration salary.
Sheila Ruckley accrued benefits at the rate of 1 60th per Committee has exercised its discretion and Mrs Garrett-Cox year which is the normal accrual rate for the scheme.
Alan has indicated a willingness to apply all of the second award to Young accrued service in the Scheme until 5 April 2006 after the purchase of further shares.
As a result, she will have which no further accrual for service was given.
In the ten years invested over three times her annual salary in Alliance Trust prior to Alan Youngs retiral his service was enhanced by six shares at or shortly after the time she joins the Company.
months for every twelve months service during that period.
He was also credited with 5 years service in 1988 comprising Directors pension benefits two years and one month from a transfer from a previous Alan Harden is a member of the Companys defined benefit employer and two years 11 months being a discretionary plan which provides benefits based on his basic salary increase.
Neither Alan Young nor Sheila Ruckley received excluding any bonuses or other benefits in the 12 months contributions to a defined contribution pension arrangement.
before his retiral, capped at what was the HRMC statutory In addition to a members pension the defined benefit plan level which has also been adopted as a Scheme specific cap provides for a spouses pension should the member die before the cap and which will continue to restrict in 2007 and or after retirement.
A pension is also payable to children future years the level of benefits that can be received from this minors or under 21 in full time education of the member if Scheme.
The accrual rate used for Alan Harden is 1 30th for death occurs prior to retirement.
Salary and benefits Executive Date of Salary Taxable AESOP Share Annual Other Total Total Director Contract 2007 Benefits Incentive Plan Bonus Pay 2007 2006 Alan Harden 15 October 2003 261,772 1,559 1,854 59,590 324,775 258,204 David Deards 22 November 2002 141,459 869 1,854 30,414 174,596 132,579 Janet Pope 27 October 2006 55,000 27,500 9,350 91,850 Sheila Ruckley 31 January 2001 123,667 949 1,854 31,281 157,751 119,623 Alan Young 6 November 1987 91,070 296 1,854 93,220 168,180 Notes 1 Sheila Ruckley ceased to be a Director on 31 July 2006 but remained an employee of the Company for the remainder of the financial year during which period she received salary of 70,000 and taxable benefits of 474.
Both of these sums are included in the table above.
2 During the period 1 February to 30 June 2006 the Directors also received remuneration from the Second Alliance Trust.
The salary received from the Second Alliance Trust in that period, with salary for the year ending 31 January 2006 in brackets, is for Alan Harden 29,896 67,917, David Deards 16,042 35,835, Sheila Ruckley 14,000 31,250 and Alan Young 18,816 44,250.
In the same periods bonuses from the Second Alliance Trust were paid as follows: Alan Harden 17,604 16,458, David Deards 9,375 8,698, Sheila Ruckley 8,167 7,650 and Alan Young 11,211 10,755.
3 Prior to her appointment as a Director in November 2006 Janet Pope received fees as a consultant to the Company of 135,482.
The payment under Other Pay was made after the end of the financial year but in respect of her salary during the year and is explained in the Directors Pension Benefit section.
4 Alan Young retired on 9 September 2006.
5 The amount of Annual Bonus paid to Janet Pope was contractual in this, her first, financial year and will be subject to performance conditions in future years.
46 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Janet Pope is not a member of the defined benefit plan nor 2007, the maximum award payable to any Executive Director of a defined contribution plan but is entitled to receive an under this arrangement was set at 50% of their salary.
Actual equivalent amount in lieu of such plans.
She receives 10% of awards made to Executive Directors other than Janet Pope salary excluding any bonuses or other benefits and is also where the amount was contractual ranged from 21.25% to entitled to receive a matching amount of up to 7% of salary 25% of salary.
where she purchases Alliance Trust PLC shares.
Ms Pope For the year ended 31 January 2007, the parameters used to received 9,350 in respect of this financial year under this determine the actual amount of bonus paid to the Executive element of her remuneration package which was paid after Directors included a combination of individual and corporate the conclusion of the financial year.
The amount of the Executive Directors Details of the Executive Directors pension entitlements bonus that related to overall Company performance was Non-Executive Directors receive no pension benefits are determined by reference to the Companys total shareholder given below.
return TSR performance for the year relative to the peer group identified as the most relevant when the plan was Base Salary structured in 2004 5.
The comparator group may be subject to change by the Remuneration Committee to ensure that Salaries will be targeted at the market median and increases performance is measured against an appropriate benchmark will be made to bring them closer to this position.
However it reflective of the Companys activities.
Below median is not proposed to simply move respective salaries straight to performance of the Company against the comparator group the market median.
A more measured approach will be taken results in no Company performance element being paid.
which allows the Remuneration Committee to ensure that The Company performance element of the Annual Bonus performance within the roles is at the level required to justify comprises 50% of the maximum bonus with the other 50% the increases.
The base salaries which apply from 1 February being determined by business unit or individual targets.
2007 are: Using these measures, for the year ended 31 January 2007 no Position Salary amount was payable under the Company performance element.
Chief Executive 350,000 From 1 February 2007 onwards the maximum annual bonus Finance Director 190,000 which may be earned by Executive Directors will be increased Chief Executive Alliance Trust Savings 230,000 to 100% of salary.
The bonus target will continue to reflect both overall corporate performance and also specific business Annual Bonus unit or functional responsibilities.
However, the performance The Company operates a variety of annual bonus schemes in targets attaching to the scheme will be modified such that the which around 60% of employees participate and where maximum can only be achieved for a higher level of individuals can become eligible for a payment based on performance.
achievement of specific business and personal targets.
For the year to 31 January 2008, the following weightings will Selected employees, including the Executive Directors, be used for the annual bonus: participate in such a scheme.
The above table relates to the total pension entitlement of the Directors combining payments and benefits due or secured by the Company and the Second Alliance Trust and any subsidiary.
The prior year comparative figure has been adjusted to the same basis.
The level of increase in transfer values is partly due to the different calculation basis of transfer values for all members adopted by the Trustees of the pension scheme in 2006 on the advice of the Scheme Actuary Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 47 Chief Finance Chief to purchase shares in the Company, subject to the requirement Executive Director Executive ATS that at least 50% of the bonus must be applied in this way.
Any such acquisitions which are made after tax and other Corporate 50% 50% 25% deductions are carried out by the trustee of the Companys Business Unit 25% 25% 50% Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee on the relevant Individual 25% 25% 25% participants behalf.
Shares acquired in this way are referred The corporate performance will be based on total return per to as Deposited Shares for the purposes of the SMEIP.
The Business Unit performance will reflect performance A SMEIP participant becomes the beneficial owner of the of the financial services and asset management businesses Deposited Shares at the time they are acquired on their In addition to the challenging performance targets, half of behalf, but legal title is held by the Trustee in a nominee any bonus earned will continue to be deferred automatically capacity throughout a holding period, which generally ends into shares for a period of three years with the potential to on the third anniversary of their initial acquisition.
In 2006, receive a matching award based on TSR performance.
The the Directors each invested to the maximum of 100% of their Remuneration Committee will review the measures each year annual bonus in Deposited Shares.
to ensure that they remain appropriate and challenging.
Matching Awards Senior Management Equity Incentive Plan the SMEIP When Deposited Shares are purchased on a participants At the 2005 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved behalf, the Company grants a conditional award of further the introduction of the Senior Management Equity Incentive shares a Matching Award which vests on the third Plan the SMEIP.
Under this arrangement, selected anniversary of grant but only if, and to the extent that, individuals, including the Executive Directors but not the stretching performance targets are achieved over a specified Non-Executive Directors, are eligible to participate.
Matching Awards are structured as nil-cost options Participants must apply some or all of their annual bonus in and do not confer any shareholder rights until they vest.
acquiring shares in the Company: awards are then granted The total number of shares over which a participants over further shares that generally vest after three years, but Matching Award is initially granted is calculated by taking the only if, and to the extent that, various conditions have been market value of the Deposited Shares purchased on their met.
The key features of the SMEIP and the policies associated behalf grossed up by the appropriate marginal rates of with its operation are summarised below: income tax and NIC, multiplying that figure by a pre-set ratio determined by the Remuneration Committee which Deposited Shares cannot exceed two and dividing that amount by the market Where an individual participates in the SMEIP in respect of value of the Companys shares as at the date of grant.
any financial year, he or she is invited to specify the proportion The ratio in the case of each of the Directors is two.
World Trust Fund Jupiter Primadona Growth Trust PLC 48 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations A SMEIP participants Matching Award will lapse if and to the group of similar companies operating in a similarly extent that they sell their corresponding Deposited Shares competitive environment as the Company at the time the Plan before the end of the applicable holding period.
Matching Awards will generally lapse if the participant leaves The right to matching shares is by way of nil price options the Company before they have vested.
However, the Company granted to the participant with the right expiring after a has the discretion to allow the Matching Awards to be period of three months from the date that the award first retained until the end of the performance period and during becomes exercisable.
the financial year this discretion was exercised in respect of For 2007 and future years, it is proposed that the SMEIP will Sheila Ruckley who retired as a Director of the company in be replaced by one element of the new long term incentive July 2006.
Alan Young, who retired at his normal retirement plan which will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming date in September 2006, was entitled under the terms of the AGM.
This element of the new arrangement details of which plan to retain his Matching Awards.
are set out in the Chairman's letter accompanying the AGM notice will be broadly similar to the SMEIP except that the Performance conditions performance condition attaching to matching awards will be The performance conditions attaching to Matching Awards based on the Company's absolute TSR performance as shown and the period over which they are measured are set by the in the table below.
To date, all Matching Awards granted under the SMEIP to Executive Directors of the Per annum compound growth % of award vesting Company have been subject to a Total Shareholder Return Less than RPI 3% 0% TSR target which compares the TSR of a share in the RPI 3% 25% Company, over a period of three consecutive financial years, Equal to or more than RPI 10% 100% with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator If the new long term incentive plan is approved by shareholders, group comprised of other investment trusts.
The Companys no further awards will be made under the SMEIP, although position within the comparator group will determine the existing awards under that arrangement will be unaffected.
extent to which the Matching Award will vest: if it is at median, 50% of the award will vest: if it is between median The Second Alliance Trust PLC Senior Management and upper quartile, there will be vesting of between 50% and Equity Incentive Plan 2AT SMEIP replacement 100% on a straight line basis: if it is at or above the upper awards quartile, the full 100% of the Matching Award will vest and if Prior to the merger of the Company and the Second Alliance it is below median there will be no vesting.
To the extent that Trust PLC 2AT the Merger, each of the Companys a Matching Award has not vested at the end of the Executive Directors participated in the 2AT SMEIP.
Under this performance period, it will lapse.
arrangement which was structured, in all material respects, in The Matching Award made in June 2005 has been adjusted to the same way as the Companys SMEIP and which was approved reflect that the award now applies to 2.5p Ordinary shares.
by the shareholders of 2AT at their AGM in 2004, participants The above TSR performance condition was designed to were invited to apply some or all of their 2AT annual bonuses provide alignment between Executive Director remuneration in the acquisition of shares in 2AT 2AT Deposited Shares and shareholder interests.
The comparator group was selected and were granted matching awards 2AT Matching Awards to ensure that performance was compared fairly against a over additional 2AT shares, the vesting of which was SMEIP MATCHING AWARDS SMEIP MATCHING AWARDS MADE IN THE CURRENT YEAR MADE IN PREVIOUS YEAR Date of Date Matching Date of Date Matching Name Grant Exercisable Award Grant Exercisable Award Alan Harden 21 April 2006 21 July 2009 26,740 9 June 2005 9 June 2008 16,940 David Deards 21 April 2006 21 July 2009 11,960 9 June 2005 9 June 2008 8,940 Sheila Ruckley 21 April 2006 21 July 2009 12,300 9 June 2005 9 June 2008 7,960 Alan Young 9 June 2005 9 June 2008 10,160 The market prices of the Company's ordinary shares adjusted on 9 June 2005 and 21 April 2006 were 279.7p and 380.4p respectively.
As detailed above, the performance criteria that must be met before the above awards vest requires the Company's Total Shareholder Return over a period of three consecutive financial years to outperform a comparator group comprised of other investment trusts.
Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 49 dependent, amongst other things, on the satisfaction of which is an HM Revenue & Customs approved arrangement, specified performance conditions.
In the case of the Executive currently has the following elements: Directors, these performance conditions related to the relative The Partnership Share element under which employees TSR performance of 2AT over a period of three financial years.
may make regular purchases of shares from pre-tax income With effect from the effective date of the Merger 21 June up to a limit of 1,500 per tax year : 2006, the Companys Executive Directors along with all other The Free Share element in terms of which all eligible participants in the 2AT SMEIP surrendered their 2AT Matching employees receive up to 3,000 worth of shares in each year Awards in exchange for the grant of equivalent rights over depending upon the extent to which certain performance shares in the Company the Replacement Matching Awards.
targets have been satisfied: and These Replacement Matching Awards, which were granted on The Dividend Share element under which dividends paid 23 June 2006, are subject to the same terms and conditions that on shares held in the AESOP are used to buy further shares applied to the 2AT Matching Awards they replaced.
In particular, in the Company.
they will generally vest on the third anniversary of the date on which the original 2AT Matching Awards were granted but only Directors shareholding if and to the extent that the original performance conditions Details of the holdings of all the Directors are shown in the appropriately amended to reflect the Merger have been tables on the next page.
satisfied over the original performance period.
Each Director may have other shares in which he or she is Replacement Matching Awards will generally lapse if the beneficially interested.
These can include shares held by their participant leaves the Company before they have vested.
spouses, children and any other connected persons.
However, the Company has the discretion to allow the The Company has not granted any options to subscribe for Matching Awards to be retained and during the financial year its shares.
this discretion was exercised in respect of Sheila Ruckley who retired as a Director of the Company in July 2006.
Alan Young Company Performance Graph retiring at his normal retirement date in September 2006 was allowed under the terms of the plan to retain his Matching We are required by law to show a graph of the performance Awards.
These Awards will also lapse if, before the expiry of of the Company over a five year period compared to a broad the original holding period, the participant sells the shares in equity market index notwithstanding that the Company the Company that they acquired under the Merger in respect invests across a wide range of investment classes.
The graph of his 2AT Deposited Shares: these shares are currently held on the next page compares the total shareholder return on on the participants behalf by the trustee of the Companys the Companys ordinary shares to the FTSE All-Share Index Employee Benefit Trust.
which the Company believes is the most relevant index as the largest single portfolio of the Company is UK listed equities.
The right to matching shares is by way of nil price options by It should be noted that the Company does not seek to track the participant with the right expiring after a period of three the FTSE All-Share Index and it is not used as a benchmark for months from the date that the award is exercisable.
Company performance nor for remuneration purposes.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the All Employee Share Ownership Plan value of investments may fall as well as rise.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan the AESOP on the same terms as other members of staff.
The AESOP, Replacement Matching Awards Name Date of Original Grant Date Exercisable Replacement Matching Award Alan Harden 6 October 2005 6 October 2008 10,398 David Deards 6 October 2005 6 October 2008 5,483 Sheila Ruckley 6 October 2005 6 October 2008 4,827 Alan Young 6 October 2005 6 October 2008 6,786 The market prices of the Company's ordinary shares adjusted on 6 October 2005 was 303.1p.
As detailed on page 48, the performance criteria that must be met before the above awards vest requires the Company's Total Shareholder Return over a period of three consecutive financial years to outperform a comparator group comprised of other investment trusts.
50 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations TSR Performance Index 160 140 120 100 80 60 31 Jan 02 31 Jan 03 31 Jan 04 31 Jan 05 31 Jan 06 31 Jan 07 Source: Datastream FTSE All Share - Tot Return Ind Alliance Trust - Tot Return Ind The Directors remuneration report has been approved by the Audit Statement Board and signed on its behalf by The tables at the botttom of pages 43, 45 and 46 together with the related footnotes have been audited by the Christopher Masters, Chairman Remuneration Committee Companys auditors whose report is on page 51.
23 April 2007 Directors Interests All interests are beneficial Ordinary shares of 2.5p As at 1 February 2006 As at 31 January 2007 or date Acquired between 31 January 2007 1 Name or date of appointment if later of retiral as a director if earlier and 18 April 2007 Lesley Knox 21,750 97,791 767 Alan Harden 15,240 52,044 4,455 David Deards 18,090 47,729 594 William Jack 10,000 18,745 Christopher Masters 5,250 10,386 32 Gordon McQueen 2,000 3,749 Sheila Ruckley 26,340 60,863 Clare Salmon 2,000 3,749 Alan Young 34,790 52,804 Janet Pope 5,773 279 these interests have been restated to reflect the conversion of 25p ordinary shares into 2.5p ordinary shares on 21 June 2006 but do not include any holdings in the Second Alliance Trust that the Director may have held as at that date.
Notes 1 Acquisitions of shares after 31 January 2007 have been pursuant only to standing instructions through plans provided by Alliance Trust Savings and through the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
2 Details of Directors rights to acquire existing ordinary shares pursuant to i matching awards granted under the Companys Senior Management Equity Incentive Plan SMEIP : and ii replacement matching awards granted following completion of the merger with the Second Alliance Trust are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 49.
3 In the case of the Executive Directors, the figures shown in the above table include deposited shares purchased on the relevant Directors behalf pursuant to the SMEIP.
These ordinary shares which are beneficially owned by the Director in question are currently held by the trustee of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust in a nominee capacity.
The trustee also holds further ordinary shares on behalf of the Executive Directors which relate to the replacement matching awards described in note 2 above.
Again, these shares are beneficially owned by the relevant Directors and have been included in the above table.
Further information in relation to the SMEIP and the replacement matching awards are set out on page 49.
4 As at 31 January 2007, the trustee of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust held 162,939 unappropriated ordinary shares for the benefit of the Company.
Under paragraph 2 of Schedule 13 to the Companies Act 1985 the Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in these shares.
