28 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Directors Remuneration Report Introduction a contract of service or a contract for services and a director The Directors Remuneration Report the Report is prepared may resign by notice in writing to the Board at any time: there in accordance with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 are no set notice periods.
The Companys policy is for the the Act in respect of the year ended 31 October 2007.
An directors to be remunerated in the form of fees, payable ordinary resolution to approve the Report will be put to the quarterly in arrears, to the director personally or to a third Annual General Meeting on 27 February 2008.
The Act party specified by him.
There are no long-term incentive requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on schemes provided by the Company and the fees are not certain parts of the Report and to state whether in their specifically related to the directors performance, either opinion those parts of the Report have been properly individually or collectively.
prepared in accordance with the Act.
Therefore the Report has The Companys policy is that the fees payable to the directors been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited should reflect the time spent by the Board on the Companys information.
affairs and the responsibilities borne by the directors and should be sufficient to enable candidates of high calibre to be UNAUDITED INFORMATION recruited.
The policy is for the Chairman of the Board, the Consideration by the Directors of Matters Relating to Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of the Audit Directors Remuneration Committee to be paid a higher fee than the other directors in The Board as a whole considers the directors remuneration.
recognition of their more onerous roles.
The Board has not appointed a committee to consider matters relating to the directors remuneration.
The Board has not The Companys Articles of Association limit the fees payable been provided with advice or services by any person in respect to the directors in aggregate to 150,000 per annum.
In the of its consideration of the directors remuneration although year under review the directors fees were paid at the the directors regularly review the fees paid to the boards of following annual rates from 1 March 2007, the previous rate directors of other investment trust companies.
is shown in brackets: Statement of the Companys Policy on Directors The Chairman 30,000 28,000 : the Chairman of the Audit Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director 21,000 The Board consists entirely of six non-executive directors who 20,000 and the other directors 19,000 18,000 each.
meet at least eight times a year to deal with the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
New directors are appointed The policy is to review these rates annually, although such with the expectation that they will serve for a period of three review will not necessarily result in any change to the rates.
years and receive a letter of appointment.
Directors Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the appointments are reviewed formally every three years Company in respect of the directors.
thereafter by the Board as a whole.
None of the directors has
