Corporate governance Corporate governance report Board Effectiveness Group Chairmans Induction Performance Review Since joining the Barclays Board in September 2006 and becoming An annual evaluation of Board and Committee effectiveness is conducted, Group Chairman in January 2007, I have been involved in a wideas recommended by the Code.
The evaluation in 2006 was independently ranging programme of meetings and familiarisation visits to help facilitated by Egon Zehnder International and comprised a questionnaire, me get to know Barclays, our colleagues and customers.
supplemented by individual interviews and peer reviews.
The following actions were set for 2007: The programme began in 2006, when I met with each member of the Executive Committee and senior management across each of the provision of additional training on risk issues for non-executive Directors, business areas and head office functions of Barclays.
To broaden my including specific awareness of risk management and measurement understanding of the Barclays businesses, I have this year visited Retail methodologies for Board Risk Committee members: and Banking branches in the UK and Africa, Barclays Commercial Bank continued work on Board meeting agenda management to ensure services in Stratford and Gadbrook Park, Barclaycard in Northampton, there is time for rigorous debate and exchange of ideas.
Barclays Capital in New York, Barclays Global Investors in San Francisco, Barclays France, Barclays Spain and the Barclays operations in Tokyo Training on risk issues was provided in April 2007 and feedback sought and Singapore.
The time allocated to Board meetings has been increased to allow for extended debate and discussion.
The Board As well as the induction meetings with senior management, I have met Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee monitored the with shareholders and analysts and other stakeholders to gauge their progress of the action plan during 2007 and are satisfied with the steps views of Barclays and assess market opinion.
taken to tackle the issues highlighted by the evaluation.
I am also Chairman of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations The 2007 evaluation was again independently facilitated by Egon Zehnder Committee, a member of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee International.
The evaluation took the form of detailed questionnaires and I have attended meetings of both the Board Audit and Board Risk completed by each Director, individual interviews and peer evaluation of Committees during the year to observe at first hand how these fellow Directors.
The results of the evaluation were presented to the Board Committees operate and the key issues they examine.
in February 2008 and continued to demonstrate the improving trend Marcus Agius since the current process of evaluation was adopted in 2004.
The Board concluded that the Board and the principal Board Committees continue to operate effectively.
Minor enhancements were recommended around: Barclays businesses and operations the form and content of Board papers and presentations: and During 2007, two off-site Board meetings were held.
In March, the Board met at the New York offices of Barclays Capital, where Directors were given refinement to the Board calendar of business, particularly in respect of a tour of the site, including the trading floor, and had the opportunity to the timing and content of presentations on stakeholder management.
meet with staff, senior management and major clients.
In September, the Board met at the London office of Barclays Wealth.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee will recommend an action plan to the Board to deliver these improvements National Branch Week was held in September, where over 300 senior in 2008. executives from the Group went back to the floor to find out what successes and challenges employees in the branches are facing at the The Group Chairman will hold private meetings with each Director to sharp end of the business.
A number of Directors participated and worked discuss the results and to agree areas for development relating to their own alongside cashiers, personal bankers and co-ordinators for the day.
Feedback on the Group Chairmans performance keep them informed of issues relevant to front line employees and up to was provided to the Senior Independent Director, who discussed the date with news around the Group, Directors receive copies of The Globe, results privately with the other non-executive Directors and the Group the magazine for employees.
Chief Executive before meeting with the Group Chairman.
External matters Directors are regularly briefed on market opinion and receive copies Training and Business Awareness of analyst research and press commentary.
Attendance at results A three part training programme is in place for Directors.
This comprises: presentations, analyst rehearsals and corporate governance receptions induction training, when they join the Board: enables Directors to meet with analysts and investors to enhance their awareness of market sentiment and the views of major shareholders.
training and awareness of the business of Barclays: and External speakers were invited to brief the Board in 2007 on the global training and awareness of external technical matters.
All Directors were made aware in 2007 of their Induction responsibilities under the FSAs Prospectus Rules in connection with the All new Directors receive an information pack that explains those disclosures proposed merger with ABN AMRO.
A number of briefings were given to they are obliged to make to the Company to comply with various laws the Board on the changes being introduced by the Companies Act 2006 and regulations.
A presentation is given to all new Directors, which outlines and, in particular, the new statutory statement of Directors Duties, to their responsibilities as a Director of a global, listed company and provides ensure that Directors are aware of their responsibilities.
Guidance was an overview of the Group and its businesses.
Each new Director then has provided to management and to the Board on the desired content of a tailored induction programme to further familiarise themselves with supporting Board and Committee papers, to ensure that Directors are the Group and its businesses.
This takes the form of sessions with each provided with sufficient information to allow them to have regard to of the executive Directors and the heads of the main Group functions amongst others the stakeholders of the Group and the long term and includes opportunities to visit operational sites to meet with senior consequences of any decisions they make.
Once they have completed the first part of their induction, and have a good overview of the Group, they then have further sessions with the executive Directors and senior managers from each of the principal business units to gain a detailed and in depth understanding of their business, which includes the challenges, opportunities and risks that are faced by each.
Marcus Agius and David Booth undertook their induction training in 2007.
A report on the Group Chairmans induction programme is set out in the panel above.
142 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance Statement on US Corporate Governance Standards Relations with Shareholders The statement required by NYSE is set out below.
Institutional investors The Boards priorities include communicating with shareholders, to keep Director independence them well informed about the Companys prospects and strategy, and Under the NYSE Rules the majority of the Board should be independent.
staying abreast of the views of major shareholders.
To achieve this, Under the Code, at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman is executive Directors and senior executives hold group and one to one required to be independent.
The NYSE Rules contain detailed tests for meetings with major investors.
Analyst research notes are distributed to determining Director independence, whereas the Code requires the Board Directors and our corporate brokers provide annual feedback to the Board.
to determine whether each Director is independent in character and The Investor Relations team organise roadshows, seminars, conferences, judgement and sets out criteria that may be relevant to that determination.
presentations and other activities that enable the Directors to interact with We follow the Codes recommendations as well as developing best investors.
Prior to each AGM, the Group Chairman, Senior Independent practices among other UK public companies.
Our Board annually reviews Director and Company Secretary have a series of meetings with the the independence of our non-executive Directors, taking into account the corporate governance representatives of our major institutional shareholders.
guidance in the Code and the criteria we have established for determining independence, which are described on page 136.
Private shareholders A change in the law now allows us to communicate electronically with 2 Board Committees our shareholders, unless they advise us that they prefer to receive paper.
We have a Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and We have given shareholders a choice of how to receive shareholder a Board HR and Remuneration rather than Compensation Committee, communications going forward and those that receive documents both of which are broadly comparable in purpose and constitution to electronically will have access to shareholder documents as soon as they those required by the NYSE Rules and whose terms of reference comply are published.
These new arrangements will enable us to use less paper, with the Codes requirements.
Beyond the fact that the Board Corporate which benefits the environment and lowers distribution costs for the Governance and Nominations Committee is chaired by the Chairman Group.
This year we will continue to post the Annual Review, Notice of of the Board and that the Chairman is a member of the Board HR and Shareholder Meetings and proxy forms to all shareholders.
Remuneration Committee, both of which are permitted by the Code, both Committees are composed solely of non-executive Directors whom We encourage shareholders to hold their shares in Barclays Sharestore, the Board has determined to be independent.
We follow the Code where shares are held electronically in a cost-effective environment.
recommendation that a majority of the Nominations Committee should Our e-view service enables shareholders to receive their shareholder be independent non-executive Directors, whereas the NYSE Rules state documents electronically.
It also gives shareholders immediate access to that the Committee must be composed entirely of independent Directors.
information relating to their personal shareholding and dividend history.
We comply with the NYSE Rules regarding the obligation to have a Board Participants can also change their details and dividend mandates online Audit Committee that meets the requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the and receive dividend tax vouchers electronically.
US Securities Exchange Act, including the requirements relating to the Shareholder Meetings independence of Committee members.
In April 2007, we made an Annual The 2007 AGM was held on 26th April 2007 at the Queen Elizabeth II Written Affirmation of our compliance with these requirements to the NYSE.
In accordance with best practice, all The Code also requires us to have a Board Audit Committee comprised resolutions were considered on a poll and the results were made available solely of independent non-executive Directors.
We follow the Code on our website the same day.
54 percent of the shares in issue were voted recommendations, rather than the NYSE Rules, however, regarding the and all resolutions were approved.
All Directors are encouraged to attend responsibilities of the Board Audit Committee, although both are broadly the AGM and are available to answer shareholder questions.
We also have a Board Risk Committee, comprised of attended the 2007 AGM, with the exception of Leigh Clifford, who, as independent non-executive Directors, which considers and discusses Chief Executive of Rio Tinto, was attending that companys AGM and policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management.
Board meeting in Australia on that day.
Corporate Governance Guidelines An extraordinary general meeting EGM was held on 14th September 2007, The NYSE Rules require domestic US companies to adopt and disclose at our head office in London, where shareholders were asked to approve corporate governance guidelines.
There is no equivalent recommendation resolutions in connection with the proposed merger with ABN AMRO.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations 58 percent of the shares in issue were voted on a poll and all resolutions Committee has, however, developed corporate governance guidelines, were approved.
The Group Chairman, Senior Independent Director entitled Corporate Governance in Barclays, which have been approved and a majority of the executive Directors attended the EGM.
The EGM and adopted by the Board.
was followed by a Class Meeting of ordinary shareholders, at which Code of Ethics 57 percent of the ordinary shares in issue were voted on a poll and the The NYSE Rules require that domestic US companies adopt and disclose a resolution was approved.
code of business conduct and ethics for Directors, officers and employees.
The 2008 AGM will be held on 24th April 2008 at the Queen Elizabeth II Rather than a single consolidated code as envisaged in the NYSE Rules, Conference Centre in London.
The AGM will be followed by a Class Meeting we have a number of values based business conduct and ethics policies, of ordinary shareholders.
The Notice of Shareholder Meetings is enclosed which apply to all employees.
In addition, we have adopted a Code of Ethics with this Annual Report as a separate document.
The resolutions will be for the Group Chief Executive and senior financial officers as required by considered on a poll and the results will be available on our website on the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans Signed on behalf of the Board The NYSE listing standards require that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material revisions to those plans.
We comply with UK requirements, which are similar to the NYSE standards.
The Board, however, does not explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of what are considered material revisions.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman 7th March 2008 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 143 Corporate governance Remuneration report The Committee aims to achieve this by: Statement from the Chairman of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee the Committee ensuring there are appropriate succession and talent management The Committee provides governance and strategic oversight of plans in place: remuneration, Barclays Human Resource activities and senior providing oversight of Group level policy on HR matters including those management development.
The Committees terms of reference are related to the mobility of employees within the Group: and available in the Corporate Governance section of the Barclays Investor Relations website www.
monitoring health and safety and equality and diversity issues across the Group.
The Committee meets a minimum of four times a year.
Marcus Agius became a member of the Committee on 1st January 2007.
Marcus Agius Barclays employee remuneration is performance based.
Important context was considered independent for the purposes of the Combined Code to this report and the disclosures that follow is provided below: on his appointment as Chairman of the Board.
All other Committee Group profit before tax was 7.1bn, broadly in line with the prior year: members are independent non-executive Directors.
Group profit before business disposals increased by 3%: and The Committees objective in relation to remuneration is to ensure that it incentivises excellence in business and personal performance and enables careful management of performance related remuneration has resulted the Group to attract and retain employees of ability and experience.
in a reduction in key remuneration ratios relative to 2006, including the absorption of 2007 headcount investment.
The Committee aims to achieve this by: The Committee takes seriously its commitment to clear and comprehensive ensuring clear and quantified individual and Group performance goals disclosure.
This report details the remuneration of the individual Directors are in place supported by rigorous performance appraisal systems: who served Barclays in 2007.
Barclays Remuneration Policy remains creating externally benchmarked remuneration frameworks for each unchanged, including the commitment to transparency and to policies major business that provide an evidence based approach to decisions: and programmes that serve well the interests of shareholders.
reviewing past remuneration decisions against objectives: and The Committee unanimously recommends that you vote to approve the report at the 2008 AGM.
approving the specific remuneration packages of executive Directors and other senior executives.
Signed on behalf of the Board The Committees work is supported by independent professional advice from Kepler Associates, who were re-appointed in 2007, and Towers Perrin MGMC who were appointed in 2007.
In relation to HR and senior management development, the Committees objective is to ensure that the Groups people resources are managed to maximise business performance, support the long-term success and growth of the business and protect the welfare of all employees.
Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman, Board HR and Remuneration Committee 7th March 2008 144 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance Board HR and Remuneration Committee Members Remuneration Policy During 2007, the Committee comprised both independent non-executive Barclays policy is to use remuneration to drive a high-performance culture.
Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
Membership of the Committee Executive Directors can expect outstanding remuneration if performance was as follows: is outstanding and below median remuneration for below median performance.
This philosophy applies to remuneration policies and practices for all employees in the Group.
The Committee considers Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman Marcus Agius remuneration levels across the Group when determining remuneration for executive Directors.
Leigh Clifford Sir John Sunderland The aims of the Barclays Remuneration Policy are to: incentivise excellence in and balance between both short-term The non-executive Directors who were Committee members were one year and longer-term three years plus performance such that considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from Group financial goals and the goal of achieving top quartile total any business or other relationship that could materially affect the exercise shareholder return TSR are met and sustained: of their independent judgement.
The constitution and operation of the enable the Group to attract and retain people of proven ability, Committee complies with the Provisions on the Design of Performance 2 experience and skills in the pools in which it competes for talent: Related Remuneration in the Combined Code adopted by the Financial Reporting Council.
b encourage behaviour consistent with Barclays Guiding Principles which leads to excellence and the appropriate balance in financial Marcus Agius was appointed as a member of the Committee with effect performance, governance, controls, risk management, customer from 1st January 2007. service, people management, brand and reputation management: The Chairman of the Committee presents a report of each meeting to the promote attention to maximising personal contribution, contribution to full Board.
the business in which the individual works and contribution to the Advisers to the Committee Group overall: and The Committee has access to independent consultants to ensure that it ensure, both internally and externally, that remuneration policies and receives independent advice.
Advisers are appointed by the Committee for programmes are transparent, well communicated, easily understood specific work, as necessary, and are required to disclose to the Committee and aligned with the interests of shareholders.
any potential conflict of interest.
a The graph below shows the value, at 31st December 2007, of 100 In 2007, Kepler Associates were re-appointed by the Committee to provide invested in Barclays on 31st December 2002 compared with the value independent advice to Committee members on remuneration matters.
a of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points plotted are the Towers Perrin MGMC were appointed to provide advice to the values at intervening financial year ends.
The FTSE 100 Index is the index Committee in 2007, primarily in relation to the provision of remuneration of the 100 largest UK quoted companies by market capitalisation.
It is a for employees below Board level and in the global financial services widely recognised performance comparison for large UK companies such industry.
as Barclays and this is why it has been chosen as a comparator to illustrate The Group Chief Executive, the Human Resources Director and, as Barclays TSR.
The graph shows that, at the end of 2007, a hypothetical necessary, members of the Executive Committee, also advise the 100 invested in Barclays on 31st December 2002 would have generated Committee, supported by their teams.
They are not permitted to a total return of 63, compared with a gain of 95 if invested in the FTSE participate in discussions or decisions relating to their own remuneration.
The Human Resources Director is responsible for providing professional Remuneration for executive Directors support to line management in HR policy and operations and for Remuneration for the executive Directors comprises: monitoring compliance with prescribed policy and programmes across Barclays.
The Human Resources Director is not a Board Director and is base salary: not appointed by the Committee.
annual bonus including mandatory deferral into Barclays shares through the Executive Share Award Scheme ESAS : long-term incentives through the Performance Share Plan PSP : and pension and other benefits.
Total Shareholder Return Barclays PLC Year ended 31st December FTSE 100 Index 226 195 181 167 181 136 163 158 100 131 118 100 Notes a Kepler Associates and Towers Perrin MGMC have given and not withdrawn their written consent to the inclusion of references to their name in the form and context in which 02 03 04 05 06 07 it appears.
Towers Perrin MGMC also provided remuneration benchmarking data to Barclays Group companies during the year.
Source: Datastream b Barclays Guiding Principles were introduced during 2005 and provide all parts of the Group with a unifying set of values.
They are: Winning Together, Best People, Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 requires that the graph shows TSR for the five years ending with the relevant financial year.
Client Customer Focused, Pioneering and Trusted.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 145 Corporate governance Remuneration report The Committee reviews the elements of remuneration relative to the policies stated in this report and to the practice of other comparable organisations.
Remuneration is benchmarked against the markets in which we compete for talent.
This includes benchmarking against other leading international banks and financial services organisations, and other companies of similar size to Barclays in the FTSE 100 Index.
The component parts for each executive Director are detailed in the tables accompanying this report.
The Committee guideline that executive Directors should hold, as a minimum, the equivalent of one times their base salary in Barclays shares, including shares held under award through ESAS, was met by all executive Directors.
Each element of remuneration is important and has a specific role in achieving the aims of the remuneration policy.
The combined potential remuneration from bonus and PSP outweighs the other elements, and is subject to personal and Group performance, thereby placing the majority of total remuneration at risk.
Of the key elements of remuneration salary, annual performance bonus, ESAS and PSP, salary made up a maximum of 30% of the 2007 remuneration for executive Directors and 1.4% in respect of Robert E Diamond Jrs arrangements, which reflects general practice in the investment banking and investment management industry.
The remaining proportion of the key compensation elements for executive Directors is at risk.
The relative weighting summarised in this paragraph does not include pension and benefits.
The purpose of each element of remuneration for executive Directors is summarised in the table below and discussed in greater detail in the sections that follow.
Remuneration element Purpose Delivery Programme detail Base salary To reflect the market value of the Cash Reviewed annually, with changes typically individual and their role Monthly effective on 1st April Pensionable a Annual performance To incentivise the delivery of annual Typically 75% cash Based on annual business unit bonus and ESAS goals at the Group, business division Typically 25% performance, performance of the Group and individual levels deferred Barclays as a whole and leadership contribution shares under ESAS Annual Non-pensionable b PSP To reward the creation of above Free shares Discretionary awards median, sustained growth in subject to a Participation reviewed annually shareholder value performance Barclays performance over three years condition determines the number of performance Annual awards shares eligible for release to each individual that vest after For awards made in 2007, and awards to three years be made in 2008, EP threshold, Non-pensionable thereafter 50% under a TSR performance condition and 50% under an EP performance condition c Pension To provide market competitive Deferred cash or Non-contributory, defined benefit post-retirement benefit cash allowance scheme and or defined contribution Monthly scheme, or cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions Changes to Group Chairman and executive Directors Base Salary Marcus Agius was appointed Group Chairman with effect from The annual base salaries for the current executive Directors are shown in 1st January 2007. the table below: Date of Marcus Agius receives a fee of 750,000 inclusive of Directors fees.
He is As at As at previous also eligible for private health insurance.
The minimum time commitment 31st Dec 2007 1st April 2008 increase is equivalent to 60% of a full time role.
Marcus Agius is not eligible to participate in Barclays bonus and share incentive plans, nor will he John Varley 1,000,000 1,100,000 1st Apr 2007 participate in Barclays pension plans or receive any pension contributions.
Robert E Diamond Jr 250,000 250,000 1st Mar 1999 The letter of appointment provides for a notice period of 12 months from Gary Hoffman 625,000 625,000 1st Apr 2006 Barclays and six months from Marcus Agius.
Frits Seegers 700,000 700,000 n a Chris Lucas 600,000 650,000 n a Naguib Kheraj ceased to be an executive Director on 31st March 2007.
Naguib Kheraj was succeeded by Chris Lucas, who was appointed to the position of Group Finance Director with effect from 1st April 2007.
In respect of John Varley and Chris Lucas, having regard to the levels of The key terms of executive Directors service contracts are on page 149. salary and total compensation in comparable organisations, the Committee approved an increase to base salary effective from 1st April 2008.
Notes a Eligible executives may request that all or part of the cash bonus to which they would b Please refer to Note 44 to the accounts for further information on PSP.
otherwise become entitled, be granted in the form of an additional award under ESAS c Please refer to Note 30 to the accounts for further information on the Groups or as a pension contribution by way of Special Company Contribution Bonus Sacrifice.
For 2007 Robert E Diamond Jr received 43% of his annual bonus in cash and 57% as a recommendation for an award of Barclays shares under Mandatory ESAS.
146 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance Annual Bonus and ESAS PSP The maximum bonus opportunity for executive Directors is tailored to the The PSP was approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM and replaced the relevant market: this is typically 250% of base salary.
The annual bonus is ISOP as the main performance linked share incentive plan.
PSP awards to based on a qualitative and quantitative assessment of performance date have been granted in the form of provisional allocations of Barclays including EP and PBT results with the quantitative assessment shares which do not give a participant any right to acquire, or an interest in, comprising the majority.
EP and PBT are considered to be good measures shares until such time as the PSP trustee decides to release the shares to of value creation for shareholders.
the participant i. e. when the PSP awards vest.
Participants do not pay to receive an award or to receive a release of shares.
Performance share ESAS is a deferred share award plan which operates in conjunction with awards are communicated to participants as an initial allocation.
Normally, the annual Barclays Group cash bonus plans and various other cash the maximum expected value of an award at the date of grant will be the long-term incentive plans operated by Barclays Group companies.
higher of 150% of base salary or 75% of base salary and target bonus.
Currently, for executive Directors, typically 75% of the annual bonus is Expected value is a single value for the award at grant which takes account delivered as cash.
A recommendation may be made to the ESAS of the various possible performance and vesting outcomes, although it is trustee that the remaining 25% is delivered as an award under ESAS Barclays performance over a three-year period which determines the final Mandatory ESAS award.
number of shares that may be released to participants.
Dividend shares In addition, executive Directors may request that any cash bonus, to which may also be released in respect of the vested shares.
2 they may have otherwise become entitled, be granted as an additional Awards normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, if and award under ESAS Voluntary ESAS award.
to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied.
Note that: Both Mandatory and Voluntary ESAS awards will normally include relative TSR and EP are both considered to be good measures of value additional shares called bonus shares with a value of up to 30% of the creation to shareholders: bonus amount awarded in shares.
The ESAS trustee may apply dividends before any shares are released, Barclays cumulative EP over the it receives on shares held in trust in purchasing additional Barclays shares performance period must normally be greater than the total for the which may also be released to participants.
previous three-year period: A Mandatory ESAS award is a provisional allocation of Barclays shares for PSP awards made in 2005, the award depended on Barclays TSR which does not give rise to any right or interest in those shares.
Normally, relative to a peer group of 11 other international banks.
These awards are under a Mandatory ESAS award, the ESAS trustee grants participants the due to lapse in 2008 as the TSR performance condition was not satisfied: right to call for the shares plus two-thirds of any bonus shares, in the form of a nil-cost option following the third anniversary of the award date.
If this the performance conditions for PSP awards made in 2006 and 2007 right is not exercised, the ESAS trustee may, following the fifth anniversary, will be measured over the three-year performance period 2006 to release all the Barclays shares including all bonus shares and dividend 2008 and 2007 to 2009 respectively : shares to the participant.
for PSP awards made in 2006 and 2007, 50% of the award depends on Awards under Voluntary ESAS are granted in the form of a nil-cost option Barclays EP and 50% of the award depends on Barclays TSR relative to a which is a right to acquire Barclays shares which will become fully peer group of 11 other international banks: exercisable after five years.
for awards made in 2005, 2006 and 2007 in relation to the TSR element of the award, there is no vesting unless Barclays is ranked Neither the exercise of nil-cost options granted under Mandatory or Voluntary ESAS nor the release of Barclays shares under award is subject above median on relative TSR.
As ESAS is a deferred share award plan, it The peer group for the TSR element of the 2007 award, as for the 2006 would not be appropriate to attach a performance condition to options a award, is : or awards.
UK Mainland Europe US If an executive ceases to be employed he may forfeit his award depending b HBOS Banco Santander Citigroup on why he leaves.
HSBC BBVA JP Morgan Chase Lloyds TSB BNP Paribas Royal Bank of Scotland Deutsche Bank UBS The performance scales for the TSR and EP elements of the 2007 award are as shown in the two charts below: PSP 2007: Total Shareholder Return Performance Scale PSP 2007: EP Performance Scale Award Multiple Award Multiple 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.25 1.0 8th 7th 6th 5th 4th 3rd 2nd 1st 7,400 7,800 8,200 8,600 Cumulative 2007-2009 EP m Barclays TSR ranking in the peer group Notes a The reserve companies for the 2006 and 2007 awards are UniCredit, Morgan Stanley, accordance with the Committees agreed peer group adjustment principles.
Bank of America and Wachovia.
This adjustment was made in anticipation of the takeover of ABN AMRO.
Following a review of the peer group reserve banks, it was decided that Banco b The Committee has approved the substitution of Banco Santander for ABN AMRO in Santander was the most suitable substitute based on both competitive position relative the TSR peer group for awards granted under the PSP in 2005, 2006 and 2007, in to Barclays and similarity to ABN AMRO.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 147 33% 1.0 1.25 42% 50% 1.5 67% 2.0 83% 2.5 100% 3.0 Number of shares that vest as a % of maximum Corporate governance Remuneration report EP comprises profit after tax and minority interests less a capital charge.
To encourage employee ownership of Barclays shares, Barclays matches, share for share, up to the first 600 each participant invests in Independent confirmation is provided to the Committee as to whether Sharepurchase in each tax year.
Matching shares must normally be held a performance condition has been met.
by the trustee on behalf of the participant for no less than three years.
Each year a review of the Groups share-based long-term incentives At 31st December 2007, 23,097 employees were participants in currently the PSP is undertaken to check that the structure and Sharepurchase, with a total of 12.9 million shares held on their behalf by performance conditions remain appropriate in respect of the Groups the Sharepurchase trustee.
business objectives and best market practice.
The 2007 review included consideration of eligibility criteria.
The outcome of the review Dilution Limits was that participation in the PSP should be restricted to executive The outstanding awards under ISOP and Sharesave are intended to be Directors, members of the Executive Committee, Executive Committee satisfied by the issue of new Barclays shares or through treasury shares direct reports and other key senior positions.
Developing a link to Barclays within the limits agreed by shareholders when these plans were approved.
share price is important and therefore, as individuals below these levels These limits comply with the Association of British Insurers guidelines become more highly remunerated, some of their remuneration may be restricting dilution from employee share plans.
The overall limits under the delivered as an award of Barclays shares to be known as Incentive guidelines are that no more than 10% of a companys issued share capital Shares.
Participants would not be eligible for a release of shares until the may be used in any ten-year period.
Up to 5% may be used for executive third anniversary and the release of Incentive Shares would not be subject share plans.
Shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited to performance conditions.
It is intended that a new employee share plan issued as a result of option exercises under the BGI EOP also count will be established under which Incentive Shares will be granted.
No Board towards these limits.
As at 31st December 2007, Barclays headroom Directors will be eligible to participate in this plan and awards will be settled under these limits, i. e. the amount remaining available for issue, was 4.2% using only existing Barclays shares.
ISOP Employees Benefit Trusts EBTs ISOP Incentive Share Option Plan has not been used for awards to The trustees of the Barclays EBTs grant awards under ESAS and PSP executive Directors since 2004.
Details of ISOP awards held by executive over existing Barclays shares which they have purchased in the market.
Directors can be found on page 157.
Awards in 2003 and 2004 under ISOP The trustees of the Barclays EBTs have informed the Bank that their include financial metrics or thresholds which were adjusted where normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of the Barclays shares necessary to neutralise the effect of the introduction of IFRS.
The main performance condition was TSR relative to a peer group of 11 The trustees of the Sharepurchase EBT may vote in respect of Barclays other major international banks, combined with an EP threshold.
Awards shares held in the Sharepurchase EBT, but only at the direction of the have now vested, as set out in the table on page 157. participants.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect of shares held in the Sharepurchase EBT.
Retained Incentive Opportunity Pensions Robert E Diamond Jr received an award in February 2008 under the All Group pension arrangements are managed in accordance with the Retained Incentive Opportunity.
This award was subject to performance Global Retirement Fund Governance Framework to ensure best practice criteria based on the delivery of EP at Barclays Capital over the period 2005 in respect of regulatory compliance, governance, investment and to 2007.
The performance measure applied was cumulative EP administration.
The framework is overseen by the Committee.
performance of Barclays Capital during the period 1st January 2005 to 31st December 2007.
In order to achieve the maximum value award Pension benefits for executive Directors are provided through defined under the Retained Incentive Opportunity, Barclays Capital had to benefit plans, defined contribution plans, unfunded unapproved retirement successfully generate a cumulative EP of 2bn over the performance benefit arrangements, cash or a combination of these.
EP was chosen as this is an appropriate measure to align the applicable will depend on the date an executive Director was appointed interests of the participant with those of shareholders and is a good and their individual situation.
Annual performance related bonuses are not measure of value creation for shareholders.
Details of the award which was made to Robert E Diamond Jr are on The Groups closed UK defined benefit pension arrangement, of which page 155.
John Varley and Gary Hoffman are members, is a non-contributory scheme.
Benefits are provided on leaving service at normal pension age Sharesave 60 by reference to the executive Directors length of service, normally by All eligible employees including executive Directors may participate in reference to 1 60th of pensionable salary for each year of pensionable Sharesave.
Sharesave is an HMRC Her Majestys Revenue and Customs service John Varleys pension accrual is provided through the scheme in approved all-employee share option plan.
HMRC does not permit accordance with his service contract as set out in the notes to the performance conditions to be attached to the exercise of Sharesave pensions table on page 152. options.
Under Sharesave, participants are granted options over Barclays shares.
Each participant may save up to 250 per month to purchase The Groups closed UK defined benefit pension arrangement also provides Barclays shares at a discount.
For the 2007 grant, the discount was 20% of that, in the event of death before retirement, a cash lump sum of up to four the market value of a share at the time the option was granted.
Sharesave times salary is paid together with a dependants pension of 50% of the is also offered to employees in Spain and Ireland.
Following the 2007 pension that would have been payable had the member remained in invitation, a total of 40,621 employees in the UK, Spain and Ireland were active service until their normal pension age.
For death in retirement, a participants in Sharesave with 72.4 million shares under option.
Details of dependants pension is payable of approximately 50% of the members options held by executive Directors are on page 156. pension at the date of death, not taking into account commutation of any cash lump sum at the time of the members retirement.
If a member is Sharepurchase granted a deferred pension that has not yet come into payment, the Sharepurchase was introduced in January 2002.
It is an HMRC approved widow widower receives a pension of 50% of the deferred pension all-employee share plan.
Sharepurchase is open to all eligible employees payable.
Where applicable, childrens pensions are payable, usually up to including executive Directors.
Under Sharepurchase, participants are able the age of 18.
Enhanced benefits may be payable if it is determined that a to purchase up to 1,500 worth of Barclays shares each year, which, if member is unable to work as a result of serious ill-health.
kept in trust for five years, can be withdrawn from Sharepurchase tax-free.
Any shares in Sharepurchase will earn dividends in the form of additional The Groups US non-contributory defined benefit arrangement, of which shares, which must normally be held by the trustee on behalf of the Robert E Diamond Jr is a member, provides a benefit at age 65 of 1 60th of participant for no less than three years.
final average pensionable pay plus 0.3% of final average pensionable pay in excess of the US Internal Revenue Services covered compensation limit 148 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance for each year of pensionable service up to a maximum of 30 years.
In line Barclays Capital, BGI, Barclays Wealth and GRCB with current market practice, final average pay in the US includes an The Committee has established frameworks for the governance of element of bonus subject to overall plan limits.
In the event of a members remuneration in these businesses.
Ranges have been set for key financial death before retirement, a spouses pension of approximately 50% of the and remuneration ratios.
The Committee approves aggregate bonus and members pension had the member taken early retirement on the date of long-term incentive expenditure, and strategic investment for new hires.
On death after retirement, a spouses pension of 50% of The Committee also approves individual remuneration for the members the pension in payment is payable.
In addition, enhanced benefits are of the management teams, and any employee with total remuneration in payable if the member qualifies for disability benefits.
The US Restoration Plan, of which Robert E Diamond Jr is also a member, is The BGI EOP an unfunded unapproved arrangement which restores reductions in the BGI is Barclays asset management business headquartered in San benefits provided through the approved US plan resulting from the Francisco.
The BGI EOP BGI Equity Ownership Plan was approved by application of relevant compensation and benefit limitations under the US shareholders at Barclays 2000 AGM to provide the employee share Internal Revenue Code.
Robert E Diamond Jr participates in this plan on incentive arrangements required to recruit and retain the quality of senior similar terms to other Barclays senior executives participating in US benefit management and investment talent appropriate for building a global plans.
The BGI EOP was designed to provide 2 participants with a long-term equity interest in BGI to meet the Robert E Diamond Jr also participates in the Barclays Bank PLC 401K Thrift expectations of, in particular, BGIs key investment talent in the United Savings Plan and Thrift Restoration Plan on similar terms to other Barclays States, who could expect to participate in the equity of their employer.
senior executives in the US.
Under the terms of the BGI EOP, options are granted at fair value to key BGI Where appropriate, cash allowances are provided to executive Directors in employees over shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited lieu of being able to join a Group pension arrangement.
Chris Lucas, BGI Holdings within an overall cap of 20% of the issued ordinary share Naguib Kheraj and Frits Seegers received such cash allowances in 2007. capital of BGI Holdings.
In the event that an executive Director builds up pension benefits close to, All grants of options are approved by the Committee.
The Committee is or in excess of, the HMRC Lifetime Allowance, the executive Director is also advised of option exercises and share sales by employees.
Directors eligible to opt for a cash allowance instead of continued pension accrual.
of Barclays PLC are not eligible to receive options under the BGI EOP.
The allowance given is no more than the cost of funding the existing In summary the BGI EOP operates as follows: pension benefit.
certain key BGI employees are granted options over shares in Service Contracts BGI Holdings: The Group has service contracts with its executive Directors.
The effective dates of the contracts for the executive Directors who served during 2007 the option exercise price is based on the fair value of a BGI Holdings are shown in the table below.
The service contracts do not have a fixed share at the date of grant determined by an independent appraiser: term but provide for a notice period from the Group of one year and the options generally vest evenly over a three-year period and can normally for retirement at age 65, except for Naguib Kheraj who has left normally be exercised in two annual exercise windows: the Group.
The Committees policy is that executive Directors contracts should allow for termination with contractual notice from the Group or, in option holders are required to fund the exercise without any financial the alternative, termination by way of payment in lieu of notice in phased support from any member of the Barclays Group.
In the event of gross misconduct, neither notice nor a Once employees become shareholders, they are subject to the Articles of payment in lieu of notice will be given.
Payments in lieu of notice are BGI Holdings under which: subject to contractual mitigation.
shareholders are required to hold the shares for a minimum of 355 days.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of As shareholders, employees derive the full risks and rewards of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including ownership, including voting rights and entitlement to any ordinary the reason for termination, contractual obligations and share and pension dividends paid by BGI Holdings: plan rules.
on expiry of the minimum holding period, shareholders may, but are not Potential obliged to, offer their shares for sale usually during two annual sales Effective compensation windows: date of Notice for loss a b Directors contract period of office Barclays Bank PLC, at its discretion, has a right to purchase shares so John Varley 1st Sept 2004 1 year 1 years contractual offered, but is not obliged to do so.
"c remuneration Robert E Diamond Jr 1st Jun 2005 1 year "" Gary Hoffman 1st Jan 2004 1 year "" d Naguib Kheraj 1st Jan 2004 1 year "" e Chris Lucas 1st Apr 2007 1 year "" Frits Seegers 7th Jun 2006 1 year "" Notes d Naguib Kheraj ceased to be an executive Director on 31st March 2007. a Details of executive Directors standing for re-election at the 2008 AGM are set out on page 130. e Chris Lucas was appointed as an executive Director with effect from 1st April 2007. b Notice period from Barclays to executive Director."
c One years contractual remuneration is calculated as follows: 12 months base salary, bonus, if eligible being the average of the previous three years bonus awards, in some cases Gary Hoffman, Chris Lucas and Naguib Kheraj capped at 100% of base salary, medical benefit while an employee and continuation of pension benefits.
Payments in lieu of notice are subject to mitigation if alternative employment is found during any period in which pay in lieu of notice is paid.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 149 Corporate governance Remuneration report The table below contains information on the number of shares in BGI As Deputy Chairman, Sir Nigel Rudd receives 200,000.
Sir Nigel Rudd Holdings over which options were granted, outstanding and exercised in did not receive any additional fees for serving as a member of the Board 2006 and 2007: Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
Sir Richard Broadbent receives an additional 30,000 in respect of his role as Senior Independent Number Number Director.
Marcus Agius serves as a member of the Board HR and granted outstanding Number Remuneration Committee and is Chairman of the Corporate Governance during year at year end exercised Year 000s 000s 000s and Nominations Board Committee.
He does not receive any fees in relation to these appointments.
The Boards policy is that fees should reflect individual responsibilities and In 2007 BGI employees exercised options over 1.6m 2006: 2.2m shares membership of Board Committees.
Barclays encourages its non-executive for consideration of 57m 2006: 44m : Barclays Bank PLC purchased Directors to build up a holding in Barclays shares.
20,000 of each Directors 4.9m 2006: 4.9m shares offered for sale by shareholders for consideration base fee of 65,000 is used to buy Barclays shares.
As at 31st December 2007, employees own with reinvested dividends, are retained on behalf of the non-executive 5.9% of BGI Holdings 2006: 9.4%.
Directors until they retire from the Board.
They are included in the table of BGI EOP Accounting and disclosure Directors interests in Barclays shares on page 158.
Non-executive Directors The BGI EOP is accounted for as an equity settled share-based payment do not receive awards under share plans for employees, nor do they in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The fair value of the accrue pension benefits from Barclays for their non-executive services.
services received from the employees is measured by reference to the fair Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but each has a value of the share options granted on the date of the grant.
The cost of letter of appointment.
For each non-executive Director who served during the employee services received in respect of the share options granted is 2007, the effective date of their appointment, notice period and the Groups recognised in the income statement over the period that the services are liability in the event of early termination are shown in the following table.
The cost for 2007 of 54.8m 2006: 37.4m, 2005: 14.9m is included in staff costs in Note 8 to the accounts.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Effective Group details of share options granted and exercised, together with weighted date of liability in the average fair values at grant date and weighted average exercise prices are Non-executive letter of Notice event of early a Directors appointment period termination set out in Note 44 to the accounts.
In accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per Share, unexercised options are taken into account in the calculation David Booth 1st May 2007 6 months 6 months of diluted earnings per share as set out in Note 11 to the accounts.
"fees For Group reporting, the exercise of options by employees is treated as a Sir Richard Broadbent 1st Sep 2003 "" "" deemed disposal of interests in a subsidiary, as its holding in the subsidiary has been reduced for the consideration represented by the exercise price."
"Leigh Clifford 1st Oct 2004 "" "" Any subsequent purchase of shares offered for sale by employees is Fulvio Conti 1st Apr 2006 "" "" treated as a purchase of an additional investment in a subsidiary entity."
"The cash flows relating to these capital transactions are included in the Dr Danie Cronj 1st Sep 2005 "" "" consolidated cash flow statement and disclosed, along with other disposals Professor Dame and acquisitions, in Note 38 to the accounts and related movements in goodwill and minority interests are included in Notes 21 and 33 to the Sandra Dawson 1st Mar 2003 "" "" accounts respectively."
"Sir Andrew Likierman 1st Sep 2004 "" "" Replacement of the BGI EOP Sir Nigel Rudd 1st Feb 1996 "" "" The Group will introduce a new BGI employee share plan in 2008, under which awards will be made using Barclays PLC shares purchased in the Stephen Russell 25th Oct 2000 "" "" market."
The quantum of awards will be linked to BGI business performance.
"Sir John Sunderland 1st Jun 2005 "" "" Executive Directors will not be eligible to participate in the new BGI plan."
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the BGI EOP and that the BGI EOP will not be renewed in 2010 when it comes to the Sir Michael Rake and Patience Wheatcroft were appointed as non-executive end of its life.
Directors with effect from 1st January 2008.
Non-executive Directors Each appointment is for an initial six-year term, renewable for a single term The Board determines the fees of non-executive Directors and the fees of three years thereafter, with the exception of Sir Nigel Rudd, whose are reviewed annually.
The fee structure as at 31st December 2007 is appointment as Deputy Chairman is reviewed annually.
executive Directors standing for re-election at the 2008 AGM are set out on page 130.
Base fee 65,000 Future Policy Plus: The Committee will keep the existing remuneration arrangements, as detailed in this Report, under review during 2008 and ensure that Barclays Chairman of Board Audit Committee 50,000 programmes remain competitive and provide appropriate incentive for Chairman of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee 40,000 performance.
As usual, there will be individual reviews of base salary, annual bonus including ESAS and awards under the long-term incentive plans.
Chairman of Board Risk Committee 30,000 Audited Information Members of the Board Audit Committee 20,000 As required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985, the Groups auditors,  LLP, have audited the information Members of the following Board Committees: contained on pages 151 to 157.
Risk, HR and Remuneration and Corporate Governance and Nominations 15,000 Note a Marcus Agius was a non-executive Director during 2006 and became Group Chairman on 1st January 2007.
Details of his letter of appointment are set out on page 146.
150 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance a 2007 Annual Remuneration Salary Annual 2007 2006 b and fees Benefits cash bonus Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Group Chairman c Marcus Agius 750 1 751 22 Executive Directors d John Varley 975 18 1,425 2,418 2,516 d, e Robert E Diamond Jr 250 14 6,500 6,764 10,692 d Gary Hoffman 625 15 506 1,146 1,108 f Chris Lucas 450 135 450 1,035 d, g Frits Seegers 700 199 1,313 2,212 1,630 h Non-executive Directors i David Booth 43 43 Sir Richard Broadbent 180 180 147 2 Leigh Clifford 80 80 76 Fulvio Conti 85 85 54 Dr Danie Cronj 217 217 326 Professor Dame Sandra Dawson 85 85 81 Sir Andrew Likierman 100 100 96 Sir Nigel Rudd 200 200 200 Stephen Russell 145 145 137 Sir John Sunderland 95 95 81 Former Director d, j Naguib Kheraj 175 44 438 657 2,565 k Forthcoming ESAS and PSP awards March 2008 March 2007 PSP value PSP value Mandatory of shares Mandatory of shares ESAS 2007 under initial ESAS 2006 under initial results allocation results allocation 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors John Varley 618 1,200 699 1,200 l Robert E Diamond Jr 11,375 3,000 4,518 6,850 Gary Hoffman 219 625 203 625 Chris Lucas 195 800 600 Frits Seegers 569 1,600 520 1,000 Notes a Emoluments include amounts, if any, payable by subsidiary undertakings.
Amounts In addition, Chris Lucas received an award under the PSP which is shown in the table payable to Dr Danie Cronj include an amount of ZAR1,926,400 136,774 in respect above footnote k on this page provides further information.
Chris Lucas received an of his Chairmanship of Absa Group Limited from which he retired on 31st July 2007 allowance of 25% of base salary 112,500 in lieu of pension contributions.
This 2006: ZAR3,114,800 249,829. amount is included in the column for Benefits in the table above.
b The Group Chairman and executive Directors receive benefits in kind, which may g Frits Seegers received an allowance of 25% of base salary 175,000 in lieu of pension contributions pro-rata 2006: 84,028.
This amount is included in the column for include life and disability cover, the use of a Company owned vehicle or cash equivalent, medical insurance and tax advice.
Benefits are provided on similar terms to other senior Benefits in the table above.
No Director has an expense allowance.
h 20,000 of each non-executive Directors base fee of 65,000 is used, after tax, to buy c Marcus Agius was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1st September 2006 and Barclays shares.
Further details are provided on page 158. as Group Chairman from 1st January 2007. i David Booth was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1st May 2007. d In 2007 John Varley was a Director of Ascot Authority Holdings Limited Directorship j Naguib Kheraj ceased to be an executive Director on 31st March 2007.
The amounts ceased on 31st December 2007 and British Grolux Investments Limited for which he shown in the table above are in respect of the period from 1st January 2007 to 31st received fees of 20,085 and 7,613 respectively 2006: 26,000 and 7,500 respectively.
During this period Naguib Kheraj received an allowance of 23% of base John Varley is a non-executive Director of AstraZeneca plc for which he received fees salary 40,250 in lieu of pension contributions 2006: 149,500.
John Varley is also a member of the International been included in the column for Benefits above.
In order to effect a successful handover Advisory Panel of the Monetary Authority of Singapore for which he received fees of to his successor, from 1st April 2007 to 30th April 2007, Naguib Kheraj was paid in US$10,000 in 2007 2006: US$10,000.
John Varley is Chairman of Business Action on accordance with the terms of his service contract being a total amount of 218,343 Homelessness and President of the Employers Forum on Disability for which he receives which included a discretionary bonus of 145,833.
Following the termination of his no fees.
Robert E Diamond Jr is Chairman of Old Vic Productions plc for which he service contract and taking into consideration the duty to mitigate his loss, no payments received no fees in 2007.
Gary Hoffman is a Director of Visa Europe Limited and Visa were made to Naguib Kheraj in relation to the termination of his contract.
Naguib Kheraj International Limited for which he receives no fees.
Gary Hoffman is also a Director of was retained by Barclays in a corporate finance advisory role for an eight month period Trinity Mirror plc for which he received fees of 62,754 in 2007 2006: 50,000.
During from 1st May 2007 to 31st December 2007.
Naguib Kheraj received a payment of the course of his Directorship Naguib Kheraj was a member of the Board of Governors of 600,000 per month for this period, as well as a payment of 14,178 per month the Institute of Ismaili Studies and Chairman of the National Committee of the Aga Khan for contractual benefits including an allowance in lieu of pensions contributions.
Foundation for which he received no fees in 2007.
Naguib Kheraj up to 31st March Naguib Kherajs corporate finance role was terminated on 31st December 2007 2007 and Frits Seegers are non-executive Directors of Absa Group Limited and Absa and no payments were made to Naguib Kheraj on termination of this arrangement.
They have both waived their fees, which were paid to Barclays.
Their k The amounts shown for Mandatory ESAS represent the value of Barclays shares respective fees in 2007 were ZAR136,533 9,694 and ZAR469,900 33,363 to be recommended for an award under Mandatory ESAS for the 2007 results and, 2006: ZAR425,100 34,096 and ZAR75,400 6,048 respectively.
recommended for an award under Mandatory ESAS for the 2006 results, including e The remuneration for 2007 for Robert E Diamond Jr was based on the performance of a maximum 30% bonus share element.
The Mandatory ESAS awards for the 2006 Barclays Group, Barclays Capital, Barclays Global Investors and Barclays Wealth, both results are included in the table on page 153 and the first table on page 154.
The on an absolute and industry relative basis.
The composition of this package continues amounts shown for PSP represent the value of Barclays shares under initial allocation to be heavily weighted towards elements that are at risk' and reflects practice in the to be recommended for an award under PSP in March 2008 and recommended for an investment banking and investment management industry.
award under PSP in March 2007 May 2007 for Chris Lucas.
The PSP awards granted f Chris Lucas was appointed as an executive Director with effect from 1st April 2007. in 2007 are included in the table on page 153 and the first table on page 155.
In addition to the amount shown in the Salary and fees column above, Chris Lucas Please refer to page 147 for further details on ESAS and PSP.
received an award under ESAS in recognition of forfeited compensation from his previous l In addition to the Mandatory ESAS award shown for the 2007 results, Robert E Diamond Jr employment.
Bonus shares are not applicable to this award.
Details of this ESAS award will receive a separate award under ESAS in respect of the Retained Incentive are shown in the table on page 153 and the first table on page 154, and are not included Opportunity as described in footnote f to the table on page 155.
Bonus shares do in the table above.
not apply to the ESAS award in respect of the Retained Incentive Opportunity.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 151 Corporate governance Remuneration report a, b, c Executive Directors: pension accrued assuming retirement at normal pension age Pension Transfer Transfer accrued Pension value of value of Accrued during accrued Accrued accrued accrued Increase in pension 2007 during pension pension pension transfer Age at 31st including 2007 at 31st at 31st at 31st value at 31st Completed December increase for excluding December December December during December years 2006 inflation inflation 2007 2006 2007 the year 2007 of service 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors d, e John Varley 51 25 418 71 55 489 7,696 9,463 1,767 f, g Robert E Diamond Jr 56 11 36 22 38 195 214 19 e Gary Hoffman 47 25 253 20 11 273 2,352 2,598 246 h Chris Lucas 47 h Frits Seegers 49 1 Former Director h, i Naguib Kheraj 43 10 Notes a Pension accrued during the year represents the change in accrued pension including f The benefits shown above in respect of Robert E Diamond Jrs participation in the inflation at the prescribed rate of 3.9% which occurred during the entire year.
The Groups US non-contributory defined benefit arrangement and the US Restoration pensions paid from the final salary section of the applicable pension fund are reviewed Plan have been converted to Pounds Sterling using the 2007 year-end exchange rate annually.
Pensions increase by a minimum of the increase in the retail prices index up to of US$2.00334 2006: US$1.96.
a maximum of 5%, subject to the scheme rules.
g Robert E Diamond Jr is also a member of the Barclays Bank PLC 401K Thrift Savings b The transfer values have been calculated in a manner consistent with the Retirement Plan and Thrift Restoration Plan.
These are US defined contribution plans.
Company Benefit Scheme Transfer Values GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the contributions into these plans in 2007 amounted to 10,233 US$20,500.
h Chris Lucas, Naguib Kheraj and Frits Seegers do not participate in any of the Groups c With the exception of the benefits provided through the US Restoration Plan for Robert E pension arrangements.
Instead they receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension Diamond Jr, the pension benefits for all Directors shown above are provided for on a contributions of 25%, 23% and 25% of their respective salaries.
Chris Lucas pro-rated funded basis.
cash allowance in 2007 amounted to 112,500.
Naguib Kheraj, who ceased to be a Director on 31st March 2007, received a pro-rated cash allowance of 40,250, while d John Varley is a member of the Groups closed UK defined benefit pension arrangement.
Frits Seegers cash allowance in 2007 was 175,000.
This non-contributory pension scheme has a normal pension age of 60 and in accordance with his service contract, the scheme provides him with a pension benefit of i In addition to the cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions, Naguib Kheraj 66.67% of his Pensionable Salary at normal pension age.
Should John Varley retire at has defined contribution benefits in respect of a previous period of participation in age 55, the scheme provides for an unreduced pension of 60% of Pensionable Salary.
The fund value of this deferred benefit as at 31st March 2007, when he ceased to be an executive Director, was 110,821. e In addition to the transfer value of accrued pension at 31st December 2007, John Varley and Gary Hoffman also have defined contribution benefits.
John Varleys benefit is in respect of a transfer from a previous pension arrangement while Gary Hoffmans benefit is in respect of Special Company Contributions Bonus Sacrifice.
The fund values of these arrangements as at 31st December 2007 for John Varley and Gary Hoffman were 689,214 and 702,078 respectively.
152 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance Executive Directors: illustration of change in value of Barclays PLC shares owned beneficially, or held under option or awarded under employee a share plans as at 31st December 2007 Number at 31st December 2007 Notional Notional Executive value based value based Share on share on share Change in Shares Option price of price of notional f g owned Scheme 7.30 5.04 value b c d e e beneficially ESAS PSP ESOS ISOP Sharesave Total 000 000 000 Executive Directors John Varley 470,650 344,711 459,503 920,000 3,638 2,198,502 11,976 7,056 4,920 Robert E Diamond Jr 3,402,192 4,863,749 1,755,335 100,000 560,000 10,681,276 75,033 50,942 24,091 Gary Hoffman 431,761 274,402 257,116 540,000 6,150 1,509,429 8,555 5,187 3,368 Chris Lucas 38,003 69,091 82,910 3,638 193,642 1,382 958 424 Frits Seegers 699,870 231,383 294,154 3,390 1,228,797 8,954 6,177 2,777 2 Notes a Under PSP, ESAS, ISOP, ESOS and Sharesave, nothing was paid by the participants on e The number of shares shown represents the vested shares under option.
the grant of options or awards.
f With the exception of Chris Lucas, the notional value is based on the share price as at b The number shown includes shares held under Sharepurchase.
The notional value for Chris Lucas is based on a share price of 7.23, which was the share price as at 2nd April 2007, the first working day after he was c ESAS includes the maximum potential 30% bonus share element where applicable, appointed executive Director.
and any voluntary ESAS awards.
g The notional value is based on the share price as at 31st December 2007.
The highest d The number of shares shown represents the initial allocation of shares.
and lowest market prices per share during the year were 7.90 and 4.775 respectively.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 153 Corporate governance Remuneration report a, h, i, j Executive Directors: shares provisionally allocated and shares under option under ESAS During 2007 Awarded in Market Market Number Number at respect of price on price on Bonus at 31st 1st January the results Release Exercise shares December c 2007 for 2006 Released date Exercised date lapsed 2007 Executive Directors John Varley 278,211 95,328 28,828 7.15 344,711 d Robert E Diamond Jr 5,282,875 616,303 1,035,429 7.15 4,863,749 Gary Hoffman 166,526 27,712 16,924 7.15 177,314 b Chris Lucas 69,091 Frits Seegers 802,208 70,941 641,766 6.84 231,383 Former Director Naguib Kheraj 790,317 230,560 7.15 559,757 Shares under option under ESAS and voluntary ESAS as at 31st December 2007 with the exception of voluntary ESAS, shares under option are included in aggregate figures above During 2007 Nil cost Number option Market price Bonus under under on exercise shares Voluntary Nil cost voluntary Voluntary date of lapsed on ESAS at option ESAS at ESAS Voluntary voluntary exercise of 31st Date from Latest granted at 1st January option ESAS option ESAS voluntary December which expiry e f g 3rd anniversary 2007 granted exercised option ESAS option 2007 exercisable date Executive Directors John Varley 56,037 28 02 06 05 03 09 Robert E Diamond Jr Gary Hoffman 47,663 136,584 39,496 7.17 97,088 05 03 04 05 03 14 Chris Lucas Frits Seegers Former Director Naguib Kheraj 402,509 28 02 06 30 06 08 Notes a The number of shares shown in the table includes the maximum potential 30% bonus e The shares under option shown in this column are already included in the numbers shown at 1st January 2007 in the first table on this page, and relate to provisional element where applicable.
allocations made in 2003 and 2004 except that the figures do not include accumulated b Figures shown in the column Number at 1st January 2007 for Chris Lucas are as dividend shares under option as follows: 7,410 shares for John Varley, 6,303 shares for at date of joining.
An award of 69,091 Barclays shares was granted to Chris Lucas on Gary Hoffman and 53,059 shares for Naguib Kheraj.
1st May 2007, following his appointment as an executive Director on 1st April 2007, f The shares under option in this column are not included in the numbers shown at in recognition of forfeited compensation from his previous employment.
Bonus shares are not applicable to the award.
1st January 2007 or 31st December 2007 in the first table on this page.
g These figures do not include 9,624 accumulated dividend shares released on exercise c The trustees may release additional shares to participants which represent accumulated dividends net of withholding in respect of shares under award.
During 2007, the of voluntary ESAS options.
trustees released the following accumulated dividend shares: 6,865 to John Varley, h Awards in respect of 2007 will be made in March 2008.
Including the maximum 100,645 to Robert E Diamond Jr, 4,030 to Gary Hoffman and 54,899 to Naguib Kheraj.
potential 30% bonus element, awards will total 617,500 to John Varley, 11,375,000 These are not awarded as part of the original award and consequently are not included to Robert E Diamond Jr, 219,375 to Gary Hoffman, 568,750 to Frits Seegers and in the Released column.
d The number shown in the column headed Number at 1st January 2007 includes shares i Nothing was paid by the participants on the grant of options or awards.
held by Robert E Diamond Jr which reflect interests built up over the course of successive years service with Barclays.
The awards were related to Robert E Diamond j Please refer to page 147 for further details on ESAS and voluntary ESAS.
Jrs contribution to the performance of Investment Banking, Investment Management and the Barclays Group as a whole.
Chris Lucas are as at date of joining.
Nothing was paid by the participants on the grant of awards.
b In respect of John Varley, Robert E Diamond Jr, Gary Hoffman and Frits Seegers, the price used to convert the present fair value of the award to a number of shares was 7.33. f Robert E Diamond Jrs award under the Retained lncentive Opportunity reached the end This was the average over the period 20th February 2007 to 13th March 2007.
In respect of its performance period on 31st December 2007.
Barclays Capitals cumulative EP of Chris Lucas, the price used to convert the present fair value of the award to a number over the three-year performance period, which started on 1st January 2005, exceeded of shares was 7.23, which was the price at which shares were purchased in the market the 2bn threshold for the maximum potential value to vest in accordance with the to fund the award.
This resulted in a vesting in February 2008 to the value of 14,850,000 with 50% payable in cash and the remaining 50% as a recommendation c The price shown is the mid-market closing price on the date of the award.
to the trustee of ESAS for an award of Barclays shares in the form of a provisional d The details of the performance conditions for PSP are included on page 147. allocation.
Any shares under the ESAS award would be releasable after 12 months from the award date.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 155 Corporate governance Remuneration report a Executive Directors: shares under option under Sharesave During 2007 Information as at 31st December 2007 Weighted average Number Market Number of exercise held at Exercise price on shares held price of Date from Latest 1st January price per date of under outstanding which expiry 2007 Granted Exercised share exercise option options exercisable date Executive Directors John Varley 4,096 3,638 4,096 4.11 7.89 3,638 4.83 01 11 14 30 04 15 Robert E Diamond Jr Gary Hoffman 6,474 324 3.16 5.09 6,150 4.35 01 11 08 30 04 14 Chris Lucas 3,638 3,638 4.83 01 11 14 30 04 15 Frits Seegers 3,390 3,390 4.83 01 11 12 30 04 13 Former Director Naguib Kheraj 4,007 4,007 4.08 01 01 08 30 06 08 Note a Figures shown in the column Number held at 1st January 2007 for Chris Lucas are as at date of joining.
Nothing was paid by the participants on the grant of options.
