Filename: U54368 doc4.3d Time: 14:49:45 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1167334204 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 63 Directors remuneration report This is the boards report to shareholders on directors remuneration.
It covers both executive directors and non-executive directors.
The first and second parts were prepared by the remuneration committee.
The third part was prepared by the company secretary on behalf of the board.
The report has been approved by the board and signed on its behalf by the company secretary.
The report is subject to the approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting AGM.
Contents Part 1 Summary 64 Letter to shareholders Summary 2007 remuneration Pensions Historical TSR performance Part 2 Executive directors remuneration 66 2007 remuneration Salary increases Annual bonus result 2005-2007 share element result Remuneration policy Salary Annual bonus Long-term incentives Pensions Other benets Pensions table Share element of EDIP table Share options table Service contracts Executive directors external appointments Remuneration committee Part 3 Non-executive directors remuneration 72 Filename: U54368 doc4.3d Time: 14:49:45 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -696668108 64 Review of policy Part 1: Summary With a new top team in place and having come through a testing time in terms of company performance, the committee decided to review Dear Shareholder remuneration policy during the year.
The key area of review was the This year has been a period of transition for the group and so the performance conditions applied to the EDIP share element.
In particular, long-standing principles that guide the remuneration committee have the committee considered whether additional performance measures or been particularly in evidence.
These centre on a demanding performance non-financial measures, such as health and safety indicators, should be link, for the majority of executive directors remuneration, to support included.
The review included consultation with major shareholders and the creation of long-term shareholder value: and the application of a comparison with other companies remuneration policies.
The review informed judgement by the committee, using both quantitative and reinforced our confidence in the current plan, approved by shareholders qualitative assessments, to ensure a fair and appropriate reward in 2005, in particular in the exibility it gives us to exercise our judgement for the executive directors.
with regard to underlying performance and non-financial indicators without being formulaic.
No changes to the policy are planned.
Executive changes For 2008, therefore, our policy is as follows: Key among the transitions was the appointment of Dr Hayward as Salary Salaries are reviewed annually, based on independent advice, group chief executive.
Mr Inglis was appointed chief executive of our with regard to comparator companies and market conditions.
exploration and production business and Mr Conn assumed the role of Annual bonus On-target bonus is set at 120% of salary.
The normal chief executive of our rening and marketing business.
They, along with maximum bonus, also unchanged, is 150% of salary but, as in past Dr Grote in his continuing role as chief financial officer, make up the new years, the committee may in exceptional circumstances award bonus top team for the company.
The committee considered both the scale and above that level if deemed justied by performance.
Bonus for 2008 importance of their roles as well as the operating style of the new team will reect the business priorities of safety, people and performance in reviewing their remuneration during the year.
Dr Haywards salary as articulated by Dr Hayward.
Of the 120% on-target bonus, 50 will was increased to 950,000 per annum and the salary of both Mr Inglis be measured on financial results, principally earnings before interest, and Mr Conn was set at 650,000 per annum.
Dr Grotes salary was taxes, depreciation and amortization EBITDA, return on average increased to $1,300,000 per annum.
All will have a target bonus capital employed and cash ow: 25 will be based on safety as opportunity of 120% of salary and long-term performance share awards assessed by the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee of 5.5 times salary.
These performance shares only vest to the extent SEEAC : 25 on people, behaviour and values: and 20 on individual that demanding performance conditions are met.
In addition to these performance, which will primarily reect relevant operating results ongoing plans, Mr Inglis and Mr Conn were each recently granted and leadership.
one-off retention awards in the form of restricted shares to a value of EDIP The share element will provide the primary long-term 1,500,000.
These will vest in equal tranches after three and five years, remuneration vehicle.
Shares will be awarded to a level of 5.5 times subject to their continued service and satisfactory performance.
salary for each executive director.
These will vest after three years to Both Lord Browne and Mr Manzoni left the company during the year.
the extent that performance relative to the other oil majors merits it.
Lord Browne remained eligible for a lump sum ex gratia superannuation Performance is measured principally on TSR versus ExxonMobil, Shell, payment equal to one years salary but, in light of his resignation, Total and Chevron.
100% of shares vest if first, 70% if second, 35% received no other compensation on his retirement.
Mr Manzoni received if third and nothing if fourth or fifth.
The committee will also apply one years salary in line with his contractual entitlement.
Both were informed judgement, looking at overall performance in determining eligible for a pro-rata bonus for 2007, reecting the results achieved as the final vesting level.
Shares that vest must be retained for a further well as their time employed during the year.
Both retain full participation three years before being released to the executive director.
In in the 2005-2007 and 2006-2008 share element but forfeit any addition, each executive director is expected to build a significant personal shareholding in BP.
They both retain outstanding share options granted in earlier years.
Pensions Executive directors are eligible to participate in the appropriate pension schemes applying to their home countries.
2007 performance With this policy, the majority of executive directors target Overall performance for the year was constrained by the continuing remuneration is performance-based.
Recognizing that unforeseen impact of past operating challenges.
Bonuses awarded reect the developments mean no remuneration structure is perfect, the committee balance of somewhat disappointing financial results coupled with will continue to apply its judgement in the implementation of the policy good progress on non-financial measures, including health, safety so as to reect shareholders interests and also engage and retain our and environment HSE, and very committed efforts by the executive talented team of executives.
directors to resolve past issues, advance the forward agenda and deliver results.
These are set out in the summary table opposite, along with all remuneration paid to executive directors in 2007.
The impact of past operating problems affected the Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP share element.
Shares vest in this element based principally on the total shareholder return TSR relative Dr D S Julius to the oil majors over the three-year performance period.
Performance Chairman, Remuneration Committee failed to meet satisfactory levels and consequently no shares will vest 22 February 2008 in the 2005-2007 plan.
Although Lord Browne similarly did not receive shares under the main 2005-2007 plan, around 15% of the shares of the separate leadership portion vested.
Annual bonuses are shown in the year they were earned.
a This information has been subject to audit.
b Or equivalent plans in which the individual participated prior to joining the board.
c Based on market price on vesting date 5.37 per share $62.91 per ADS.
d Based on market price on vesting date 5.45 per share.
e Maximum potential shares that could vest at the end of the three-year period depending on performance.
f Appointed to the board on 1 February 2007. g Lord Browne resigned from the board on 1 May 2007.
In addition to the above, he was awarded a lump sum ex gratia superannuation payment of one years salary 1,575,000. h Mr Manzoni resigned from the board on 31 August 2007.
In addition to the above, he was awarded compensation for loss of office equal to one years salary 485,000.
He also received 30,000 in respect of statutory rights and retained his company car.
Sir William Castell 39 87 b Historical TSR performance C B Carroll n a 43 This graph shows the growth in value of a hypothetical 100 holding in E B Davis, Jr 100 107 BP p. l. c. ordinary shares over five years, relative to the FTSE 100 Index D J Flint 100 86 of which the company is a constituent.
The values of the hypothetical Dr D S Julius 105 106 100 holdings at the end of the five-year period were 172.09 and Sir Tom McKillop 85 87 188.23 respectively.
b Appointed on 6 June 2007. c Also received a superannuation gratuity of 21,000.
2007 remuneration Remuneration policy Our remuneration policy for executive directors aims to ensure there Salary increases is a clear link between the companys purpose, its business plans and During the year, salary increases were awarded reecting promotions executive reward, with pay varying with performance.
In order to achieve and changed job responsibilities as well as regular market movement.
this, the policy is based on these key principles: The remuneration committee seeks to position salaries competitively The majority of executive remuneration will be linked to the relative to appropriate comparators in Europe and the US oil and gas achievement of demanding performance targets, independently sectors, as well as to reect the operating style of the team at the set to support the creation of long-term shareholder value.
At the end of 2007, annual salaries were as follows: Dr Hayward The structure will reect a fair system of reward for all the 950,000, Dr Allen 510,000, Mr Conn 650,000, Dr Grote $1,300,000 participants.
The remuneration committee will determine the overall amount of each component of remuneration, taking into account the success Annual bonus result of BP and the competitive environment.
Performance measures and targets were set at the beginning of the year There will be a quantitative and qualitative assessment of and formed the main basis for determining the 2007 bonus.
Financial performance, with the remuneration committee making an informed measures accounted for 50% weighting and focused on EBITDA, cash judgement within a framework approved by shareholders.
Non-financial measures carried 30% Remuneration policy and practice will be as transparent as possible.
weight and centred on HSE performance, growth and reputation.
Executives will develop a significant personal shareholding in order Individual performance, including segment deliverables and living the to align their interests with those of shareholders.
values of the group, made up the final 20%.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group will be taken Financially, underlying EBITDA results reected a favourable price into account, especially in setting annual salary increases.
environment but also some performance shortfall, related largely to The remuneration policy for executive directors will be reviewed reduced rening availability at Whiting and Texas City, as well as delays regularly, independently of executive management, and will set in start-up of some major exploration and production projects.
Overall it the tone for the remuneration of other senior executives.
Cash costs were marginally above plan, largely The remuneration committee will actively seek to understand due to higher expenditures in rening, especially Texas City.
expenditure was near plan, despite higher than expected sector ination.
Executive directors total remuneration consists of salary, annual On the non-financial side, safety was maintained as the highest priority bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and other benets.
The of the executive top team.
significant progress was made on many remuneration committee reviews this structure regularly to ensure aspects of process safety, ranging from development and testing of a it is achieving its aims and did so in 2007. process safety index, addressing specic recommendations of the Baker The main part of the review centred on the share element of the EDIP.
Panel, implementing a holistic operating management system OMS and The committee investigated alternative and additional measures to TSR, ensuring clear accountability.
Personal safety metrics and greenhouse in particular those representing underlying operational performance, and gas emissions were also good.
also considered the inclusion of non-financial measures, most notably Growth was led by upstream, which had the strongest year of those relating to HSE.
resource access since the early 1990s and reserves replacement in In the process of the review, input was sought from key institutional excess of 100%.
Renery throughput was below target, due to reduced investors and their representative bodies.
availability at Texas City and Whiting.
BP Alternative Energy met plan After thorough review, the committee concluded that, for the longtargets, achieving some 40% growth compared with 2006. term metrics, there was no perfect measure and, on balance, no strong External assessments indicate that significant progress has been reason for change.
TSR remains an appropriate measure to reect made to rebuild the companys reputation.
The detailed rationale behind the current In terms of individual performance during a transition year, the scoring system, as set out in the notes to the resolution in 2005 that committee recognized very high levels of personal and team effort was approved by shareholders, still remained relevant and valid.
The to produce results, resolve past issues and position the company committee felt that this system gives an optimal balance of quantitative for future success.
assessment relative to oil major performance as well as the ability of The strong individual performances, combined with above-target the committee to make qualitative evaluation of underlying business non-financial and near-target financial performance, led the committee to performance, including non-financial factors such as HSE.
Finally, award bonuses generally around or just above target, as set out in the the committee felt that, in BPs current circumstances, there is merit summary table on page 65. in maintaining the stability of the plan.
2005-2007 share element result Salary Performance for the 2005-2007 share element was assessed relative The remuneration committee reviews salaries annually, taking into to the TSR of the company compared with the other oil majors account other large Europe-based global companies and companies in ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
BPs TSR result, reecting past the US oil and gas sector.
These groups are each dened and analysed operating problems, was last relative to the other majors.
The committee by the committees independent remuneration advisers.
The committee also reviewed the underlying business performance relative to makes a judgement on salary levels based on its assessment of market competitors, including financial ROACE, EPS, cash ow etc.
and nonconditions and the external advice.
While this showed some areas of strong performance, the committees overall assessment, considering both the Annual bonus TSR result and the underlying performance, was that performance failed All executive directors are eligible to take part in an annual performanceto meet satisfactory levels and consequently no shares will vest in the based bonus scheme.
The remuneration committee sets bonus targets Plan for 2005-2007. and levels of eligibility each year.
Lord Browne also held an award under the 2005-2007 share element The target level for 2008 is 120% of base salary.
In normal related to long-term leadership measures.
These focused on sustaining circumstances, the maximum payment for substantially exceeding performance targets will continue to be 150% of base salary.
BPs financial, strategic and organizational health.
Performance relative to the award was assessed by the chairmans committee and, based Filename: U54368 doc4.3d Time: 14:49:45 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -801865243 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 67 Annual bonus awards for 2008 will be based on a mix of demanding Performance conditions financial targets, based on the annual plan and the leadership objectives For performance share awards in 2008, the performance conditions set at the beginning of the year.
The target-level bonus of 120% of base will continue to relate to BPs TSR compared with the other oil majors salary is split as follows: ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron over three years.
We have the 50% financial metrics from the annual plan, principally EBITDA, cash discretion to alter this comparison group if circumstances change for costs and capital expenditure.
example, if there are significant consolidations in the industry.
25% safety performance, including satisfactory and improving key We consider this relative TSR to be the most appropriate measure metrics as well as progress on OMS implementation.
of performance for the purpose of long-term incentives for executive 25% people, including behaviour, values and culture.
It best reects the creation of shareholder value while 20% individual performance, principally on relevant operating results minimizing the impact of sector-specic effects such as the oil price.
TSR is calculated as share price performance over the relevant period, The remuneration committee will also review carefully the underlying assuming dividends are reinvested.
All share prices are averaged over performance of the group in light of company business plans and will the three months before the beginning and end of the performance look at competitors results, analysts reports and the views of the period.
They are measured in US dollars.
At the end of the performance chairmen of other BP board committees when assessing results.
period, the companies TSRs will be ranked.
Executive directors In exceptional circumstances, the remuneration committee can decide performance shares will vest at 100%, 70% and 35% if BP is ranked to award bonuses moderately above the maximum level.
The committee first, second or third respectively: none will vest if BP is in fourth or can also decide to reduce bonuses where this is warranted and, in fifth place.
exceptional circumstances, bonuses could be reduced to zero.
We As the comparator group is small and as the oil majors underlying have a duty to shareholders to use our discretion in a reasonable and businesses are broadly similar, a simple ranking could sometimes distort informed manner, acting to promote the success of the company, and BPs underlying business performance relative to the comparators.
The also to be accountable and transparent in our decisions.
Any significant committee is therefore able to exercise discretion in a reasonable and exercise of discretion will be explained in the subsequent directors informed manner to adjust the vesting level upwards or downwards to remuneration report.
reect better the underlying health of BPs business.
This would be judged by reference to a range of measures including ROACE, growth Long-term incentives in EPS, reserves replacement and cash ow, as well as non-financial Each executive director participates in the EDIP.
It has three elements: reasons such as safety.
The need to exercise discretion is most likely to shares, share options and cash.
The remuneration committee did not use arise when the TSR of some companies is clustered, so that a relatively either share option or cash elements in 2007 and does not intend to do small difference in TSR performance would produce a major difference so in 2008.
We intend that executive directors will continue to receive in vesting levels.
performance shares under the EDIP, barring unforeseen circumstances, The remuneration committee will explain any adjustments in the next until it expires or is renewed in 2010. directors remuneration report following the vesting, in line with its commitment to transparency.
Policy for performance share awards The remuneration committee can award shares to executive directors Special retention awards that will only vest to the extent that demanding performance conditions The committee reviews on an ongoing basis the overall approriateness are satisfied at the end of a three-year period.
The maximum number of of the long-term incentive arrangements in ensuring the retention of key these performance shares that can be awarded to an executive director executives.
After careful review, the committee considered that it was in any year is at the discretion of the remuneration committee, but will appropriate to strengthen the retention element of remuneration for not normally exceed 5.5 times base salary.
Accordingly, the committee in February 2008 In exceptional circumstances, the committee also has an overriding granted, on a one-off basis, a restricted stock award to both Mr Inglis discretion to reduce the number of shares that vest or to decide that no and Mr Conn of shares worth 1,500,000 each.
These awards recognize shares vest.
the importance of these individuals leadership in re-establishing the The compulsory retention period will also be decided by the companys competitive performance as well as their personal committee and will not normally be less than three years.
Together with attractiveness for top jobs externally.
The shares will vest, subject to the performance period, this gives executive directors a six-year incentive continued service, in equal tranches after three and five years.
Vesting structure, as shown in the timeline below, which is designed to ensure of each tranche is dependent on the committee being satisfied, at their interests are aligned with those of shareholders.
each vesting date, with the performance of the individual.
These retention awards have been granted under the EDIP, which permits awards to be made, on an exceptional basis, subject to a TIMELINE FOR 2008-2010 EDIP SHARE ELEMENT requirement of continued service over a specified period.
Additional details are given on page 68.
Award Vesting Release UK directors 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 UK directors are members of the regular BP Pension Scheme.
The core benets under this scheme are non-contributory.
They include a pension Where shares vest, the executive director will receive additional accrualof1 60thofbasic salaryfor eachyearofservice, uptoa shares representing the value of the reinvested dividends.
maximum of two-thirds of final basic salary and a dependants benefit The committees policy continues to be that each executive director of two-thirds of the members pension.
The scheme pension is not build a significant personal shareholding, with a target of shares integrated with state pension benets.
equivalent in value to five times his or her base salary within a reasonable The rules of the BP Pension Scheme were amended in 2006 such timeframe from appointment as an executive director.
This policy is that the normal retirement age is 65.
Prior to 1 December 2006, scheme reected in the terms of the EDIP, as shares awarded will normally only members could retire on or after age 60 without reduction.
Special early be released at the end of the three-year retention period, described retirement terms apply to pre-1 December 2006 service for members above, if these minimum shareholding guidelines are met.
with long service as at 1 December 2006.
Filename: U54368 doc4.3d Time: 14:49:46 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 515185773 68 Pension benets in excess of the individual lifetime allowance set by There is an offset for benets payable under all other BP qualied and legislation are paid via an unapproved, unfunded pension arrangement non-qualied pension arrangements.
This benefit is unfunded and provided directly by the company.
therefore paid from corporate assets.
Dr Grote is eligible to participate under the supplemental plan.
His US directors pension accrual for 2007, shown in the table below, includes the total Dr Grote participates in the US BP Retirement Accumulation Plan amount that could become payable under all plans.
US plan, which features a cash balance formula.
Pension benets are provided through a combination of tax-qualied and non-qualied benefit Other benets restoration plans, consistent with US tax regulations as applicable.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in regular employee benefit The Supplemental Executive Retirement benefit supplemental plans and in all-employee share saving schemes and savings plans plan is a non-qualied top-up arrangement that became effective on applying in their home countries.
Benets in kind are not pensionable.
1 January 2002 for US employees above a specified salary level.
The Expatriates may receive a resettlement allowance for a limited period.
benefit formula is 1.3% of final average earnings, which comprise base Mr Inglis is currently based in Houston, US, and the company provides salary and bonus in accordance with standard US practice and as accommodation in London.
specified under the qualied arrangement, multiplied by years of service.
b Additional pension earned during the year includes an inflation increase of 4.4% for UK directors and 2.3% for US directors.
c Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
d Dr Allen is due to retire on 31 March 2008 and will be entitled to take an immediate unreduced pension.
The figures in the table relate to 2007 and so do not include anticipated incremental cost of the unreduced pension 1.36 million.
Includes equivalent plans in which the individual participated prior to joining the board.
b BPs performance is measured against the oil sector.
For the 2005-2007 and subsequent awards, the performance condition is TSR measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron other than the portion of Lord Brownes award that relates to leadership measures.
Each performance period ends on 31 December of the third year.
c Represents awards of shares made at the end of the relevant performance period based on performance achieved under rules of the plan.
d On appointment to the board on 1 February 2007. e Awards under 2007-2009 plan lapsed for Lord Browne and Mr Manzoni on leaving.
During 2007, the highest market prices were 6.34 and $79.70 respectively and the lowest market prices were 5.07 and $58.80 respectively.
BPA BP Amoco share option plan, which applied to US executive directors prior to the adoption of the EDIP.
EDIP Executive Directors Incentive Plan adopted by shareholders in April 2005 as described on page 67.
EXEC Executive Share Option Scheme.
These options were granted to the relevant individuals prior to their appointments as directors and are not subject to performance conditions.
SAR Stock Appreciation Rights under BP America Inc. Share Appreciation Plan.
SAYE Save As You Earn employee share scheme.
b Closing market price for information.
Shares were retained when exercised.
c Numbers shown are ADSs under option.
One ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
d On appointment to the board on 1 February 2007. e On leaving the board on 1 May 2007. f On leaving the board on 31 August 2007.
Dr B E Grote 7 Aug 2000 $1,300,000 A G Inglis 1 Feb 2007 650,000 Executive directors external appointments The board encourages executive directors to broaden their knowledge Service contracts are expressed to expire at a normal retirement age of and experience by taking up appointments outside the company.
Each 60 subject to age discrimination.
The contracts have a notice period of executive director is permitted to accept one non-executive appointment, one year.
from which they may retain any fee.
External appointments are subject The service contracts of UK directors may be terminated by the to agreement by the chairman and must not conict with a directors company at any time with immediate effect on payment in lieu of notice duties and commitments to BP.
equivalent to one years salary or the amount of salary that would have During the year, the fees received by executive directors for external been paid if the contract had terminated on the expiry of the remainder appointments were as follows: of the notice period.
In the event of the early termination Unilever NV E45,000 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ of any of the contracts by the company, other than for cause or under A G Inglis BAE Systems 39,661 a specic termination payment provision, the relevant directors thencurrent salary and benets would be taken into account in calculating any liability of the company.
Remuneration committee Since January 2003, new service contracts include a provision to allow All the members of the committee are independent non-executive for severance payments to be phased, when appropriate.
Throughout the year, Dr Julius chairman, Mr Davis, will also consider mitigation to reduce compensation to a departing Sir Tom McKillop and Sir Ian Prosser were members.
Mr Bryan retired director, when appropriate to do so.
The group chief executive at the time was consulted on matters relating to the other executive directors who report Directors leaving the board to him and on matters relating to the performance of the company: 2007 he was not present when matters affecting his own remuneration Both Lord Browne and Mr Manzoni, who were employed by the were discussed.
company under service contracts dated 11 November 1993 and 29 January 2003 respectively, left the company during the year.
Lord Tasks Browne, who left on 1 May 2007, was eligible for an ex gratia lump The remuneration committees tasks are: sum superannuation payment equal to one years salary 1,575,000 To determine, on behalf of the board, the terms of engagement and but, in light of his resignation, did not receive the compensation for remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive directors loss of ofce previously notied to shareholders.
Mr Manzoni, who and to report on these to the shareholders.
left on 31 August 2007, was entitled to one years salary 485,000 To determine, on behalf of the board, matters of policy over which as compensation on termination in accordance with his contractual the company has authority regarding the establishment or operation entitlement.
Both individuals were eligible for a pro-rata bonus for 2007, of the companys pension scheme of which the executive directors reecting achievement of bonus targets and their period of employment are members.
As regards long-term incentives, both individuals retain To nominate, on behalf of the board, any trustees or directors of their performance awards under the EDIP in respect of 2005-2007 and corporate trustees of the scheme.
2006-2008 share element and these will vest at the normal time to the To review the policies being applied by the group chief executive in extent the performance targets are met.
Both individuals forfeited their remunerating senior executives other than executive directors to participation in the 2007-2009 share element.
Further details of these ensure alignment and proportionality.
awards are set out in the table on page 69.
Both individuals retained their outstanding share options, as set out in the table on page 70.
Constitution and operation In connection with the shareholder derivative actions brought in the US Each member of the remuneration committee is subject to annual reagainst the directors of the company, the company has agreed with the election as a director of the company.
The board considers all committee plaintiffs in the Alaska action, with the consent of Lord Browne and members to be independent see page 75.
Mr Manzoni, to defer the release of certain amounts and preserved share They have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, awards to those individuals other than Lord Brownes ex gratia in the committees decisions.
superannuation payment pending resolution of the action.
The company The committee met six times in the period under review.
There was a has agreed to pay the individuals simple interest at the rate of 6.5% in full attendance record.
Mr Sutherland, as chairman of the board, attended respect of the period of deferral.
The committee is accountable to shareholders through its annual report on executive directors remuneration.
It will consider the outcome of the vote at the AGM on the directors remuneration report and take into account the views of shareholders in its future decisions.
The committee values its dialogue with major shareholders on remuneration matters.
Filename: U54368 doc4.3d Time: 14:49:47 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -2051153009 72 Advice Part 3: Non-executive directors remuneration Advice is provided to the committee by the company secretarys ofce, which is independent of executive management and reports to the chairman of the board.
Mr Aronson, an independent consultant, is the Policy committees secretary and special adviser.
Advice was also received The board sets the level of remuneration for all non-executive directors from Mr Jackson, the company secretary.
within a limit approved from time to time by shareholders.
In accordance The committee also appoints external advisers to provide specialist with BPs board governance principles, the remuneration of the chairman advice and services on particular remuneration matters.
The is set by the board rather than by the remuneration committee, as the independence of the advice is subject to annual review.
performance of the chairman is seen as a matter for the board as a In 2007, the committee continued to engage Towers Perrin as its whole rather than any one committee.
Towers Perrin also provided limited ad-hoc Key elements of BPs non-executive director remuneration policy remuneration and benets advice to parts of the group, principally include: changes in employee share plans and some market information on Remuneration should be sufficient to attract and retain world-class pay structures.
Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer provided legal advice on specic Remuneration of non-executive directors is set by the board and matters to the committee, as well as providing some legal advice to should be proportional to their contribution towards the interests the group.
Ernst & Young reviewed the calculations on the financial-based Remuneration practice should be consistent with recognized best targets that form the basis of the performance-related pay for executive practice standards for non-executive directors remuneration.
directors, that is, the annual bonus and share element awards described Remuneration should be in the form of cash fees, payable monthly.
on page 66, to ensure they met an independent, objective standard.
They Non-executive directors should not receive share options from the also provided audit, audit-related and taxation services for the group.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to establish a holding in BP shares of the equivalent value of one years base fee.
Remuneration review In 2007, an ad-hoc board committee was formed to review the structure and quantum of BP non-executive directors remuneration having previously been reviewed in 2004.
The committee considered the existing BP policy on non-executive directors remuneration and concluded that it should remain unchanged.
The committee evaluated non-executive director remuneration levels and trends in both the UK and internationally, using a number of external data sources.
Outside the UK, particular focus was given to the remuneration practices for non-executive directors in the US.
The committee also examined how the time commitment and workload for the board and its committees had changed in the three years since the previous review.
Following the review, the committee proposed a revised structure and level of remuneration for BP non-executive directors.
Key changes included: Increases to the fees for the chairman and deputy chairman senior independent director to reect the market rates paid for those positions in companies of comparable size to BP.
The introduction of a at fee for membership of the audit, the safety, ethics and environment assurance, the remuneration and the nomination committees but not the chairmans committee to reect the increased time commitment for board committees over the past three years.
An increase in the fee for the chairmen of the audit committee and SEEAC to reect the increase in time commitment and market rates for those committees.
Consideration was also given to abolishing the transatlantic attendance allowance, but the committee concluded that this would be to the detriment of non-executives based outside Europe, who would not otherwise be compensated for the additional travel time required for UK meetings.
Changes to the structure and an increase to the level of non-executive directors fees were approved by the board and became effective 1 November 2007.
Filename: U54368 doc4.3d Time: 14:49:47 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1662787820 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 73 Fee structure In 2002, the board revised its policy with respect to superannuation The table below shows the revised fee structure for non-executive gratuities so that: directors.
Non-executive directors appointed to the board after 1 July 2002 would not be eligible for consideration for such a payment.
b Deputy chairman 100 120 The board made a superannuation gratuity of 21,000 during the year Board member 75 75 to Mr John Bryan, who retired in April 2007.
This payment was in line c Committee chairmanship at fee 20 with the policy arrangements agreed in 2002 and outlined above.
Audit committee and SEEAC chairmanship fees 30 Remuneration committee chairmanship fee 20 Non-executive directors of Amoco Corporation Transatlantic attendance allowance 5 5 Non-executive directors who were formerly non-executive directors of Committee membership fee 5 Amoco Corporation have residual entitlements under the Amoco NonEmployee Directors Restricted Stock Plan.
Directors were allocated a The chairman remains ineligible for committee chairmanship and membership fees restricted stock in remuneration for their service on the board of Amoco or transatlantic attendance allowance.
b The role of deputy chairman is combined with that of senior independent director.
Corporation prior to its merger with BP in 1998.
On merger, interests in The deputy chairman is still eligible for committee chairmanship fee and Amoco shares in the plan were converted into interests in BP ADSs.
The transatlantic attendance allowance plus any committee membership fees.
c restricted stock will vest on the retirement of the non-executive director Committee chairmen will not receive an additional membership fee for the committee they chair.
at the age of 70 or earlier at the discretion of the board.
Since the merger, no further entitlements have accrued to any director under the plan.
The residual interests, as interests in a long-term incentive scheme, a Remuneration of non-executive directors in 2007 are set out in the table below, in accordance with the Directors ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ thousand Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The awards were granted over Amoco stock prior to the merger but their notional weighted average Sir Ian Prosser 130 137 market value at the date of grant applying the subsequent merger ratio of 0.66167 P D Sutherland 500 517 of a BP ADS for every Amoco share was $27.87 per BP ADS.
If the director c retires prior to this date, the board may waive the restrictions.
J H Bryan 110 45 c Mr Bryan retired from the board on 12 April 2007.
He had received awards of Amoco shares under the plan between 25 April 1989 and 28 April 1998 prior to a This information has been subject to audit.
These interests had been converted into BP ADSs at the time of the b Appointed on 6 June 2007. merger.
In accordance with the terms of the plan, the board exercised its discretion c Also received a superannuation gratuity of 21,000. over this award on 12 April 2007 and the shares vested on that date when the BP ADS market price was $66.79 without payment by him.
No share or share option awards were made to any non-executive director in respect of service on the board during 2007.
Past directors Non-executive directors have letters of appointment, which Mr Miles who was a non-executive director of BP until April 2006 was recognize that, subject to the Articles of Association, their service appointed as a director and non-executive chairman of BP Pension is at the discretion of shareholders.
All directors stand for re-election Trustees Limited in October 2006 for a term of three years.
he received 150,000 for this role.
Superannuation gratuities Until 2002, BP maintained a long-standing practice whereby nonexecutive directors who retired from the board after at least six years service were eligible for consideration for a superannuation gratuity.
This directors remuneration report was approved by the board and The board was, and continues to be, authorized to make such payments signed on its behalf by David J Jackson, Company Secretary, on under the companys Articles of Association and the amount of the 22 February 2008. payment is determined at the boards discretion, having regard to the directors period of service as a director and other relevant factors.
