REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration strategy and policy: overview 50 per cent of the remuneration assuming on target British American Tobaccos remuneration policy continues performance should be performance-related or variable to seek to reward the achievement of corporate and in nature.
The remuneration package comprises both individual goals by linking success in those areas to the performance-based variable rewards cash and share Group strategy.
This includes taking a balanced approach incentive annual bonus plans: and the LTIP and core to achieving growth, improving productivity, managing fixed elements base salary, pension and other benefits.
the business in a responsible manner and developing The composition in the case of the Executive Directors a winning organisation, all of which help to build a for 2007 is illustrated in the bar chart on page 75. sustainable business.
The delivery of strategy is measured by the specific Key Performance Indicators KPIs and Remuneration strategy and policy: 2007 in focus comprehensive business measures set out and described The remuneration package for the senior executive on pages 12 and 13 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
team is built on a simple, straightforward model in which there are only two elements of variable pay, in The Remuneration Committee considers executive contrast to a number of FTSE 100 companies which may reward in the context of these measures of corporate operate two or, in a few cases, three different long term performance and the methodology is supported by incentive plans, in addition to an annual incentive plan.
a competitively positioned and integrated pay and The long term element is delivered through the long benefits structure which reflects the nature of the term incentive plan adopted last year 2007 LTIP which Groups worldwide operations and the need to attract, replaced the LTIP adopted in 1998 1998 LTIP which motivate and retain high quality executives.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Companys approach provides a clear message The alignment of executive remuneration to the to participants of what is required and is transparent generation of shareholder value has been a strong to shareholders.
and consistent theme for British American Tobacco for some time and its success is illustrated by the sustained The Committee continues to take a responsible approach performance of the Company.
The total shareholder to benchmarking and aims to set the reward opportunity return elements of the Companys long term incentive for Executive Directors within the market competitive plan LTIP, in particular the total shareholder return range, but with a balanced overall positioning.
measure which compares the Company against a peer During 2007, the Committee confirmed the use, for group of International FMCG companies, shows that benchmarking purposes, of an established peer group British American Tobacco has achieved a position of of selected FTSE 100 companies the Pay Comparator third, second and second against that comparator Group.
The Pay Comparator Group is reviewed annually group in respect of LTIP awards which vested or will and a company is included on the basis of its consumer vest in 2006, 2007 and 2008 respectively.
This emphasis goods focus, its international spread of operations and on performance and the alignment of reward with returns if it is considered as a competitor for top management to shareholders will continue to apply during 2008. talent.
The Pay Comparator Group has been in use for Variable and fixed remuneration a number of years to ensure that base salaries and The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine executive reward continue to be market competitive.
the framework and policy that apply to the terms of The constituent companies in the Pay Comparator Group engagement including remuneration of the Chairman, as at 31 December 2007 are set out on page 74 in Table 6. the Executive Directors and the members of the In December 2007, as part of the preparatory work for Management Board.
It also determines the specific the Committees annual review of the salaries of the remuneration of each of them including awards Executive Directors and the members of the Management under share incentive schemes and pension scheme Board, the Committee agreed that, whilst the principles of participation and any compensation payments.
In the remuneration policy remained unchanged, additional determining and applying the framework and policy, reference points would also be considered in order to the Committee has a guideline that approximately 58 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 provide a robust decision-making framework for pay.
level at which the bonus is capped.
The specific On this basis, market data for companies in the FTSE 350 targets are not disclosed as they are considered to will also be considered when setting base salaries for be commercially sensitive.
2008, taking into account the relative size and complexity The performance points are calculated at the start of of the company, as well as practice in the FTSE 30 for the the year by reference to the type of target and projected purposes of evaluating total compensation.
performance in the context of the Groups annual budget.
Salary The Committee receives reports from internal functions The summary table on page 60 sets out the key policy to allow it to determine the extent to which performance elements for the salaries for the Executive Directors and measures have been achieved.
No elements of the the members of the Management Board.
Bonuses are equally delivered in cash and shares.
Similar principles are applied to the salaries of senior managers.
Below this level in the organisation, salary Awards made under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme scales are graded with reference to market conditions, the Deferred Scheme are in the form of free ordinary whilst individual salary increases are linked to shares in the Company which are normally held in trust performance.
for three years and no further performance conditions apply in that period.
In certain circumstances, participants During 2007, the Committee continued to recognise may forfeit the shares if they resign before the end of the that the requirements of recruitment or retention may three year period.
The Remuneration Committee is keen on occasion justify the payment of a salary outside the to encourage a culture of ownership of these awarded range regarded as appropriate for a particular position.
shares and, since April 2004, participants have received a cash sum equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax In addition to basic salary, the Executive Directors and position of all unvested ordinary shares held in the members of the Management Board receive certain Deferred Scheme at the dividend record date.
benefits in kind, principally a car or car allowance as well as private medical and personal accident insurance.
The The Committee, following its usual procedures, reviewed Executive Directors also receive the benefit of the use the performance targets for the year ended 31 December of a driver.
2007 and details of the performance-related bonus payments resulting from that review are included on Executive Directors performance-related bonus plans page 69 in Table 1, in the year to which they relate.
Details of the International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS are shown in the summary table on page 60.
The As part of the year end review, the Committee considered IEIS aims to reward short term performance within the the current annual bonus opportunity for the Executive context of longer term sustainability and comprises Directors and Management Board against market both a cash and a deferred shares element.
The bonus practice, taking into account the total compensation entitlements and awards to the Executive Directors and opportunity for comparable roles in the Pay Comparator members of the Management Board under the IEIS Group and the FTSE 30.
As a result of this review, the depend upon the performance of the business.
Committee agreed to increase the maximum bonus Demanding targets are set by the Remuneration opportunity for these roles for 2008 as set out below.
Committee at the beginning of each year and are The equivalent percentages for 2007 are shown in the measured in terms of both financial and business table in brackets.
The targets reflect the five common On-target bonus Maximum bonus measures referred to in the summary table below.
These Role % % are identified as being key to sustained performance and Chief Executive 100 100 200 150 have an equal weighting of 20 per cent.
Payouts for each Finance Director 90 100 180 150 target are determined on a sliding scale with three Chief Operating Officer 90 100 180 150 performance points: threshold which must be exceeded Management Board 67.5 67 135 100 to attract a bonus : target: and maximum amount the Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 59 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Summary remuneration policy for Executive Directors and the Management Board Remuneration constituents Purpose Delivery Policy competitively cash annual review or on a significant change of Base salary reward responsibilities with salary changes effective from April monthly individual benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using a pensionable performance company size and complexity model coupled with: reflect skills and 1 the Pay Comparator Group with a mainly international experience consumer goods focus chosen from the FTSE 100 Index: and 2 published salary data for FTSE 350 companies Management Board members are reviewed on the Pay Comparator Group and salary data for FTSE 30 companies  the International Executive Incentive five common measures: underlying operating profit, attainment of Scheme IEIS market share of key players, Global Drive Brand volume, related bonus corporate net revenue and cash flow annual, non-pensionable payments targets on an and awards for 2007, the on target bonus opportunity for annual basis Executive Directors was 100 per cent of the base salary 50 per cent cash with a maximum award of 150 per cent of salary 50 per cent shares Deferred Share for the Management Board the on target bonus Bonus Scheme DSBS opportunity was 67 per cent of the base salary with DSBS shares held in trust for three a maximum award of 100 per cent of salary years and participants receive cash following a review of market practice, the structure of the sum equivalent to the dividend on bonus has been adjusted for 2008 as set out on page 59, the after-tax position of all unvested with an increase to the maximum bonus opportunity for shares held in the DSBS at the Executive Director and Management Board roles dividend record date incentivise awards of shares maximum annual award of 300 per cent of salary Long term growth in incentives variable due to performance during 2007, an award of 250 per cent of salary was earnings per over three year period made to the Chief Executive and 200 per cent of salary 2007 LTIP share and total to the Finance Director and the Chief Operating Officer discretionary annual award shareholder members of the Management Board received awards LTIP dividend equivalent return TSR of 150 per cent of salary over a three the proportion of shares awarded cash LTIP Dividend Equivalent to the dividends that year period under an LTIP award which later participants would have received as shareholders from lapse upon the vesting of an award the date of the LTIP award to the awards vesting date do not attract the LTIP dividend equivalent the value of the LTIP Dividend Equivalent is taken into account when considering awards three year performance period TSR performance 50 per cent of the total award combines both the share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period as against two comparator groups 25 per cent for each measure : 1 the constituents of the FTSE 100 Index: and 2 a peer group of FMCG companies earnings per share measure 50 per cent of the total award relates to earnings per share growth on an adjusted diluted basis relative to inflation 1 Pension provision of British American Tobacco UK pension accrues at 40 of annual basic salary competitive Pension Fund: defined benefit plan normal pensionable age of 60 post-retirement up to April 2005 2 maximum pension payable will not exceed 3 of base benefits benefit paid as on-going pension salary averaged over the preceding 12 months UK Pension Fund retains a scheme-specific cap following the introduction of the new UK pension regime in April 2006 excess benefits continue to be accrued within an unfunded unapproved retirement benefits scheme 60 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 Shareholding guidelines up to a monthly limit of 250.
Options are normally The Remuneration Committee continues to promote its granted at a discount of 20 per cent to the market price shareholding guidelines under which Executive Directors at the time of the invitation, as permitted under the rules and members of the Management Board are encouraged of the Sharesave Scheme.
At 31 December 2007, all the to work towards holding ordinary shares in the Company.
Executive Directors participated in the Sharesave Scheme, Since 2003, the guidelines were set at one times base each saving the maximum monthly amount.
salary for Executive Directors and 0.75 times base salary The Sharesave Scheme was renewed for a further 10 years for the Management Board.
following the requisite approval of the shareholders at the As part of the annual review, the Committee decided 2007 Annual General Meeting.
The rules of the renewed that the share holding guidelines should be made more Sharesave Scheme are substantially unchanged.
The demanding by excluding shares earned but not yet vested Sharesave Scheme, in its renewed and amended form, under Company share plans.
In addition, the Committee has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs.
increased the shareholding guidelines to two times base Employee Share Ownership Plan salary for the Chief Executive, one and a half times base The Employee Share Ownership Plan is an HM Revenue salary for the Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer & Customs approved share incentive plan.
The Company and one times base salary for the Management Board.
continues to operate its Partnership Share Scheme as a The interests of the Directors of the Company in the part of this plan.
The Partnership Share Scheme is open ordinary shares of the Company are shown on page 70 to all eligible employees, including Executive Directors.
Employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares in British American Tobacco.
The Share incentive schemes and share options maximum amount that can be allocated in this way The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the is 1,500 in any year.
Shares purchased are held in following employee share schemes which are designed a UK-based trust, normally capable of transfer to to incentivise employees of the Group by giving them participants tax-free after a five year holding period.
opportunities to build a shareholding in the Company: At 31 December 2007, all the Executive Directors the British American Tobacco Sharesave Scheme participated in the Partnership Share Scheme, each Sharesave Scheme, the Employee Share Ownership investing the maximum monthly contribution.
Executive Directors have also The Company also operates the Free Shares element participated in the British American Tobacco Share of the plan, known as the Share Reward Scheme.
Under Option Scheme Share Option Scheme and in line this Scheme, eligible employees including Executive with current policy, no options have been granted Directors receive an appropriation of shares in April of to Executive Directors or other participants under the each year in which the Scheme operates in respect of Share Option Scheme since March 2004.
The Share performance in the previous financial year.
In this way, Option Scheme will expire in April 2008 and there an award will be made on 1 April 2008 in respect of is no intention to renew it.
the year ended 31 December 2007, subject to the All benefits under the employee share schemes are performance conditions being met.
The performance non-transferable and non-pensionable.
conditions are aligned to those set for the IEIS in respect of the same performance period.
The plan shares are Sharesave Scheme held in a UK-based trust for a minimum period of three Eligible employees, including the Executive Directors, years and during that time the trust will exercise its have been granted employee savings-related share voting rights as directed by the plans participants.
The options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company.
maximum individual award under the Share Reward In November 2007, the Company made a further grant Scheme is 3,000.
The former forfeiture restrictions of options under the Sharesave Scheme which allows applicable during the holding period for Free Shares for options granted to be exercisable in conjunction were removed by the Company from April 2007. with either a three year or five year savings contract Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 61 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Share Option Scheme have been entitled to receive a cash payment equivalent No options have been granted under the Share Option to the value of the dividends that they would have Scheme since March 2004 and no options have been received as shareholders on their vesting awards the LTIP granted to the current Executive Directors since Dividend Equivalent.
The value of the LTIP Dividend September 1999.
The Share Option Scheme expires Equivalent is taken into account when considering awards in April 2008 and will not be renewed.
During the year under an LTIP and continues to be important in aligning ended 31 December 2007, the one Executive Director further the interests of senior management with those of Paul Rayner who held outstanding options under the shareholders.
This is illustrated by the release of the first Share Option Scheme exercised in full those options LTIP Dividend Equivalent payments in tandem with the which had been granted to him prior to his appointment vesting of the 2005 LTIP award in May 2008.
As at 31 December 2007, no expected values of those payments for the Executive Executive Directors hold outstanding options under Directors are shown in note 5 to Table 5 on page 74. the Share Option Scheme.
To the extent that the performance conditions have During the life of the Share Option Scheme, options been satisfied following assessment by the Remuneration granted were not issued at a discount to the market price Committee, awards are normally exercisable between at the time of grant, with the value of options for that three and 10 years after they have been made.
An award grant being limited to 50 per cent of a participants base of shares lapses to the extent that the performance salary.
All outstanding options have matured and are conditions are not satisfied in accordance with the exercisable up to March 2014. measures set out above at the end of the three year performance period.
2007 LTIP The 2007 LTIP is the current share incentive plan in which Performance all the Executive Directors, members of the Management Awards are based on a combination of total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS performance Board and senior employees participate.
This plan conditions measured over three years.
The Remuneration provides for awards of free ordinary shares, provided Committee considers that both of these measures are certain demanding and stretching performance widely accepted and understood benchmarks of a conditions are met over a three year period.
Together they provide a good award under the 2007 LTIP was made in May 2007. spread of measures relevant to the Groups business and The summary table above on page 60, sets out the key market conditions as well as giving a balance between the parameters of the plan.
aspirations of the Executive Directors, the members of the Management Board and shareholders.
These performance Award levels conditions are stated in the summary table above and During 2007, awards were increased from previous levels considered in more detail below.
to 250 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive, 200 per cent of base salary for the Finance Director and TSR performance condition the Chief Operating Officer and 150 per cent of base A total of 50 per cent of the total award is based on the salary for members of the Management Board, in order Companys TSR performance against two comparator to position the total packages appropriately against the groups 25 per cent for each measure : 1 the market.
constituents of the London Stock Exchanges FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period: and The maximum annual award under the rules of the 2007 2 a peer group of International Fast Moving Consumer LTIP is 300 per cent of base salary.
25 per cent of the total award The Committee continues to review the application of this vests in full in the event of upper quartile performance by limit in the context of its policy overall.
the Company relative to one of the comparator groups above, not more than 7.5 per cent of the total award will For awards made since 2005 initially under the 1998 LTIP vest in the event of median performance and with pro rata and from May 2007 under the 2007 LTIP, participants 62 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 vesting between these two points.
The TSR portions of an These targets are in line with and support British American LTIP award would not vest for below median performance.
Tobaccos strategy to deliver high single-digit EPS growth on average over the medium to long term.
The These comparator groups, which are kept under review maximum target would require 8 per cent per annum to ensure that they will remain both relevant and growth in earnings ahead of inflation and is considered representative, are chosen to reflect, as far as possible, the to be very demanding.
The Remuneration Committee Companys financial and business trading environments.
will keep these targets under review to ensure that they TSR continues to be measured according to the return continue to be appropriately stretching.
index calculated by Datastream and reviewed by the 1998 LTIP Companys independent advisers.
It is measured on the Following the adoption of the 2007 LTIP, no further basis that all companies dividends are reinvested in the awards will be made under the 1998 LTIP.
However, shares of those companies.
The return is the percentage it is necessary to report on the vesting of the award increase in each companys index over the three year made in 2005. performance period.
The opening and closing indices for this calculation are respectively the average of the index Vesting of 2005 LTIP award numbers for the last quarter preceding the performance As reported last year, 100 per cent of the 2004 LTIP period and for the last quarter of the final year of that award vested on 17 March 2007.
The seventh LTIP award performance period this methodology is employed was made in 2005, with the performance period being to reflect movements of the indices over that time as completed at 31 December 2007.
The Remuneration accurately as possible.
Committee has assessed the performance of British American Tobacco against the two performance TSR continues to be measured on a local currency conditions outlined above and has determined that basis.
This approach is considered to have the benefits 100 per cent of the award will vest.
On the TSR measure, of simplicity and directness of comparison with the the Company ranked eighth out of the FTSE 100 group performance of the comparator companies, and is in line of companies, giving a vesting of 25 per cent for with the historic approach taken by the Remuneration performance at the upper quartile.
A vesting of 25 per cent Committee for the purposes of TSR measurement.
was achieved for ranking second out of the peer group of International FMCG companies, this being upper quartile.
EPS performance condition EPS growth was 9.92 per cent per annum in excess of 50 per cent of an award is based on earnings per share inflation resulting in a vesting of 50 per cent.
Members of growth relative to inflation.
This element of the award will the FMCG group for the 2005 award vesting in May 2008 vest fully if EPS growth over the three year performance are set out on page 74 in Table 7. period is an average of at least 8 per cent per annum in excess of inflation: not more than 10 per cent of this Performance graph element will vest if the same figure is at least 3 per cent Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 requires that in excess of inflation and an award will vest on a pro rata the Company must provide a graph comparing the TSR basis between these two points.
The EPS portion of an performance of a hypothetical holding of shares in the award would not vest below these points.
Company with a broad equity market index over a five year period.
In this context, the Directors have again Growth in EPS for these purposes is calculated on chosen to illustrate the performance of TSR against the an adjusted diluted EPS basis using a formula which FTSE 100 Index over a five year period, commencing on incorporates: 1 the adjusted diluted EPS for the year 1 January 2003.
In the opinion of the Directors, the FTSE prior to the start of the first performance period and then 100 Index is the most appropriate index against which for the first, second and third years of that performance TSR should be measured because it is a widely used and period: and 2 retail price index RPI for the last month understood index of broadly similar sized UK companies of the year immediately preceding the performance to the Company.
The performance graph is shown on period and then the RPI for the respective first, second page 75. and third years of that performance period.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 63 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS REMUNERATION REPORT continued In addition to the performance graph, illustrative graphs ordinary shares to satisfy the future vesting or exercise of that show the relative position on the TSR measures for the options and awards.
The loan to BATGET amounted to LTIP award vesting in May 2008 are shown on page 75.
The loan will be repaid from the proceeds of the exercise LTIPs change of control of options.
If the options lapse, ordinary shares may be The rules of the 1998 LTIP and the 2007 LTIP both sold by BATGET to cover the loan repayment or, in the provide that in the event of a change of control of the case of ordinary shares acquired by BATGET to satisfy Company as a result of a takeover, reconstruction or the vesting and exercise of awards, the Company will winding up of the Company not being an internal subsequently waive the loan provided over the life of reorganisation, LTIP awards will become exercisable for the awards.
a limited period based on the period of time which has elapsed since the date of the award and the achievement BATGET currently waives dividends on the ordinary of the performance conditions at that date, unless the shares held by it.
As at 31 December 2007, BATGET Remuneration Committee determines this not to be held 13,987,584 ordinary shares with a market value appropriate in the circumstances.
In addition, the 2007 of 274.9 million 1 January 2007: 19,252,345 ordinary LTIP allows as an alternative to early release that shares: 275.1 million.
BATGET waived payment of participants may, if permitted, exchange their LTIP awards the final dividend for 2006 of 7.5 million in May 2007 for new awards of shares in the acquiring company on and the interim dividend for 2007 of 2.7 million in a comparable basis.
Options and awards outstanding: Employee Share Where shares held in BATGET have been transferred out to share scheme participants, the participants may Ownership Trust exercise their voting rights.
Where shares are held by To satisfy the future exercise of options or awards under BATGET and have not been transferred out to the the Groups employee share schemes, ordinary shares are participants, the trustee of BATGET does not exercise acquired in the market by an existing employee share any voting rights.
ownership trust the British American Tobacco Group Employee Trust BATGET.
During the year, new ordinary Details of the Companys material share-based payment shares were issued by the Company in relation to the arrangements, reflecting both equity share-based and Sharesave Scheme and to certain participants in the Share cash-settled share-based arrangements, are set out in Option Scheme resident outside the UK.
Under the Sharesave Scheme, a total of 1,608,514 options Executive Directors pension benefits over ordinary shares in the Company were outstanding Details of the basic pension entitlements are shown in at 31 December 2007.
The options outstanding under the summary table on page 60.
The Executive Directors the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable until June 2013 with the exception of Antonio Monteiro fide Castro up to at option prices ranging from 510p to 1435p.
31 December 2007 and Nicandro Durante from 1 January 2008 are, like other employees, eligible for membership BATGET is used to satisfy the future exercise of options of the British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund under the Share Option Scheme and the vesting and Pension Fund.
exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the Deferred Scheme, and the 1998 LTIP and the 2007 LTIP The Pension Fund, for members who joined before respectively.
The number of shares held in BATGET to 1 April 2005, is a non-contributory defined benefit satisfy outstanding awards is consistently monitored by scheme and includes provision for spouses benefits a committee of senior management that reports to a on death in service or after retirement.
In the event of committee of the Board.
BATGET is funded by interestdeath in service, a spouses pension equal to half of the free loan facilities from the Company totalling 300 members prospective pension at normal retirement age million, enabling the trust to facilitate the purchase of 64 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
A spouses pension payable in the These unfunded commitments are included in the event of death after retirement is equal to half of the provisions referred to on page 113 note 12 to the members full pension, irrespective of any decision to accounts.
exchange part of the benefit for a lump sum.
The early Paul Rayner has an accumulated defined contribution retirement rules in the Pension Fund permit a member entitlement from Division A of the British American to draw the accrued retirement pension within five years Tobacco Australia Superannuation Fund.
No contributions of normal retirement age without actuarial reduction, were paid to this arrangement on behalf of Paul Rayner subject to the employing companys agreement.
Alternatively, an Executive Director may choose to retire at any time on or after his or her 50th birthday without Antonio Monteiro fide Castro retired as an Executive the employing companys agreement, subject to a Director on 31 December 2007.
Details of his pension reduction as determined by the Pension Fund trustee in entitlements are set out in note 5 to Table 4 on page 72. conjunction with the Pension Fund actuary.
Accrual rates Nicandro Durante, who was appointed an Executive differ according to individual circumstances but do not Director with effect from 1 January 2008, is a member exceed one-fortieth of pensionable salary for each year of the Fundacao Albino Souza Cruz in Brazil.
This is a of pensionable service.
non-contributory defined benefit scheme and includes Pensionable pay covers basic salary only and therefore a spouses death in service benefit equal to 37.5 per cent bonus awards and the value of benefits in kind are not of the members prospective pension at normal retirement pensionable.
Accrual rates do not exceed 1.85 per cent of basic salary excluding bonus averaged over the last 12 months Paul Adams and Paul Rayner both joined the Pension to normal retirement age, for each year of pensionable Fund after 1989.
As a result, prior to 6 April 2006, both service.
Nicandro Durantes pension will be reviewed individuals were subject to the HM Revenue & Customs by the Company annually with reference to the salary cap on pensionable earnings notionally 112,800 for the of that of a General Manager of Souza Cruz SA which will tax year 2007 08.
In addition, each has an unfunded increase annually in line with local practice.
In addition, pension promise from the Company in respect of earnings Nicandro Durante accrues a pension of 0.65 per cent above the cap on an equivalent basis to the benefits for each year of service based on his 12-month average provided by the Pension Fund.
This is provided through UK basic salary excluding bonus with effect from membership of an unfunded unapproved retirement 1 March 2006, that being the date of his appointment benefit scheme.
as a member of the Management Board.
This benefit is provided through the unfunded unapproved retirement However, following the changes in pensions legislation in benefit scheme.
2006, it was agreed that benefits up to 75,000 per annum targeting the Lifetime Allowance would be provided Executive Directors service contracts through the Pension Fund with the remainder of benefits The Remuneration Committee continues to operate a being provided through the unfunded arrangement.
As policy of one year rolling contracts for Executive Directors.
a result, the Company paid an additional amount to the Each Executive Director has such a contract, executed at Pension Fund in 2006 to fund the additional benefits the time of his original appointment.
The contract may up to a maximum of 75,000 per annum.
The overall be re-executed during the term of his employment to pension entitlement for each of the Executive Directors take account of variations in terms and conditions as well remained unchanged.
Paul Adams and Paul Rayner, being as changes in best practice: the contractual term will members of the Pension Fund, are entitled to receive continue to be of a one year rolling period.
Most recently, increases in their pensions in line with price inflation up in February 2007, the service contracts for each of Paul to 6 per cent per annum.
Adams, Paul Rayner and Antonio Monteiro fide Castro, were revised to principally take account of the new age discrimination legislation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 65 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS REMUNERATION REPORT continued In addition, the Remuneration Committee maintains External appointments discretion in respect of this policy for those future Executive Directors and members of the Management Executive Directors who may be recruited externally Board are able to accept one substantive external Board or from overseas, when it may be appropriate to offer appointment provided that permission is respectively a contract with an initial period of longer than one year, sought from the Board or Chairman.
Since 1 January reducing to a one year rolling contract after the expiry 2006, the fees from such appointments have been of the initial period.
It is the policy that an Executive retained for a Directors own account, thereby recognising Directors one year rolling contract incorporates a the increasing level of personal commitment and provision for a termination or compensation payment expertise required for non-executive roles.
Paul Rayner in lieu of notice.
is currently a Non-Executive Director of Centrica plc and the fees from this appointment for the year ended An Executive Directors compensation payment, in lieu 31 December 2007 totalled 74,500. of notice, would comprise: 1 12 months salary at his then current base pay: and 2 a cash payment in respect Antonio Monteiro fide Castro has been a British American of other benefits under the contract such as medical Tobacco designated Non-Executive Director of Reynolds insurance, or the Company may at its option continue American Inc. RAI since 30 July 2004.
In that time, those benefits for a 12 month period.
The Committee RAI has paid British American Tobacco an annual fee maintains discretion as to how to deal with any grants or in respect of Antonio Monteiro fide Castros services to awards made prior to termination under the Share Option RAI a BAT Designee.
For the year ended 31 December 2007, the annual fee paid to the Company by RAI was Scheme if appropriate, the Deferred Scheme and the US$237,000.
Following his retirement as an Executive long term incentive plans.
Pension entitlements are dealt Director on 31 December 2007, Antonio Monteiro fide with in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Castro will remain a BAT Designee from 1 January 2008 applicable pension scheme and do not form part of the and will receive an annual fee of US$237,000 from RAI, contractual compensation payment.
payable in equal quarterly instalments.
The compensation payment is payable where the requisite Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment 12 months notice is not given to the Executive Director The Non-Executive Directors do not have service or when he terminates by giving 12 months notice and contracts with the Company but instead have letters the Company does not wish him to serve his notice.
For Non-Executive Directors appointed period of notice is served, the compensation payment is before 1 October 2007, the terms of appointment of reduced pro rata.
In the unlikely event that the contract each such Director provide that he or she is appointed is terminated for cause such as gross misconduct, the for a specified term, being an initial period to the next Company may terminate the contract with immediate Annual General Meeting after appointment and, subject effect and therefore no compensation payment would to reappointment at that meeting, for a further period be payable.
ending at the Annual General Meeting held three years Nicandro Durante, who was appointed Chief Operating thereafter.
Subsequent reappointment is subject to Officer with effect from 1 January 2008, has a service endorsement by the Board and the approval of contract with the Company in the form outlined above.
In addition, as a result of the application of local labour Following the implementation of the relevant provisions laws in Brazil, Nicandro Durante retains certain of the Companies Act 2006, an appointment of a Nontermination or compensation rights in respect of his Executive Director made by the Company from 1 October former employment with Souza Cruz SA.
In the event of 2007 is made on the basis of a two year term: such any compensation being payable to Nicandro Durante appointment being subject to approval by shareholders pursuant to his service contract with the Company, these in accordance with the terms of the provisions of the Souza Cruz rights will be taken into account first in Companys Articles of Association relating to the rotation arriving at a final compensation amount.
66 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 The date of appointment and most recent reappointment Ken Clarke will retire from the Board at the conclusion of is shown below for each Non-Executive Director: the Companys Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2008 Date of last and will therefore cease to be the Deputy Chairman and reappointment Chairman of the Corporate Social Responsibility and the at Annual Date of appointment General Meeting Remuneration Committees.
In light of these changes, 1 K H Clarke 28 April 1998 28 April 2005 the Board has agreed that the annual fees for the R E Lerwill 1 January 2005 26 April 2007 Non-Executive Directors will be as follows with effect A M Llopis 24 February 2003 27 April 2006 from 1 May 2008 : Senior Independent Director 100,000: C J M Morin-Postel 1 October 2007 Non-Executive Directors 75,000 with an additional A Ruys 1 March 2006 27 April 2006 25,000 being payable to the Chairman of the Audit Sir Nicholas Scheele 28 February 2005 26 April 2007 Committee an increase of 5,000 and additional fees K M A fide Segundo 1 October 2007 of 20,000 being payable to each of the respective Chairs M H Visser 1 April 2001 26 April 2007 of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and the Note: Remuneration Committee.
1 Kenneth Clarke is scheduled to retire at the conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors receive no other material pay or benefits with the exception of reimbursement of On termination, at any time, a Non-Executive Director is expenses incurred in respect of their duties as Directors entitled to any accrued but unpaid Directors fees but not of the Company.
It is the policy of the Board that the to any other compensation.
spouses of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy Directors may accompany the Directors for business The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined purposes on designated trips and functions during by the Board, on the recommendation of the Chairman the year.
and the Chief Executive, within the overall aggregate Chairmans terms of appointment and remuneration annual limit of 2,000,000 authorised by shareholders The Remuneration Committee is responsible for with reference to the Companys Articles of Association.
determining the terms of engagement and fees payable In order to retain flexibility, as well as recognising the to the Chairman.
This process takes into account the increased demands made upon Non-Executive Directors breadth of that role coupled with its associated levels in terms of time and commitment, it is proposed that this of commitment and expertise.
Jan du Plessis terms of overall aggregate annual limit is increased to 2,500,000 appointment provide that he holds the office of Chairman as part of the proposed revision of the Companys Articles of the Company with effect from 1 July 2007 for a period of Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
of three years unless terminated earlier by: 1 the The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in Company giving three months notice or a discretionary discussions with the Board about their own remuneration.
compensation payment in lieu of notice: or 2 by the The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are Chairman giving one months written notice with the determined in light of market best practice and with Company having discretion to make a compensation reference to the time commitment and responsibilities payment in lieu of such notice.
The compensation associated with the roles.
In order to recognise the payment is limited to any fees which are payable for increased focus on the roles and responsibilities of the such part of the relevant notice period as the Board Non-Executive Directors and the need to ensure that the does not require the Chairman to perform his duties.
Company is able to continue to attract and retain high As a Director of the Company, the Chairman is subject calibre individuals to such non-executive roles, the fees to the reappointment of Directors provisions contained for the Non-Executive Directors were revised by the in the Companys Articles of Association.
The date of Board with effect from 1 January 2007 as follows: his last reappointment as a Director was at the Annual Deputy Chairman also the Senior Independent Director General Meeting held on 27 April 2006.
The terms of 165,000: Non-Executive Directors 75,000 with an Jan du Plessis appointment provide for: 1 an annual additional 20,000 being payable to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 67 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS REMUNERATION REPORT continued fee of 570,000: 2 the use of a driver: and 3 private Sir Nicholas Scheele and Karen fide Segundo appointed medical insurance and personal accident insurance.
Anthony Ruys will succeed Ken Clarke In common with the Non-Executive Directors, the as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee following Chairman does not participate in the British American Ken Clarkes retirement as a Non-Executive Director of Tobacco share schemes, bonus schemes or incentive the Company at the conclusion of the Annual General plans and is not a member of any Group pension plan.
Meeting of the Company on 30 April 2008.
Following the end of the year, the Committee reviewed The Secretary to the Committee is Nicola Snook, the the fees for the Chairman against practice in the FTSE 30 Company Secretary.
and agreed to increase his fees to 600,000 with effect No Executive Director or other member of the from 1 April 2008.
Management Board plays any part in determining Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts his or her remuneration.
During the year ended and the details of the terms of appointment of each 31 December 2007, the Chief Executive was consulted Non-Executive Director and the Chairman are available and invited to attend meetings of the Committee, except for inspection during normal business hours at the when his own remuneration was under consideration.
Companys registered office and will also be available In determining remuneration for the year, the Committee for inspection at the Annual General Meeting on consulted the Chief Executive, and the Director, Human 30 April 2008.
Resources and the Head of Reward.
The Chairman, Jan du Plessis, was also consulted and invited to attend meetings Appendices to the Remuneration Report of the Committee.
Further information on meetings held The Remuneration Committee and Directors attendance is disclosed in the corporate Terms of reference governance statement on page 77.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, The Committee appointed Towers Perrin as remuneration together with an explanation of its role and the authorities consultants, to provide remuneration services and advice delegated to it by the Board, are available from the to the Company for 2007 with specific reference to the Company Secretary on request and can be accessed needs of the Remuneration Committee.
Towers Perrin is on the corporate governance section of bat.
The a leading international firm of remuneration and benefits terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee consultants who also provide general consultancy services do not currently provide for the Committee to consider and advice to British American Tobacco Group companies corporate performance on environmental, social and around the world on pay, pensions and other human governance ESG issues when setting the reward resources related issues.
structure for Executive Directors and the members of the Management Board.
However, the Board continues With effect from 1 January 2008, Deloitte were appointed to recognise the importance of ESG issues.
Governance is to provide remuneration services and advice to the embedded in the organisation as evidenced by our strong Company for 2008 with specific reference to the needs of governance structure see pages 76 to 83.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee.
Deloitte is an international the delivery of our strategic vision encompasses the Key accountancy firm who provide remuneration and benefits Performance Indicator of Responsibility see pages 22 to and general consultancy services and advice to British 25 for which we have used the Dow Jones Sustainability American Tobacco Group companies around the world on Indexes an external benchmark as our primary business pay, pensions and other human resources related issues.
measure to assess our successful performance to date.
Herbert Smith LLP has also been retained by the Membership Company to provide legal advice in respect of the At the date of this report, the Committee comprises the Companys share schemes, as well as providing other following independent Non-Executive Directors of the legal services to British American Tobacco as a whole.
Company: Ken Clarke Chairman of the Remuneration In addition, Ernst & Young LLP provides tax advice to Committee : Robert Lerwill: Ana Maria Llopis: Christine international assignees and in respect of the Companys Morin-Postel appointed 1 October 2007 : Anthony Ruys: share schemes.
68 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
Karen fide Segundo and Christine Morin-Postel were appointed on 1 October 2007.
Antonio Monteiro fide Castro retired on 31 December 2007.
2 The deferred share bonus payments include cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested ordinary shares comprised in the awards held by participants including Executive Directors in the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme at each dividend record date.
For the year ended 31 December 2007, these payments for Executive Directors were as follows: Paul Adams 41,156 2006: 35,425 : Paul Rayner 27,770 2006: 23,862 : and Antonio Monteiro fide Castro 26,994 2006: 21,979.
Antonio Monteiro fide Castro received a cash award in respect of the performance of the Company in 2007 rather than an award of shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme as he ceased to be an employee before the date of the award in 2008.
3 Benefits in kind include: a a car or a car allowance: b use of a driver: c travel and other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions.
Non-Executive Directors receive benefits under c only.
4 Paul Rayners benefits in kind included payments in respect of family education 56,344 which followed his relocation to the UK from Australia.
5 Antonio Monteiro fide Castros benefits in kind included tax advice of 43,051 in respect of his former contractual arrangements up to 1 January 2004, prior to which date he derived his emoluments in both the UK and Brazil.
6 The Directors remuneration shown above does not include the illustrative value as at 25 February 2008 of the Executive Directors Long Term Incentive Plan awards made in May 2005 which will vest on 17 May 2008.
Reference should be made to note 4 to Table 5 on page 74.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 69 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Table 2.
2 The changes in Directors interests since 31 December 2007 relate to the purchase of shares pursuant to the Companys Partnership Share Scheme.
No Director had a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the Company at the dates stated in Table 2 above.
3 At 31 December 2007, Antonio Monteiro fide Castro also had an interest in 40,000 shares of no par value in the Common Stock of Souza Cruz SA of Brazil, the listed company in which British American Tobacco has a 75 per cent interest 1 January 2007: 100,000 shares.
4 In addition to the shares shown above, the Executive Directors have the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company which are held in trust pursuant to the British American Tobacco Deferred Share Bonus Scheme: Awarded Released At 6 At 1 Jan 2007 13 Mar 2007 20 Mar 2007 31 Dec 2007 P N Adams 118,611 46,083 46,011 118,683 P A Rayner 82,821 28,341 37,105 74,057 5 A Monteiro fide Castro 75,889 31,337 25,260 81,966 5 In the case of the unvested awards made to Antonio Monteiro fide Castro under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme, the Remuneration Committee agreed that these awards would vest in full immediately upon his retirement on 31 December 2007.
The shares comprised in these awards will transfer to Antonio Monteiro fide Castro no later than 31 March 2008.
6 The cost of these shares has been included as Directors emoluments in the prior year.
Details of the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme are given on page 60.
7 Based on the performance for 2007, the Executive Directors will each be awarded a number of ordinary shares to the value of 1,788 pursuant to an appropriation of shares under the Share Reward Scheme on 1 April 2008.
8 On 31 December 2007, the Groups employee share ownership trust referred to on page 64 held a total of 13,987,584 ordinary shares in the Company.
All participating employees, including the Executive Directors, are deemed to have a beneficial interest in these shares.
70 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT go online at www.
Executive Directors share options over British American Tobacco p. l. c. ordinary shares of 25p audited 3 At 1 Jan 2007 Granted in 2007 Exercised in 2007 At 31 Dec 2007 Dates from Latest number of shares Exercise price number of shares number of shares number of shares which exercisable expiry date P N Adams 1 Sharesave Scheme 2,492 663.0p 2,492 Jan 2010 Jun 2010 P A Rayner 1 Sharesave Scheme 3,447 480.0p 3,447 Jan 2007 Jun 2007 1,421 1,152.0p 1,421 Jan 2012 Jun 2012 Total 4,868 3,447 1,421 2 Share Option Scheme 1,398 500.0p 1,398 Sep 2002 Sep 2009 A Monteiro fide Castro 1 Sharesave Scheme 957 977.0p 957 Jan 2009 Jun 2009 Notes: 1 Sharesave Scheme: in respect of the Executive Directors, no options lapsed during the year ended 31 December 2007.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of these interests in share options during the year.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in conjunction with a three year or five year savings contract up to a monthly limit of 250.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20 per cent to the market price at the time of the invitation, as permitted under the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
Antonio Monteiro fide Castro retired on 31 December 2007 and his options lapsed in accordance with the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
2 Share Option Scheme: in respect of the Executive Directors, no options lapsed or were granted during the year ended 31 December 2007.
No consideration is payable for the grant of an option.
3 Aggregate gains on share options exercised by Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2007 were as follows: Number of Gain 5 Date of exercise Exercise price Market price options exercised P A Rayner Sharesave Scheme 5 March 2007 480.0p 1,570.0p 3,447 37,572 4 Share Option Scheme 8 May 2007 500.0p 1,579.0p 1,398 15,084 Aggregate gains on the exercise of share options 2007 52,656 Aggregate gains on the exercise of share options 2006 17,562 4 Performance conditions were applicable in respect of the options granted under the Share Option Scheme.
For options to be exercisable, the Companys published adjusted diluted earnings per share growth had to exceed inflation by 3 per cent per annum over any consecutive three year period during the 10 year life of the options.
5 The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 31 December 2007 was 1,965p and the range during the year was 1,434p to 1,996p.
The market price on 31 December 2007 exceeded the grant price of all the options detailed in Table 3 above.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 71 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Table 4.
Executive Directors pension entitlements audited The following Directors were members of defined benefit schemes provided by the Group during the year.
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the year: Total Gross Increase Transfer value Transfer value Transfer value accrued increase in in accrued of net increase of accrued of accrued Total change in pension at accrued pension net in accrual pension at pension at transfer value 1 2 3 3 3 Normal 31 Dec 2007 pension of inflation over period 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2007 during period retirement age P N Adams 60 438,325 59,447 44,120 849,678 7,345,334 8,441,347 1,096,013 P A Rayner 60 97,246 21,517 18,453 345,110 1,424,481 1,818,705 394,224 5 A Monteiro fide Castro 60 336,328 42,103 30,200 650,356 6,472,957 7,242,753 769,796 Notes: 1 The amount of total accrued pension is the pension that would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, excluding any increases granted under statute before retirement.
2 The value of net increase in accrued pension represents the incremental value to the Executive Director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption service terminated at the year end.
3 Changes in the transfer values reflect both individual Executive Directors circumstances such as the date of joining the Pension Fund and changes in salary during the year together with the application of market value adjustments in accordance with actuarial and legislative requirements.
During 2006, the Trustee of the Pension Fund revised the method and assumptions used to calculate transfer values.
Previously, transfer values were calculated in accordance with section 1.5 of version 9.2 of Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
Following a review of the transfer value basis, the Trustee agreed to increase the transfer value offered to members and these are now provided on the same basis used for the ongoing funding of the Pension Fund.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the Pension Fund would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the Pension Funds liability in respect of Executive Directors pension benefits.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Executive Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
Further, although Antonio Monteiro fide Castro is not a member of the Pension Fund, the transfer values calculated above have been calculated in accordance with the method used for the Pension Fund.
Although Paul Adams and Paul Rayner receive a significant element of their overall entitlement from an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme, the transfer values calculated above have been calculated in accordance with the method used for the Pension Fund.
4 The Pension Fund is non-contributory: voluntary contributions paid by Executive Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable by any Executive Director or past Executive Director of the Company.
5 Antonio Monteiro fide Castro retired from the Company on 31 December 2007 and became entitled to an overall pension based on an accrual rate of 2.5 per cent per annum in respect of years and completed months of service for the period 1 April 1989 to 31 December 2007 using a 12 month average salary.
In addition, 15 days leave paid in lieu were taken into account when assessing the pensionable salary.
This amounts to an additional 1,044 per annum.
The overall pension takes into account benefits paid and payable from a number of sources.
Antonio Monteiro fide Castro retired from the Fundacao Albino Souza Cruz pension scheme the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme in May 2005 and commenced receipt of his pension in accordance with the rules of that scheme.
For calculation purposes, the level of ongoing pension has been converted into sterling and amounts to 99,535 per annum.
Antonio Monteiro fide Castros accrual rate in the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme was 1.85 per cent per annum.
The value of benefits received by Antonio Monteiro fide Castro from the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme for the period May 2007 to December 2007 have, for calculation purposes, been converted into sterling and an equivalent pension and amount to 13,450 per annum.
Antonio Monteiro fide Castro became entitled to a pension in respect of his top-up benefit from the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme for the period January 1989 to May 2005 equivalent to 0.65 per cent of his pensionable salary.
The value of this benefit amounts to US$3.7 million and has been retained by Souza Cruz whilst Antonio Monteiro fide Castro continued to be employed by the Group.
This sum is now payable and for calculation purposes has been converted into sterling and an equivalent pension and amounts to 89,762 per annum.
In order to deliver the overall pension entitlement of 337,372 per annum, a top-up benefit amounting to 133,581 per annum is now payable which has been provided through an unfunded unapproved retirement scheme.
Antonio Monteiro fide Castro has been provided with the option of receiving a cost-neutral lump sum in lieu of the annual pension amounting to 2,124,400.
72 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT go online at www.
2 The vesting of the awards on 17 March 2007 was reported in the Companys Directors Report and Accounts 2006 showing illustrative vesting values based on the mid-market price of ordinary shares of 1,584p at 23 February 2007, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of that Report.
Antonio Monteiro fide Castro did not exercise the award made to him in March 2003 during 2007.
3 In respect of the awards outstanding for Antonio Monteiro fide Castro at the date of his retirement, the Remuneration Committee agreed that, in accordance with the rules of the 1998 LTIP and the 2007 LTIP, he would receive: 1 100 per cent of the award made in May 2005: 2 57.6 per cent of the March 2006 award 32,133 shares : and 3 31.9 per cent of the May 2007 award 27,650 shares.
The vested awards may be exercised by Antonio Monteiro fide Castro no later than 30 June 2008.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 73 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS REMUNERATION REPORT continued 4 The May 2005 award will vest on 17 May 2008 at 100 per cent in the manner described on page 63.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 25 February 2008, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was 1,874.0p, valuing the vesting awards as follows: Award Award Award vesting granted vesting illustrative number number value of shares of shares P N Adams 143,442 143,442 2,688,103 P A Rayner 65,091 65,091 1,219,805 A Monteiro fide Castro 72,324 72,324 1,355,352 Total 280,857 280,857 5,263,260 5 For awards made since 2005, participants have been entitled to receive a cash payment equivalent to the value of the dividends that they would have received as shareholders on their vesting awards the LTIP Dividend Equivalent.
The value of the LTIP Dividend Equivalent to be paid to Paul Adams and Paul Rayner, subject to the performance conditions being met, on the May 2005 awards shown above on the date of the payment of the final dividend 7 May 2008 are 242,560 and 110,069 respectively.
Antonio Monteiro fide Castro retired on 31 December 2007 and he will receive an LTIP Dividend Equivalent payment of 87,874.
6 The performance conditions applicable to the awards that vested on 17 March 2007 and will vest on 17 May 2008 relate to an apportionment between measures relating to total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share based criteria with reference to a three year performance period.
TSR combines both the share price and dividend performance of the Company as set against two comparator groups: a the FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period: and b a peer group of FMCG companies.
A total of 50 per cent of the total award is based upon each of two separate measures 25 per cent for each measure.
25 per cent of the total award vests in full in the event of upper quartile performance by the Company relative to one of the comparator groups, 7.5 per cent of the total award will vest in the event of median performance and then pro rata between these two points.
The earnings per share measure applies to 50 per cent of the award.
50 per cent of the award will vest if earnings per share growth over the three year performance period is an average of at least 8 per cent per annum in excess of inflation: 10 per cent will vest if the same figure is at least 3 per cent in excess of inflation and an award will vest pro rata between these two points.
Similar criteria attach to the awards made on 17 May 2005, 15 March 2006 and 15 May 2007.
7 There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of the LTIP interests during the year.
8 The awards made in March 2006 and May 2007 are due to vest in March 2009 and May 2010 respectively.
At 31 December 2007, the performance percentage reflecting performance to date, was 86.4 per cent for the March 2006 award and 95.7 per cent for the May 2007 award.
Pay comparator group AstraZeneca Diageo Reckitt Benckiser Tesco BP GlaxoSmithKline Reed Elsevier Unilever BT Group Imperial Tobacco Group Royal Dutch Shell Vodafone British Sky Broadcasting Marks & Spencer SABMiller WPP Group Cadbury Schweppes Pearson Scottish & Newcastle Table 7.
FMCG group For the 2005 award vesting in May 2008 Altadis Colgate-Palmolive InBev Procter & Gamble Altria Group Danone Johnson & Johnson Reckitt Benckiser Anheuser-Busch Diageo Kellogg SABMiller Cadbury Schweppes Heineken Kimberly-Clark Sara Lee Campbell Soup HJ Heinz LVMH Mot Hennessy Scottish & Newcastle Carlsberg The Hershey Company Nestl Unilever Coca-Cola Imperial Tobacco Group Pepsico 74 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 Status of Remuneration Report Total shareholder return annual % 1 January 2005 31 December 2007 FTSE 100 This report has been prepared in accordance with Upper quartile Lower quartile Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The report British The FTSE 100 comparison is based on three months average values.
American also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules Tobacco Median 13.9% 33.9% of the UK Listing Authority and describes how the Board 70 has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors remuneration as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance referred to in the Corporate 0 Governance Statement on page 76.
As required by the Companies Act 1985, a resolution to approve the -40 Directors Remuneration Report the Report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company Total shareholder return annual % 1 January 2005 31 December 2007 FMCG group on 30 April 2008, at which the Financial Statements will be presented for approval.
The vote will have advisory Upper quartile Lower quartile British status, will be in respect of the remuneration policy and The FMCG comparison is based on three months average values.
American Tobacco Median 19.0% 33.9% overall remuneration packages and will not be specific 40 to individual levels of remuneration.
The Companies Act 30 1985 requires the auditors to report to the Companys 20 shareholders on the audited information within the 10 Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those 0 parts of the Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The Auditors Report is Historical total shareholder return performance set out on pages 84 and 85 and those aspects of the Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years Report which have been subject to audit have been clearly FTSE 100 British American Tobacco marked: Table 1, Table 3, Table 4 and Table 5 on pages FTSE 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values.
400 On behalf of the Board 300 Kenneth Clarke 200 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 100 27 February 2008 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Executive Directors percentage of fixed and variable remuneration Salary Pension and benefits Bonus cash deferred shares LTIP P N Adams P A Rayner A Monteiro fide Castro 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Notes: 1 The above illustration of the Executive Directors percentage of fixed and variable remuneration for 2007 is based on a number of assumptions: 1 base salary represents annual salary: 2 pension represents the transfer value of net increase in pension in the UK Pension Fund as disclosed in Table 4 on page 72: it does not include transfer values accruing in other Group pension funds: 3 benefits are core benefits such as car car allowance, private medical and personal accident insurance: 4 bonus is the amount expected for delivery of on target performance delivered in cash and deferred shares: and 5 LTIP represents the target annualised expected value of long term incentives expressed as a percentage of base salary.
2 Fixed remuneration comprises: salary, pension and benefits.
Variable remuneration comprises: bonus cash and deferred shares and LTIP.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 75 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
