Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 25 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT The Companys current remuneration policy Under the DASBS, eligible executives, including Service contracts for 2007 and beyond is designed to help ensure the executive directors, receive the deferred It is the Companys policy that executive the recruitment, retention and motivation of element of their annual bonus as an award directors are normally employed on contracts the executive directors by providing fair reward of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares are that provide for 12 months notice from the for the responsibilities they undertake and transferred to the executive on 1 March in the Company and six months notice from the the performance they achieve on behalf of third year after the year in which the award executive.
The non-executive directors do not shareholders.
In this context, the Remuneration is made, provided normally the executive has have service contracts.
Committees policy is to set the overall remained in the employment of the Group remuneration package at a competitive level throughout that period or until their normal Directors emoluments for 2007 and in a form that permits significant additional retirement date.
The directors aggregate emoluments for 2007 remuneration to be earned for high performance were 3.2 million, the aggregate amount of over a sustained period.
This is normally Share based incentives gains made by directors on the exercise of achieved by benchmarking base pay against The Remuneration Committee believes that share options during the year was 0.9 million, comparator companies and a range of factors, the long term performance of the Group is an the aggregate market value of performance including performance, and by providing, in important consideration for shareholders and share awards exercised by directors under addition, short and long term incentives geared that share based incentives are an important long term incentive schemes during the year to performance.
part of helping to align the interests of was 0.7 million, the aggregate market value shareholders and those employed by the Group.
of shares exercised by directors under the In assessing the balance of performance A formal share ownership guideline is in place DASBS was 0.5 million and the aggregate related and non-performance related elements under which executive directors are expected amount of contributions paid by the Company of remuneration, base pay and benefits are over a period of time to retain a shareholding to money purchase pension schemes in respect treated as non-performance related, whereas worth at least equal to their basic salaries.
of the directors was 0.2 million.
Two of the annual bonus including awards under the current directors participate in defined benefit Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme The Group operates a Long Term Incentive pension schemes, one of whom who is no DASBS and long term incentives are treated Plan under which the executive directors and longer accruing future benefits under the defined as performance related.
For this purpose, share other senior executives in the Group may be benefit scheme also participates in a money options and performance shares are valued at granted options and awards in respect of purchase pension scheme.
an appropriate proportion of their face value performance shares.
Participation in the Plan on grant or award.
On this basis, the Committee is at the discretion of the Committee.
The Total shareholder return sets the remuneration package such that about Committee reviews biannually the level of grant The Companys total shareholder return over the half the total target remuneration package is taking account of each executives performance last five years compared to that of the FTSE derived from the performance related elements.
Annual grants of share Support Services Sector is shown below.
options may not exceed an amount equal to Base pay three times base salary.
In normal circumstances 250 Bunzl 230 FTSE Support Services The base pay of each executive director options granted are exercisable, subject to 210 190 is set to reflect the size and scope of that satisfaction of the relevant performance 170 directors responsibilities undertaken on behalf condition, after three years with no provision 150 130 of the Board, the level of overall performance for retesting, not earlier than three years and 110 achieved, including that related to environmental, not later than 10 years after the date of grant.
90 70 social and governance issues and experience in Annual awards of performance shares may 50 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 the post.
It is benchmarked against comparator not exceed an amount equal to two times base companies and the actual pay level is set after salary.
A performance share award will normally Source: Thomson Datastream taking into account individual performance vest i. e. become exercisable on the third and the general movement of base pay within anniversary of its grant to the extent that the the Group.
applicable performance condition has been satisfied, with no provision for retesting, and will Annual bonus plan remain capable of being exercised for the three The executive directors participate in an annual year period following the date on which it vests.
bonus plan intended to support the Companys overall remuneration policy.
The bonus plan Retirement benefits for each executive director contains meaningful The Group utilises both defined benefit and targets that seek to focus attention on one defined contribution pension schemes or two key measures of short to medium throughout the world.
All defined benefit term achievement.
Half of this annual bonus schemes are closed to new entrants is normally paid in cash and the balance who are now offered a defined contribution but with the total aggregate amount capped arrangement.
The executive directors are is deferred under the rules of the DASBS.
eligible to participate in the relevant pension scheme and or may choose to take a pension allowance, part of which can be paid into a private pension scheme.
