Corporate Governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and schemes.
They are not entitled to any compensation for early termination, supports the need for clear standards to be laid down to safeguard the save as may be provided for in general law.
Non-executive directors are interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board is accountable not required to hold shares in the Company but are encouraged to do to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
All non-executive directors held shares as at the year-end.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and The Board is confident that the non-executive director fees structure the Company is therefore required to comply with the Listing Rules of currently in place enables it to attract and retain non-executive directors of the UK Listing Authority.
These Rules require listed companies to include sufficient calibre and experience to bring balance, insight and challenge to a statement of corporate governance in their annual reports relating to the role.
There has been no change to the fee arrangements for the year compliance with the principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the ended 31 March 2007.
Further details appear in the Remuneration Combined Code 2003 on Corporate Governance describing how the Report on page 75.
Company has applied those principles and whether or not the Company has complied with those provisions throughout the year.
All directors are subject to re-appointment at intervals of no more than three years.
Any directors appointed by the Board are subject to The directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following year ended 31 March 2007 with the provisions of Section 1 of the their appointment.
All directors have access to the advice and services Combined Code 2003. of the Company Secretary, Peter Clarke, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that there is The Board of Directors compliance with applicable rules and regulations.
In addition, the Board As at 31 March 2007, the Board comprised two executive directors has established a procedure that enables any director to have access to and six non-executive directors including the Chairman.
However, from independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
Appropriate directors and officers liability insurance is also in place.
The removal of 31 May 2007 the number of executive directors increased to three following the appointment of Kevin Hayes as the new Finance Director.
the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Although the Company Secretary, Peter Clarke, is also Group Chief Executive, The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with the Board considers his position as Secretary is appropriate given his professional qualifications and experience.
responsibilities clearly divided between them.
The Chairman is able to dedicate significant time to the business and has no other material The Board holds meetings on a regular basis, at least six times per year commitments outside Man Group.
Non-executive directors represent the majority of the Board.
Of the six non-executive directors, Jon Aisbitt, and additionally for specific purposes as and when required.
During the year there were six Board meetings including a four-day strategic Alison Carnwath, Dugald Eadie and Glen Moreno are considered to be independent non-executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that there are planning session attended additionally by senior executives below Board level from across the Groups activities.
All Board members attended no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement of those directors.
The Board makes this every meeting during the year except Glen Moreno who was absent for one meeting.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties effectively, all assertion having considered and taken full account of the fact that Glen Moreno was first appointed to the Board in 1994.
Following a rigorous directors receive appropriate and timely information with briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings.
All new directors receive an review of his performance and his independence the Board, including all of the other members deemed independent, is completely satisfied that appropriate introduction to their responsibilities and the Groups operations, by way of a detailed briefing pack and meetings with relevant Glen Moreno is independent in character and judgement.
Given his experience, credibility and commitment, he makes a significant, valuable senior management.
All directors also receive regular updates on changes and developments to business, legislative, regulatory risk and and challenging contribution to both governance and strategic issues.
Accordingly, independent non-executive directors comprise the majority financial matters as well as details of any investor relations issues or of non-executives and half of the members of the Board excluding specific views of major shareholders.
Alison Carnwath is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Glen Moreno is recognised as the senior The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management and independent non-executive director and is available to shareholders in performance of the business including the system of internal controls the event that they have concerns that have not been resolved through and corporate governance, as well as the development of strategy and the normal channels with the Chief Executive or Chairman.
To this end the Board has adopted written delegated authorities which identify matters specifically reserved to it for decision frequently attends meetings with institutional investors and always attends results presentations.
The non-executive directors met together twice and which also provide for a tiered approval process for decisions below Board level, encompassing strategic, expenditure, financial, risk and during the year without the Chairman or executive directors present.
On a separate occasion the non-executive directors, including the Chairman, control authorities.
As part of a continuing process, the Board reviewed these delegated authorities during the year to take account of business met without the executive directors present.
developments, governance and regulatory change, and Group risk appetite.
The Board formally delegates certain of its responsibilities to Prior to their appointment, potential non-executive directors are asked to confirm that they have sufficient time available to meet what is expected committees by way of written terms of reference.
Details of each principal committee, its membership and the terms of reference are of them, including the membership of relevant Board committees.
They are also subject to a review to assess their independence and to confirm summarised below.
Their composition and terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
As usual, that they have no other relationships that might affect their judgement.
The non-executive directors are appointed by the Board and stand for the Chairman of each Committee will be attending the Companys Annual General Meeting to answer any questions regarding the re-appointment at the first Annual General Meeting of the Company following their appointment.
They hold office for a three-year period, Committees activities and responsibilities.
subject to the Companys Articles of Association, whereupon they may stand for re-appointment by shareholders in General Meeting.
They are Each Board Committee is expected to conduct an annual self appraisal of its performance which includes taking the views of the Board on the entitled to a fee for their services plus reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred for Group purposes.
They are not entitled to any pension or performance of that Committee and the Chairman of the relevant Committee reports to the Board on the results of the process.
During the bonus and cannot participate in any Man Group share-based incentive Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 68 Corporate Governance year a comprehensive and rigorous evaluation process was conducted ARCom met eight times during the year, compared to six times in the p on the overall effectiveness and performance of the Board and its revious year.
The increased number of meetings reflects the additional committees.
This was led by the Chairman, using a detailed questionnaire, time required by the Committee in order to address matters relating to the the results from which were then reviewed and discussed collectively by planned IPO of Man Financial.
Of these meetings, one was a brief session the Board, and areas for improvement agreed and actioned.
Additionally, for ARCom members only held as part of the strategic off-site meeting and the senior independent director in consultation with the rest of the Board dedicated to ARComs approach and work for the forthcoming year and conducted a review of the Chairmans effectiveness, and the Chairman two were focussed on discussions of the interim and final accounts.
Except led an individual director assessment process.
for Glen Moreno, who was unable to attend one meeting, all members were present at each meeting.
With the exception of the session at the strategic Nomination Committee offsite meeting, Stanley Fink Chief Executive, Peter Clarke Group Deputy The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board and is Chief Executive and Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller responsible for identifying, assessing and nominating for the approval of were present at all meetings and Harvey McGrath Chairman was present the Board, candidates to fill vacancies as and when they arise.
This at all but one of them.
Kevin Davis Managing Director, Man Financial, the includes consideration of the re-appointment of non-executive directors Heads of Group Risk and Internal Audit and the external auditors were at the conclusion of their specified term of office and the re-election by invited by the Chairman of ARCom to attend part or all of five meetings.
shareholders of any director under the retirement by rotation provision of A manager within Group Risk acted as secretary to the Committee.
It is also responsible for considering succession planning for both the Board and senior management positions.
The The Chairman of the Committee met separately with the Head of Internal Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors and accordingly Audit and with the external auditors without any other members of has a majority of independent non-executive directors.
Apart from the management present and reported to the Committee on these resignation of Jonathan Nicholls from the Board in July 2006, there were discussions.
The full Committee had a meeting with the external auditors no changes to the composition of the Committee during the year.
once during the year without any other members of management The Board considers that the position of Group Chairman necessitates a present.
ARCom members received all reports prepared by Internal leading role in the composition and balance of the Board and accordingly Audit together with managements responses to any recommendations.
the Committee is chaired by Harvey McGrath.
The Committee meets as and when required.
There was one meeting during the year to consider With the exception of the meetings relating principally to the financial the re-appointment of non-executive directors at the conclusion of their statements and the session at the strategic offsite at all other meetings terms of office and the re-election of directors under the retirement by ARCom received reports from: rotation provisions of the Companys Articles.
All members were present the Head of Internal Audit summarising the status of the internal audit at the meeting.
programme and any significant findings from audits completed in the period since the last meeting: Remuneration Committee the Chairman of ARCom on any relevant discussions with the external The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board and is auditors since the last meeting: responsible for setting remuneration for all executive directors and the the Finance Director on any relevant discussions between senior Chairman of the Board, and agreeing the framework and policy for the management and the external auditors: the Group Financial Controller or the Finance Director on updates to remuneration of directors and other members of senior executive management, including pension rights and eligibility for benefits under the Groups financial reporting and on the schedule of audit and non-audit fees: long-term incentive schemes.
The Committee approves the terms of any service agreement to be entered into with any executive director and any the Head of Group Risk on the Groups risk profile, including significant legal and compliance matters, and reports on matters proposed compensation for termination.
The Committee is exclusively responsible for selecting and appointing any remuneration consultants discussed at the Group Risk Committee: and who may advise the Committee.
The Remuneration Report, set out on the Head of Corporate Responsibility provides a written update as to pages 72 to 80, includes details of the Committees activities, a the status of the programme and the minutes of the Corporate statement of the Companys remuneration policy and the procedures Responsibility Committee meetings.
for determining executive directors remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors: Dugald Where possible, separate reports were received for Man Investments Eadie Chairman, Jon Aisbitt, Alison Carnwath and Glen Moreno.
The Committee met twice during the year and all members were present on each occasion.
During the year the Committee reviewed its terms of ARCom examined regulatory compliance issues and corporate reference.
Apart from the resignation of Jonathan Nicholls from the responsibility reporting and also reviewed its forward agenda at the end Board in July 2006 there were no changes to the composition of the of each meeting.
Over the course of the year the ARCom received regular Committee during the year.
reports on the progress of the investigation into the circumstances relating to the investor losses arising from the failure of PAAF.
Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee ARCom is appointed by the Board.
A theme for ARCom in the period was the examination of risk issues in It comprises the four independent non-executive directors and is relation to the proposed IPO for Man Financial.
Different aspects of this currently chaired by Alison Carnwath.
Jon Aisbitt will replace Alison were discussed at a number of meetings.
The principal recurring Carnwath as Chair of the Committee for the year ending 31 March matters were the introduction of an Internal Controls Best Practice 2008.
A further independent non-executive director, Jonathan Nicholls, ICBP programme, reflecting Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, and an resigned from the Committee on 20 July 2006 as a requirement of his examination of the effects of US GAAP on Man Financial reporting.
appointment as an executive director of Old Mutual plc.
ARCom has explicit authority to investigate any matters within its terms The Committee has formal terms of reference which are available on the of reference and has access to all resources and information that it may Groups website.
The terms of reference were updated in the year to require for this purpose.
It is entitled to obtain legal and other formalise changes in the Committees practices and to reflect the independent professional advice and has the authority to approve all evolution of best practice for audit committees.
fees payable to such advisers.
69 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance continued The principal items dealt with at each meeting in addition to the above were: considered that  detailed knowledge of the Group meant that the use of a firm other than the Groups auditors for May 2006 review of key issues relating to the financial statements and these activities would have resulted in considerable inefficiencies and increased risk to the IPO schedule.
In total these fees amount to more draft Annual Report.
than twice the audit fees payable and further amounts budgeted for the forthcoming year amount to 120% of this years audit fee.
The substantial May 2006 review of key issues arising from the external audit: the final draft Annual Report: external auditors confirmation of their majority of these fees relate to technical advice in relation to, and an audit of, the US GAAP financial statements required for the IPO.
Non-audit fees independence: Group Board going concern statement: audit representation letter: reports in relation to the effectiveness of the Groups system of not related to the IPO were 38% of audit fees 2006: 27%.
Approximately one third of these fees relate to regulatory capital Basel II advice, much internal controls: and approval of the Internal Audit mandate and plan.
of which may also be attributed to the IPO.
July 2006 review of proposal to introduce an Internal Controls Best Practice programme to Man Financial: review of external auditors During the year, the Committee initiated a process for the assessment of the qualifications, expertise, resources and effectiveness of the external auditors.
comments on matters arising from the audit in relation to internal controls: and review of Group Code of Conduct and any incidence of This review was based on responses to a questionnaire completed by members of ARCom, senior management, finance and internal audit misconduct and disciplinary action.
The Committee also reviewed its own terms of reference and its forward agenda and considered a draft functions.
The results were reviewed at the ARCom meeting in May 2007 and the conclusions were communicated to the external auditors.
report on the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to ARCom, which reviewed and September 2006 review of the potential impact of US GAAP on Man Financial reporting: review of the annual plan for Group Risk: and review approved the annual audit plan and the resources and results of its work.
A report prepared by external consultants on the effectiveness of of ARCom training and development needs.
Internal Audit was considered by the Committee during the year and a number of changes were made to Internal Audit methodology and November 2006 review of key issues relating to the interim financial statements and draft interim report.
In the light of the planned IPO of Man Financial a new Head of Internal Audit for the Group was appointed on 26 March November 2006 review of the final draft interim financial statements and 2007.
The effectiveness of ARCom was considered by the Group Board during the year, as discussed in the Board of Directors section.
the report from the external auditors on these: review of external auditors plan for the current year audit: review briefing paper on Internal Controls Internal control Best Practice: and consideration of the letters received from the FSA.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
January 2007 review the external audit plan and approval of external audit fees: initiated a process for the review of external auditor The ARCom provides oversight and independent challenge in relation to internal control and risk management systems.
effectiveness: review of the adequacy of the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements: review of the policy on the hiring of former employees of The Groups reputation is fundamental to its ability to attract customers the external auditors: review of a report on the Groups off balance sheet exposures: and receive an update on the readiness of the Group to and investors in both its Brokerage and Asset Management businesses.
The directors and senior managers of the Group are therefore committed meet the requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive.
to maintaining high standards and a control conscious culture.
The Groups activities are also subject to high levels of regulatory oversight March 2007 This meeting was primarily concerned with reflection on Committee activity in the financial year ended 31 March 2007 and in many jurisdictions, particularly in the UK and the USA, and significant Group resources are allocated to ensure compliance.
This oversight consideration of ideas to improve the role of the Committee in the current financial year.
includes obligations of regular compliance reporting, the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and periodic audit by regulators.
The Chair of the ARCom reported regularly to the Board on the The Boards role includes: Committees activities after each meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which the Committee considered that action was needed setting the overall risk management strategy: developing appropriate risk management and governance and made recommendations on the steps to be taken.
arrangements and systems: establishing and maintaining effective internal controls: and ARCom has a key oversight role in relation to the external auditors,  LLP, whose primary relationship is with the ensuring that the Group maintains adequate financial resources.
As a matter of professional practice both ARCom and the external auditors maintain safeguards to avoid the objectivity and The key elements of each of these and the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group are explained in the independence of the auditors becoming compromised.
ARCom has approved a formal policy regarding the engagement of the external Risk Management section included within this Annual Report.
auditors in the provision of non-audit services.
This policy precludes the external auditors from providing certain services including book keeping, These processes have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this Annual Report and have been regularly reviewed by the Board.
financial information system design and implementation, appraisal and valuation, and internal audit work and permit limited other services which The systems of internal control aim to safeguard assets, and ensure are subject to low fee thresholds or which require prior approval from the Committee.
The policy in relation to approval of non-audit services has proper accounting records are maintained so that the financial information, used within the business and for publication, is reliable.
The systems are been updated for the year ending 31 March 2008 to reflect the increase in audit fees and revised ethical guidance.
designed to manage key risks rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not Considerable fees were paid to  for work absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
associated with the planned IPO of Man Financial.
The Committee Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 70 Corporate Governance Compliance with these systems is monitored by line management, each resolution, despatching the notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers at least 20 working days before the meeting, and regular reporting through subsidiary boards and Board Committees, and through the Internal Audit programme.
The Board received annual proposing each substantially separate issue as an individual motion.
It is intended that all members of the Board will, as usual, attend the 2007 written confirmation from subsidiary directors and divisional management that the Groups approach to, and required standards for, risk Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer questions both during and after the Meeting.
management and internal control were understood and that the level of risk was consistent with and managed in accordance with the Groups Statement of directors responsibilities risk management framework.
These procedures provide for assurance to be given by higher levels of management and, finally, by the Board.
The directors are responsible for preparing financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Internal Audit provides further assurance as to the operation and validity Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year in accordance with of the system of internal control through its independent reviews.
Its programme was based in large part on the results of the risk identification applicable UK law, United Kingdom Accounting Standards and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the EU.
process and work performed included a detailed examination of related key controls.
In preparing the financial statements set out on pages 83 to 139, the The Board received regular reports on all the above items during the year directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: and has also undertaken a formal process to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
This process addressed the controls in place make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and The full review covered all controls including operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The effectiveness prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to do so.
of the internal controls was considered in the context of the Groups risk appetite, reports on its risk profile, reports of any losses incurred and The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements.
reports from internal and external audit and compliance functions.
No significant weaknesses or material failings in the system of internal The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records controls were identified in this review.
Management does, however, have an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and which enable them to risks faced by the Group and continually take actions to improve internal controls as a result of its own initiatives and in response to reports from ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Internal Audit and other internal and external reviews.
the Group and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The processes relating to both risk and internal controls described above accord with the guidance in the Internal Control: Revised The directors, having prepared the financial statements, have requested the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the 2005 Turnbull guidance.
auditors to take whatever steps and to undertake whatever inspections they consider appropriate for the purposes of giving their reports.
Going concern Each director confirms that so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and that he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
This Investor relations confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company enters into a dialogue at appropriate times with its institutional shareholders, whilst having regard to the UK Listing The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 are included Authoritys guidance on the dissemination of price sensitive information.
The Groups non-executive Chairman frequently attends meetings with in the Annual Report 2007, which is published in hard copy form and institutional investors and always attends results presentations.
Copies made available on the Groups website.
The directors are responsible of all results announcements are carried in full on the Companys for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the Groups website www.
com as soon as they are published, website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation together with announcements required to be made in accordance with and dissemination of financial statements.
It should be noted that the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and other investor presentation information published on the Internet is accessible in many countries, material.
The Company encourages research coverage of its business some of which have different legal requirements relating to the preparation activities by analysts and rating agencies and for this purpose makes a nd dissemination of financial statements.
The work carried out by available the time of the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
In addition the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, to the electronic access referred to above, the Company has made accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes available CREST electronic proxy voting to institutional shareholders that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially since the 2003 Annual General Meeting and all shareholders have been presented on the website.
able to electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf since the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Full use is made of the Annual General Meeting to communicate with Peter Clarke private investors.
The Company will continue the practices of making Company Secretary available at the Annual General Meeting the level of proxies lodged on 31 May 2007 71 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Remuneration Report The directors submit their Remuneration Report for the year ended To protect the Groups business interests, executive directors service contracts contain non-compete covenants designed to be applicable to 31 March 2007.
The information given on pages 75 to 80 is audited.
the extent permitted under the law of the relevant jurisdiction.
The executive directors service contracts do not include any fixed provision The Remuneration Report sets out the Companys policy on the remuneration of executive and non-executive directors with details of for termination compensation.
The Committee is mindful of the need to consider what compensation commitments, if any, are appropriate in the their remuneration packages including share incentive scheme awards, service contracts and disclosable interests in the issued share capital of event of the termination of executive directors service contracts, bearing in mind the Groups legal obligations and the individuals ability to mitigate Man Group plc in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Report will be put to an advisory vote of the Companys shareholders at the their loss.
The Committee must approve in advance any proposed termination payments.
Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 July 2007.
The non-executive directors are appointed by the Board.
Details of their The Remuneration Committee comprises only independent nonexecutive directors: Dugald Eadie Chairman, Jon Aisbitt, Alison terms of appointment are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
Jonathan Nicholls was also a member of the Committee until his resignation from the Board in July 2006.
It is As stated in the Directors Report, the Company has purchased and responsible for setting the remuneration of all executive directors and the maintained throughout the year Directors and Officers liability insurance Chairman of Man Group plc.
It is also responsible for determining the in respect of itself and its directors.
framework and policy for the remuneration of senior executives below Board level across Man Group.
The full terms of reference of the Salaries and fees Committee are available on the Groups website.
Salary ranges are established by reference to those prevailing in the employment market generally for executives of comparable status, Executive remuneration policy responsibility and skills.
Particular regard is paid to salary levels within The Group aims to attract, motivate and retain high calibre executives other leading companies in the financial services sector and the need by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit packages which in many cases to secure the services of senior executives who have are linked to a the achievement of agreed individual objectives: b the international experience and flexibility in job location.
These comparisons achievement of the Groups key financial targets as set out in the are made with the assistance of available independent remuneration Financial Review : and c the creation of long-term shareholder value.
In assessing the competitiveness of remuneration, salaries and bonuses have been reviewed against available external market data provided by The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board independent professional consultants.
To retain flexibility in the within the limits contained in the Articles of Association.
The basic fee application of its remuneration policy on an annual basis, the Committee is 75,000.
Additional fees of 10,000, 20,000 and 20,000 were paid seeks to give a high proportion of total annual compensation in the form to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Chairman of the Audit of variable bonus payments.
The Committee does not consider it and Risk Committee and senior independent director respectively, to appropriate to establish any maximum percentage of salary payable by reflect their additional responsibilities.
It is also policy to align the interests of executive directors and senior executives with the Groups shareholders through Pension provision the promotion and encouragement of share ownership, by offering The Group operates pension and retirement benefit schemes for its participation in share-based long-term incentive schemes, details of employees in a number of countries.
Base salary is the only component which are set out in this report.
The Committees general policy with of remuneration which is pensionable.
All executive directors are eligible regard to the remuneration of executive directors is not expected to to participate in the Groups pension arrangements generally operating change in the current year.
in the jurisdiction in which they work.
Alternatively, the Group will, at the executive directors request and subject to applicable limits and The remuneration of executive directors consists of annual salary, car regulations, make a contribution of up to 10% of pensionable salary to allowance, health and disability benefits, an annual cash bonus scheme, a private pension plan nominated by the director.
The Remuneration pension contribution and participation in long-term incentive schemes.
Committee has considered the provisions of the Finance Act 2004 In the case of executive directors who are relocated to overseas offices, Simplification and Pensions Act 2004 and the Groups pension an additional housing allowance may be paid.
Only base salary is arrangements have been amended to be fully compliant.
Details of each individual directors remuneration, shareholding and, where applicable, share options and long-term Performance-related cash bonuses incentive plan benefits are set out in this report.
All executive directors and senior executives are eligible for an annual performance-related cash bonus, which is non-pensionable.
Although Service contracts the Committee does not consider it appropriate to establish any The Group has service agreements with its executive directors.
The maximum percentage of salary payable by way of annual bonus, total service contracts do not have a fixed term but provide for termination on bonuses available across the Group for distribution to eligible employees the expiry of not more than 12 months written notice by either party or including executive directors are determined by reference to the pre-tax at the end of the month during which the director has attained the age profit of each business unit after making certain adjustments, including of 60.
The effective dates of the service agreements are: Peter Clarke a charge for the capital allocated by the Group to the operation of that 1 April 1997 and Kevin Davis 1 April 2000.
Stanley Finks service business and any credit usage.
contract dated 24 March 2000 was replaced by a letter of engagement as a non-executive director on 30 March 2007 following his appointment Bonuses for executive directors are discretionary.
In considering the as non-executive Deputy Chairman.
The service contracts contain no appropriate level of bonus for each director, the Committee considers contractual entitlement to be paid any fixed amount of bonus or right to a the extent to which the individual has achieved their agreed personal participation in any of the Groups share-based incentive schemes, objectives for the year and b the extent to which the Group has participation in which is at the Committees discretion.
achieved its stated financial targets.
The Groups longstanding key targets are: significant growth in diluted underlying earnings per share which was up 42% in the year : and maintaining a high level of post-tax Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 72 Remuneration Report return on equity which was 30.9% for the year.
The bonus of each No award will be transferred unless the Group maintains an average executive director, as determined by the Remuneration Committee annual Return on Equity of at least 20% across the performance period.
against these measures on an individual basis, is shown in the table on For average annual Return on Equity of 20%, 10% of the shares vest.
Bonuses for senior executives below Board level are discussed Awards will be transferred at levels above this on a linear sliding scale.
with the Committee and reviewed by it.
Full benefits of an award can only be transferred when annual Return on Equity has averaged 30% or more.
These targets are considered by the Although the bonus is paid in cash, executive directors and senior Committee to be both challenging and appropriate given the regulated executives are encouraged to defer a portion of the bonus into shares nature of the Groups business.
in order to receive conditional awards of matching shares under the LTIP see below.
Share Option Scheme An Inland Revenue Approved and Unapproved Scheme, The Man Group Long-term share-based incentive schemes Executive Share Option Scheme 2001, was established following Man Group has always sought to facilitate significant equity ownership shareholder approval at the 2001 AGM.
Selected senior employees and by directors and senior management, principally through schemes which executive directors are eligible to participate.
All grants of options are encourage and assist the purchase of shares with their own money or subject to Remuneration Committee approval.
Details of options held by by way of bonus sacrifice.
The Board and employees worldwide together executive directors are set out on page 77.
Individual share option currently own an estimated 9% of the Companys share capital, either awards are subject to an annual cap of 200% of base salary.
Options directly or through employee trusts established and funded for this issued under the Scheme may normally only be exercised between three purpose.
The Board alone directly holds 4% of the issued capital.
The and ten years from the date of grant and are subject to the satisfaction Employee Trusts are included in the Groups consolidated financial of performance conditions.
For all grants prior to June 2006, 50% of statements.
each option will vest if the Companys underlying earnings per share EPS growth matches or exceeds the growth in RPI plus 3% per Executive directors are currently eligible to participate in the Performance annum, with the entire option vesting at RPI plus 6% per annum.
For all Share Plan, Assisted Purchase Scheme and Executive Share Option grants from June 2006 and onwards 50% of each option will vest if the Scheme, in each case at the Committees discretion.
Both the Board Companys underlying earnings per share EPS growth in the single and the Committee believe that it is inappropriate to use short-term three-year performance period matches or exceeds the growth in RPI share price movements as a measure of management performance: true plus 5% per annum, with the entire option vesting at RPI plus 10% per long-term shareholder value will be created through long-term growth in annum.
Performance criteria are calculated from the end of the financial earnings per share and the maintenance of high levels of post-tax return year prior to the grant of option.
No re-testing of the EPS performance on capital.
For this reason, these two measures form the basis of the targets will take place for options granted since 2005.
Accordingly, if the performance criteria applicable to the Groups long-term share-based targets attached to any option are not reached after three years, the incentive schemes.
The Committee is not aware of any listed companies option will lapse.
The Remuneration Committee considers underlying of substantial size whose main business activities are comparable in earnings per share that is earnings from net management fee income nature and scale to that of the Man Group, and accordingly the Committee and Brokerage net income, and which therefore excludes net does not see any merit in trying to benchmark performance criteria performance fee income and exceptional items to be an appropriate against other companies.
The effect of performance fee income is excluded as it can be volatile when comparing between accounting periods.
The following is a summary of the long-term share-based incentive schemes that is intended will be operated by the Group during the Assisted Purchase Scheme forthcoming year.
The Group has established and contributes to a discretionary trust for the benefit of employees of the Group including executive directors to facilitate the acquisition of shares in the Company as long-term holdings.
The current Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP is a long-term incentive plan.
The PSP has been updated to trustees, who are not connected with the Group, are Roanne Trust Company Jersey Limited and Ansbacher Trustees Jersey Limited.
The reflect the changes in corporate governance best practice over the past decade and these changes were approved at the AGM in July 2006. trustee acquires shares in the market, which it will sell on at the prevailing market price on deferred payment terms.
In the case of executive directors, The first grants under the new PSP will be made following the announcement of the 2007 results.
Awards under the PSP are such assistance is subject to prior approval by the Remuneration Committee.
As at 31 March 2007 the directors receiving such assistance performance-related over a three-year measurement period based on the level of post-tax return on average shareholders funds Return on were: Peter Clarke 280,050, payable in November 2007: Kevin Davis 1,212,800, payable in annual instalments during the period to November Equity achieved by the Group throughout that period.
Return on Equity, for this purpose, is defined as the post-tax profit for the year divided by 2010: and Stanley Fink 560,080, payable in November 2007. the average of the monthly equity shareholders funds.
Entitlements are subject to an additional one-year restriction on transfer to participants Co-Investment Scheme dependent upon continued employment with the Group.
This is a long-term incentive scheme, designed to encourage senior executives excluding directors to invest a proportion of their cash Each year, participants are eligible to receive awards of performance shares bonus by purchasing shares in the Company and to facilitate their up to a maximum of 100% of base salary.
Additionally the PSP allows retention.
It is a matching scheme whereby the Group matches on an participants to invest part or all of their annual performance-related cash agreed basis the pre-tax amount of bonus invested in the scheme bonus in shares in the Company invested shares.
In return, a participant provided that the bonus investment shares are retained by the employee is provisionally allocated such number of additional shares as represents the for three years.
The matching award can be exercised for no payment amount of their investment gross of personal tax and social security liabilities after four years provided that the employee is still employed by the matching shares.
In addition, shares purchased under the Assisted Group.
The Scheme operates on a four-to-one matching basis.
The Purchase Scheme see opposite are eligible for an allocation of matching amount a participant can invest cannot exceed 100% of their bonus.
shares under the PSP on a one-to-one ratio.
In the event of sale of any invested purchased shares before the end of the three-year performance period the number of matching shares will be reduced proportionally.
73 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Remuneration Report continued Other Employee Share Schemes In 2001, the Group introduced an Inland Revenue approved Sharesave Scheme in the United Kingdom and an Internal Revenue Code qualifying employee Stock Purchase Plan in the United States.
Both are allemployee plans and executive directors are entitled to participate, subject to the relevant terms and conditions.
The UK Sharesave Scheme contracts are for three or five year periods, with each participant permitted to save up to 250 per month to purchase Man Group plc shares at a discount.
The initial grant was made in October 2001 and further grants in June 2002, June 2003, June 2004, June 2005 and June 2006.
The discount was 20% of the market value near the time the option was granted.
Under the US Stock Purchase Plan, each participant is permitted to save up to $375 per month $500 per month from 2005 to purchase Man Group plc shares at a discount, normally after a 24-month period and is subject to a restriction on transfer of one year following purchase.
The initial grant, for a 17-month period, was made in January 2002 and further grants for 24-month periods were made in June 2002, June 2003, June 2004, June 2005 and June 2006.
The option price was at a 15% discount to the market value on the date of grant.
Performance graph The performance graph below compares the Companys total shareholder return performance against the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE 100 comprises the 100 largest UK quoted companies by market capitalisation.
It has been chosen because it is a widely recognised performance comparison for large UK companies.
The graph shows the change in the hypothetical value of 100 invested in the Companys ordinary shares on 31 March 2002, compared with the change in the hypothetical value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index, at 31 March in each year.
This shows that Man has materially outperformed the FTSE 100 over this period see Figure 48.
Figure 48: Total shareholder return 31 March 400 350 312 300 250 227 200 153 142 150 123 83 89 130 100 103 50 71 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Man Group plc FTSE 100 Index Source: Datastream Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 74 Remuneration Report Audited part of Remuneration Report Directors remuneration The remuneration of the directors listed by individual director is as follows: Salary Annual Termination 2007 2006 fees Benefits f bonus payments Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors Peter Clarke 385 22 4,752 5,159 3,978 Kevin Davis a 338 63 4,752 5,153 4,711 Stanley Fink b 442 44 7,127 7,613 5,997 Non-executive directors Harvey McGrath 362 362 362 Jon Aisbitt 75 75 75 Alison Carnwath 95 95 95 Dugald Eadie 85 85 85 Glen Moreno 95 95 95 Former directors Chris Chambers executive c 161 161 1,875 Jonathan Nicholls non-executive d 25 25 75 Stephen Nesbitt non-executive e 21 31 March 2007 2,063 129 16,631 18,823 31 March 2006 2,055 294 13,300 1,720 17,369 US dollar equivalent see Note 5 e to the financial statements $35.7m $31.0m Notes: a Kevin Davis salary and annual bonus are paid in US dollars.
The equivalent sterling figures in the above table are derived by applying the average USD:GBP exchange rate for the year of 1.8941. b Stanley Fink became a non-executive director on 30 March 2007. c Chris Chambers resigned on 31 August 2005.
Under the terms of his termination agreement he continued to receive a monthly salary and benefits in kind up to 30 September 2006 the termination date.
He was entitled to retain share options and awards subject to complying with his service and termination agreements and with an additional restrictive covenant, which states that he will not be employed or engaged in any capacity in a business which is in competition with the business of the Man Group.
Details of his outstanding share options and awards are given in the relevant tables.
d Retired from the Board 20 July 2006. e Retired from the Board 12 July 2005. f The benefits of Peter Clarke, Kevin Davis and Stanley Fink almost entirely relate to a taxable benefit in kind assessment in connection with the Assisted Purchase Scheme details of which are given on page 73.
75 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Audited part of Remuneration Report continued Retirement benefits accruing to Peter Clarke under a defined benefit pension scheme and contributions to money purchase schemes relating to other directors were as follows: Defined benefit scheme Transfer value at 31 March Increase in 2007 of Increase in accrued increase in Transfer Transfer Accrued accrued pension accrued value value of pension at pension during the pension of accrued accrued Increase in 31 March during the year net during the pension at pension at transfer 2007 a year of inflation year net of 31 March 31 March value over 000 000 000 inflation b 2007 b 2006 b the year Age per annum per annum per annum 000 000 000 000 Peter Clarke 47 47 23 21 300 655 320 335 Notes: a The accrued pension is the amount which would be paid if the director left service at 31 March 2007. b The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
Money purchase schemes 2007 2006 000 000 Executive directors Kevin Davis 28 15 Stanley Fink 42 42 Former executive director Chris Chambers 22 15 Chris Chambers resigned as a director on 31 August 2005.
For all grants from June 2006 and onwards 50% of each option will vest if the Companys underlying earnings per share growth in the single three-year performance period matches or exceeds the growth in RPI plus 5% per annum, with the entire option vesting at RPI plus 10% per annum.
The options granted in 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 have fully met the performance criteria.
b Kevin Davis exercised part of his 2003 options on 21 June 2006 when the share price was 396.83 pence, giving a gain of 51,335.
Chris Chambers exercised his 2003 options on 21 June 2006 when the share price was 396.83 pence, giving a gain of 246,391.
Shares under option under the Man Group Sharesave Scheme Number of options Exercised Earliest Latest Date of Granted during 31 March Option exercise exercise grant 1 April 2006 during year year a 2007 Price date date Stanley Fink October 2001 13,608 13,608 124p November 2006 April 2007 Notes: a Stanley Fink exercised his options granted in October 2001 on 22 November 2006 when the closing share price was 490.75 pence, giving a gain of 49,907.
77 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007
