PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Remuneration report Introduction Michael Jackson was appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee, following changes In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Company to the Code, which allow an independent presents a report on the remuneration of the Directors Chairman of the Board to sit on the Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Company Committee in reporting periods beginning on or is incorporated in Gibraltar and so is not subject to after 1 November 2006.
In accordance with the the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Remuneration Committees terms of reference, which apply to UK incorporated companies and Mr. Jackson takes no part in the Remuneration which set out specific disclosure requirements for a Committees deliberations or decisions regarding the Governance companys remuneration report.
However, in pursuit remuneration or service of the Chairman of the Board.
116 of best practice and compliance with the Code, this Remuneration Report has been prepared by the The Secretary to the Remuneration Committee is the Remuneration Committee in accordance with the Secretary to the Company.
An ordinary resolution In the year to 31 December 2007, the Committee to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed met five times.
During the reporting period and in at the AGM on 15 May 2008.
The vote will have an pursuance of performing its duties effectively, the advisory status only and will be in respect of the Committee consulted internally with the Group remuneration policy and overall remuneration Human Resources Director and Company Secretary.
packages generally and will not be specific to In addition, the Chief Executive Officer was invited individual levels of remuneration.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP to attend Committee meetings.
No person was and BDO Orion Limited have audited the sections involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
headed Share Plans and Emoluments table, to the The Committee has also retained the services of extent required by the regulations.
Kepler Associates Limited to advise the Committee and the Companys management on market trends, Remuneration Committee shortand long-term incentives and general executive The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee.
No other services were provided It is the duty of this Committee to determine and agree to the Company by Kepler Associates Limited.
with the Board the framework and broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, Executive remuneration policy Chief Executive Officer, Executive Directors, Company The Companys executive remuneration policy Secretary and any other senior management reporting remains unchanged from the policy approved by directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee Shareholders at the AGM in 2007.
The policy is to also annually reviews the total individual remuneration provide market-competitive total remuneration packages of each of these individuals, including packages enabling the Company to recruit and bonuses, incentive payments and share options retain the high-calibre individuals required to drive or share awards.
In a wider context, the Remuneration the future growth and performance of its business.
Committee also oversees major changes in employee Being an online gaming business operating in a highly benefit structures throughout the Group.
competitive and dynamic environment, a particular The terms of reference for the Remuneration emphasis is placed on providing a share-based Committee are available on the Groups website: remuneration package appealing to entrepreneurial www.
html or on request from the Company Secretary.
When establishing policies on remuneration, the During the year ended 31 December 2007, the Remuneration Committee takes into account a range following Directors were members of the of special circumstances specific to the Company.
Remuneration Committee: These include the rapid pace of change in the Lars Berg Chairman and member until he resigned Company, the characteristics of the sectors in which the from the Board on 4 May 2007 Company operates and the requirement for Executive Directors and certain other senior management Rod Perry Chairman from 10 May 2007 positions to relocate to and discharge all their Michael Jackson appointed 23 February 2007 responsibilities from Gibraltar.
The Companys policy is that fixed compensation salary and benefits should Tim Bristow appointed 10 May 2007 reflect the appropriate rate for each role, taking into Stephen Box appointed 13 December 2007 account market practice in the gaming and internet sectors, as well as geographic location.
Variable Lord Moonie appointed 13 December 2007 rewards provided through share options and bonuses PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 currently form approximately 90% of the Chief Executive 2007 salary 2008 salary Officers total remuneration opportunity whilst they Name Position $ $ form approximately 80% of the total remuneration Mitch Garber Chief Executive 1,050,000 1,050,000 opportunity for the Group Finance Director and senior Officer management.
The senior management bonus scheme Martin Weigold Group Finance 808,969 857,507 rewards the achievement of short-term corporate and Director personal objectives: the Share Plans reward share price performance over the longer term.
Benefits Governance The Remuneration Committee considers corporate performance on environmental, social and governance Executive Directors receive private medical insurance, 117 ESG issues when setting the remuneration of permanent health insurance and life assurance.
There Executive Directors and ensures that these are are no pension benefits or company car allowances, appropriately addressed in an individuals personal although Mitch Garber has the sole use of a vehicle objectives.
The Remuneration Committee also reviews owned by the Company and located in Gibraltar.
whether incentive structures for senior management Mitch Garber is also entitled under his service may raise ESG risks by inadvertently motivating agreement to an allowance for the provision of irresponsible behaviour and is of the view that this is furnished accommodation in Gibraltar having a not the case with the current incentive structures.
rental cost per annum of approximately US$150,000 plus service and utility costs.
As a result of the thorough compensation and benefits review for all employees undertaken by the Company Senior management bonus scheme at the end of 2006, which led to clear and consistent remuneration packages being introduced across For the year to 31 December 2007, the Executive different employment grades as well as the Group, Directors participated in a senior management bonus in the first quarter of 2007 the Company obtained scheme approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Shareholder approval for two further Share plans, the Mitch Garber and Martin Weigold were eligible for an PartyGaming Plc All-Employee Option Plan and the incentive with a maximum award of 100% and 75% PartyGaming Plc Performance Share Plan.
Details of respectively of basic salary.
Mitch Garbers award was the Share Plans and awards are set out below.
based solely on his performance against stretching personal objectives agreed with the Chairman of the Salary Board, the Remuneration Committee and the Board.
The awards for Martin Weigold and senior management Executive Directors salaries are reviewed annually were earned for achieving stretching targets linked with changes implemented from 1 January each year.
to revenue, Clean EBITDA and personal performance As in the previous year, 2008 salaries have been objectives agreed with the Chief Executive Officer, benchmarked by the Remuneration Committees the Remuneration Committee and the Board.
These advisers against three comparator reference groups: performance measures were chosen for their relevance i other FTSE 250 companies with a similar market in driving short-term performance of the business in the capitalisation as the Company: ii listed companies in uncertain and challenging environment for the online the gaming sector and iii listed software companies.
gaming industry following the enactment of the UIGEA Executive Directors basic salary levels exceed the in October 2006. market median, whilst the total cash payments which aggregates basic salary and target bonuses made to Bonus payments made to the Executive Directors for the the Chief Executive Officer are just below the market year to 31 December 2007 were as follows: median, whilst they are above the market median for Bonus paid the Group Finance Director, but below the market Executive Director $ upper quartile.
For 2008 the Remuneration Committee Mitch Garber 787,957 has resolved that it is appropriate to increase the Group Finance Directors basic salary by 6% in line with the Martin Weigold 455,046 increase for employees and executive salary inflation generally.
Following Mitch Garbers decision on 5 March 2008 that he did not intend to remain in the Companys employment beyond 1 May 2009, the Remuneration Committee resolved that it was inappropriate to increase his salary in 2008.
Executive Directors 2007 and 2008 salaries were are as follows: PartyGaming Plc PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Annual report 2007 Remuneration report The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the A.
The Plans structure of the senior management bonus scheme i The PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan in respect of the year ending 31 December 2008.
To attract, retain and reward employees and selfThe Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director employed consultants, the Board established the are now eligible for incentives with a maximum award PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan the Nil-Cost Plan of 120% and 100% of basic salary respectively.
Each option granted to date under the will be earned for achieving stretching targets linked Nil-Cost Plan Nil-Cost options takes the form of a to Clean EBITDA, revenue and personal performance right to acquire Shares or Depositary Interests at nil-cost objectives, the latter in the case of the Chief Executive Governance Governance on particular vesting dates, subject only to continued Officer agreed with the Chairman, Remuneration 118 employment.
The exercise of Nil-Cost options is satisfied Committee and the Board and in the case of the Group by the transfer to participants of Shares held in the Finance Director and other senior managers, the Chief Employee Trust established prior to Admission.
Executive Officer, the Remuneration Committee and the Board.
These performance measures were chosen The Code recommends that executive share options for their relevance in driving short-term performance of should not be offered at a discount.
awarded under the Nil-Cost Plan are awarded at nilcost on issue and vesting.
At the time awards were As part of the measures taken by the Company to made to the Executive Directors, the Remuneration retain Mitch Garbers services following the passing Committee was of the view that such awards were of the UIGEA and in conjunction with a gift of 40 million necessary in order for the Company to either secure Shares from the Principal Shareholders, on 29 December or retain their services.
2006, Line Trust Corporation Limited, trustee of the PartyGaming Plc Shares Trust the Employee Trust, As at 29 February 2008, 110,034,128 Shares were held in awarded the Chief Executive Officer a retention the Employee Trust to cover outstanding Nil-Cost options bonus of 3 million payable in 30 equal monthly and 19,746,086 Shares are available in the Employee tranches from 1 December 2006 to 1 May 2009 Trust for future awards under the Nil-Cost Plan.
conditional on his continued employment on each No new Nil-Cost options were awarded to Executive payment date.
In addition, Mitch Garber became Directors during 2007 and the Remuneration Committee entitled and was paid on 1 December 2007 a loyalty has no intention of granting any further Nil-Cost options bonus of 2 million for remaining employed by the to the existing Executive Directors.
The Nil-Cost Plan Company on that date.
The Employee Trust also will only be used in exceptional circumstances awarded him on 29 December 2006 2,000,000 Shares in connection with the recruitment or retention at nil-cost which will vest if he remains an employee of key individuals.
of the Company on 1 May 2009 the Share Award.
The Share Award will vest in its entirety on a change ii The PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan of control of the Company or on termination of his The primary purpose of the PartyGaming Plc Executive employment for any reason other than for cause.
Share Option Plan the Executive FMV Plan is to focus participants on long-term financial performance.
Share Plans The Executive FMV Plan provides for grants of fair Executive Directors, senior managers and other staff market value options Executive FMV options over are eligible to participate in the Companys long-term existing or newly issued Shares, or Depositary Interests, incentive arrangements which are currently structured to eligible employees including the Executive around four Share Plans described below.
In the first Directors and self-employed consultants of the Group.
two months of 2007 the Remuneration Committee The exercise of any options granted under the Executive undertook a consultation with some of the Companys FMV Plan is subject to the satisfaction of corporate largest institutional Shareholders regarding the performance targets set over three years.
Although the Companys long-term incentive arrangements.
Executive FMV Plan was adopted in June 2005, the As a result of this consultation the Company adopted Company first issued awards under the Executive FMV the PartyGaming Plc All-Employee Option Plan and Plan to the Executive Directors only on 11 May 2007, in PartyGaming Plc Performance Share Plan on 21 March conjunction with the introduction of the two new Share 2007 and started making awards under these plans as Plans detailed below.
Awards up to 200% of salary are well as making awards for the first time under the made annually and the awards made to-date are existing PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan.
fully exercisable if the growth in Clean EPS equals or exceeds 15% per annum over a three year period, with no re-testing.
The Remuneration Committee is of the view that it is appropriate to use an absolute EPS measure rather than, for example, a relative measure based on UK inflation index as the Company PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 generates only a small proportion of its revenues in the On 11 May 2007 Mitch Garber and Martin Weigold UK.
The Remuneration Committee will review this were granted at no cost awards under the PSP Plan performance condition prior to each future grant to over 1,160,000 Shares and 883,600 Shares respectively, ensure that it remains appropriately challenging.
equal in value to 100% of salary.
These awards vest subject to the Companys Total Shareholder Return On 11 May 2007 Mitch Garber and Martin Weigold were TSR performance over the three-year period from granted at no cost an Executive FMV option each over 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2009 compared to the 1,160,000 Shares and 883,600 Shares respectively, equal median TSR of a sector comparator group comprising in value to 100% of salary.
These Executive FMV options Ladbrokes, William Hill, Sportingbet, Bwin, 888 Holdings, Governance will vest in full on 31 March 2010 only if the Companys Paddy Power, Unibet and Cryptologic.
The threshold Clean EPS equals or exceeds 15% per annum over the 119 for vesting at which 25% will vest, will be TSR equalling period 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2009.
The strike the median of the comparator group, rising on a price for exercising these Executive FMV options is straight-line basis to 100% vesting if the Companys TSR 45.75 pence per Share.
exceeds the median by 10% per annum calculated To date Executive FMV options have only been granted over the three-year period.
It is estimated that to the Executive Directors and have been made over outperformance of the median by 10% per annum is a total of 2,043,600 Shares representing 0.05% of the broadly equivalent to upper quartile performance over issued ordinary share capital.
The initial share price is the average of the daily mid-market closing prices of a share for the three iii The PartyGaming Plc All-Employee Option Plan calendar months ending on 31 December 2006 and The primary purpose of the PartyGaming Plc the share price at the end of the performance period All-Employee Option Plan the FMV Plan is to align the is the average of the daily mid-market closing prices interests of employees with Shareholders.
All employees of a Share for the three calendar months ending on with the exception of the Executive Directors are eligible 31 December 2009.
There will be no re-testing and to receive annual awards of fair market value options vesting will occur as soon as reasonably practicable under the FMV Plan FMV options, as follows: after the end of the performance period and once the normal annual grants of between 40% and 170% of Remuneration Committee has determined the extent salary.
Awards of up to 300% of salary in exceptional to which the performance condition has been satisfied.
circumstances e. g. initial awards on recruitment : In addition to satisfaction of the TSR performance and target, vesting is also subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisfied that actual TSR performance options to vest on continued employment: 50% after over the three-year period is a genuine reflection of the 2.5 years and 50% after three years: initial awards Companys performance.
e. g. on recruitment to vest in one-sixth tranches every six months over three years.
The Remuneration Committee will review the TSR performance condition prior to each future grant to The Remuneration Committee recognises that whilst it is ensure that it remains appropriately challenging.
PSP unusual for a UK-listed company to grant time-vesting Plan awards have also been made to certain senior option awards, it considers it essential to attract executives during the year.
To date awards over a total talented executives from around the world, to attract of 4,374,588 Shares have been made representing the best talent to Gibraltar, and also to help ensure the 0.11% of the issued ordinary share capital.
continued retention of the Companys existing talent.
The first awards under this plan were made on 11 May B. Dilution, funding, voting and dividend entitlement 2007 and to date FMV options have been made over The exercise of Nil-Cost options is satisfied by the transfer a total of 71,685,982 Shares 1.74% of the issued to participants of Shares held in the Employee Trust ordinary share capital.
In accordance with the FMV established prior to Admission.
Such Nil-Cost option Plan rules, no FMV options have been awarded to the exercises therefore have no dilutive effect on other Executive Directors.
Shareholders or Depositary Interest Holders entering the register after 30 June 2005 and will have no cash impact iv The PartyGaming Plc Performance Share Plan on the Company.
International Financial Reporting The primary purpose of the PartyGaming Plc Standards, however, require that the fair value of these Performance Share Plan PSP Plan is to focus Nil-Cost options be amortised through the income participants on long-term external performance.
statement over their vesting period, based on the Senior managers including the Executive Directors Groups estimate of the Shares that will eventually vest.
are eligible for annual share awards under the PSP Plan of up to 200% of salary for Executive Directors The vesting of awards made under the Executive FMV and up to 40% of salary for senior managers in normal Plan, FMV Plan and PSP Plan can be satisfied by the circumstances 300% in exceptional circumstances.
issue of new Shares or the transfer of existing Shares in the Employee Trust.
For the time-being Executive FMV Plan and FMV Plan awards will be satisfied by the issue of new Shares and PSP Plan awards will be satisfied by the transfer of existing Shares in the Employee Trust.
In PartyGaming Plc PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Annual report 2007 Remuneration report any 10 year period, not more than 10% of the issued limit as it will operate on an all-employee basis.
As at ordinary share capital of the Company may be issued 29 February 2008 a total of 6,418,188 Shares had been or committed to be issued under the Executive FMV committed to be awarded under the Executive FMV Plan, FMV Plan and PSP Plan.
As at 29 February 2008 Plan and PSP Plan, representing 0.16% of the ordinary 78,104,170 Shares had been committed to be awarded issued share capital of the Company.
in total under the Executive FMV Plan, FMV Plan and Nil-Cost Plan, Executive FMV Plan, FMV Plan and PSP PSP Plan, representing 1.90% of the ordinary issued share Plan participants are not entitled to vote or receive capital of the Company.
In addition, in any 10 year dividends in respect of Shares relating to awards which period, not more than 5% of the issued ordinary share Governance Governance are unvested or vested but unexercised.
The Employee capital of the Company may be issued or committed Trust has waived the rights to vote or receive dividends 120 to be issued under the Executive FMV Plan and PSP in respect of the Shares it holds.
2 Following exercise 300,000 Shares were gifted by Mitch Garber to the Employee Trust.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Vested Exercised Number of Number of Shares over Number of Shares over which awards Shares over which awards remain which granted Exercise unvested or awards during the price of unexercised Executive granted on year to award at Director type 1 January 31 December granted Number Number 31 December of award 2007 2007 pence Lapsed Expiry date Date of Shares Date of Shares 2007 Martin Governance Weigold Nil-Cost Plan 17,795,552 nil nil 31.03.07 1,977,282 nil nil nil 17,795,552 06.04.15 121 30.06.07 1,977,282 option 30.09.07 1,977,282 granted 31.12.07 1,977,282 on 06.04.05 29.12.16 option granted 29.12.06 Executive nil 883,60045.75 nil nil nil nil nil 883,600 11.05.17 FMV Plan PSP Plan nil 883,600 nil nil nil nil nil nil 883,600 Vest automatically if performance condition satisfied No awards under the Share Plans have been granted to His Nil-Cost option granted on 29 December 2006 will Non-Executive Directors.
vest in full upon the termination of his employment by the Company for any reason other than for cause.
The future vesting of Mitch Garbers Nil-Cost options In the event of a change of control of the Company, are conditional on his continued employment by the his December 2006 Nil-Cost option will vest in full and Company on the relevant vesting dates, save as his April 2006 Nil-Cost option will either be rolled-over described as follows.
In the event of his resignation into an appropriate number of shares in the acquiring or the termination of his employment by the Company company vesting on the same basis or, if a roll-over is for cause, he will be entitled to exercise his Nil-Cost not provided, then he will be entitled to exercise the options only in respect of the Shares which have vested April 2006 Nil-Cost option in respect of the Shares which as at the date the notice of resignation or termination would have vested in the 12 months following the date is given notice date.
If employment is terminated of the change of control.
by the Company for any reason other than for cause then, subject to him entering into a written waiver and release of all claims against the Group relating to his employment or its termination, he will in addition be entitled to exercise his Nil-Cost option granted on 19 April 2006 in respect of the Shares which would have vested in the 12 months following the notice date.
PartyGaming Plc PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Annual report 2007 Remuneration report The future vesting of Martin Weigolds Nil-Cost options The service agreements grant entitlements to a salary, is conditional on his continued employment by the discretionary bonus, participation in the Companys Company on the relevant vesting dates, save as long-term incentive plans, private medical insurance, described as follows.
In the event of his resignation or permanent health insurance and life assurance.
the termination of his employment by the Company In accordance with the Code, each Executive for cause, he will be entitled to exercise his Nil-Cost Directors employment is terminable by either party options only in respect of the Shares which have vested on 12 months written notice.
The Company may elect as at the date the notice of resignation or termination to pay an Executive Director compensation in lieu of is given notice date.
If employment is terminated Governance Governance notice.
Such a payment would comprise 12 months by the Company for any reason other than for cause salary at the Directors then current basic rate plus a 122 then, subject to him entering into a written waiver and cash payment to compensate for the value of any lost release of all claims against the Group relating to his benefits under the Service Agreement.
A compensation employment or its termination, he will in addition be payment is payable where the requisite 12 months entitled to exercise his Nil-Cost options in respect of notice is not given to the Executive Director or where the Shares which would have vested in the 12 months the Executive Director terminates by giving 12 months following the notice date.
In the event of a change of notice and the Company does not wish the Executive control of the Company his Nil-Cost options will either be Director to serve his notice.
If a period of notice is served rolled-over into an appropriate number of shares in the then the compensation payment is reduced pro rata.
acquiring company vesting on the same basis or, if rollIn the event that an Executive Directors contract over is not provided, then he will be entitled to exercise is terminated for cause e. g. gross misconduct, the his Nil-Cost options in respect of the Shares which would Company may terminate the contract with immediate have vested in the 12 months following the date of the effect and no compensation would be payable, change of control.
in which case the Executive Director is not under any The future vesting of Mitch Garber and Martin Weigolds obligation to mitigate loss on his part and any such Executive FMV and PSP Plan awards are conditional payment will be in full and final settlement of any claims on each of them continuing to be employed by the the Executive Director may have against the Company.
Company on the relevant vesting dates and the Neither service agreement provides for the payment relevant performance conditions being satisfied, save of compensation to the Executive Director in the event that in the event that employment ceases before an of a change of control of the Company.
Executive FMV or PSP Plan award vests owing to factors such as injury, disability or ill health, then unless the Each Executive Director is subject to certain restrictive Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, covenants during the appointment and for a period subject to the satisfaction of the performance of 12 months following the termination of the conditions, a proportion of an award may vest.
An Executive Directors Nil-Cost, Executive FMV and PSP Executive Director service contracts Plan awards are dealt with in accordance with the terms Mitch Garber and Martin Weigold were appointed of his grant letters.
Executive Directors under terms of service agreements with the Company dated 22 March 2006 and 4 April 2005 respectively.
These agreements are governed by English law.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Departing Chief Executive Officer entitlements Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment and remuneration On 5 March 2008 PartyGaming announced that Mitch Garber had served notice that he would not be The Non-Executive Directors each entered into a letter extending his employment beyond 1 May 2009. of appointment, the terms of which are governed by Consequently, the Remuneration Committee has English law.
agreed with Mitch Garber that he shall be entitled to Rod Perry and Tim Bristow were appointed under his basic salary and benefits or payment in lieu for the appointment letters dated 17 April 2006 and 4 May 2007 period to 1 May 2009.
His living allowance will only be respectively.
Stephen Box, John Davy, Emilio Gomez Governance paid whilst he remains physically resident in Gibraltar and Lord Moonie were all appointed under and he will not be entitled to any further payments 123 appointment letters dated 13 December 2007. under the senior management bonus scheme.
The independent Non-Executive Directors Rod Perry, He will be entitled to all options vesting and retention Tim Bristow, Stephen Box and Lord Moonie are entitled bonus payments due in the period to 1 May 2009. to an annual fee of 130,000 per annum plus 20,000 The Remuneration Committee believes that this if they chair one or more of the Boards committees arrangement is necessary in order to keep Mitch 2007: 150,000 including fees for chairing Board Garber incentivised during his notice period and to Committees.
The non-independent Non-Executive ensure an orderly and seamless transition to the new Directors John Davy and Emilio Gomez are entitled Chief Executive Officer.
to a lower fee of 100,000 per annum in recognition Chairmans terms of appointment and remuneration of the fact that they cannot be members of the Audit or Remuneration Committees.
The remuneration of the The Chairman of the Board, Michael Jackson, joined Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Executive the Group in March 2005 and has an appointment letter Directors and the levels of remuneration reflect the dated 31 May 2005 governed by English law, the terms time commitment and responsibilities of the particular of which, with effect from 30 June 2005, provide for an Non-Executive role as well as the market rates paid to initial fixed term until 21 March 2008.
The Company may Non-Executive Directors generally.
terminate the appointment by giving 12 months notice to expire on or at any time after 21 March 2008.
The Each of the Non-Executive Directors is entitled to Chairman may terminate the appointment at any time reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred by giving six months notice.
The appointment is in the course of their duties, the use of office facilities otherwise subject to the provisions of the Articles.
in Gibraltar and directors and officers liability insurance cover.
The Chairman is entitled to an annual fee of 525,000 2007: 525,000 for his services, reimbursement of reasonable expenses and to the provision of office facilities and secretarial support at the Companys offices in Gibraltar.
The Chairman does not participate in the Companys bonus or Share Plans.
The Chairman is subject to certain restrictive covenants during the appointment and for a period of 12 months following the termination of the appointment.
PartyGaming Plc PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Annual report 2007 Remuneration report The appointments may be terminated by either party giving one months notice and are subject to the provisions of the Articles.
The Non-Executive Directors are subject to certain restrictive covenants during their appointments and for a period of 12 months following the termination of their appointments.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any of the Companys incentive or Share Plans.
External appointments All Executive Directors are required to seek the consent of the Board before accepting external appointments as Non-Executive Directors of companies outside the Group.
None of the Executive Directors is currently a director of a company outside the Group or received a fee in respect of such a position during the year to 31 December 2007.
Total shareholder return The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require the Remuneration Committee to set out a graph showing the total shareholder return of the Companys Shares against the total shareholder return performance of a suitable index for the period since the Companys IPO.
In previous years the Directors chose the FTSE 100 Index as the comparator index because it is widely used and the Company was a constituent member until October 2006.
The UIGEA, which was passed in October 2006, caused the Companys share price to fall 70% in the last quarter of 2006 and led to the Company leaving the FTSE 100 Index and becoming instead a Rod Perry constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
Consequently, for this Remuneration Report the Directors have chosen to use Chairman of the Remuneration Committee both the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 indices as comparators.
5 March 2008 The graph below plots the value of an investment of 100 in the Companys Shares and in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 indices from Admission to 31 December 2007.
The change in the value of the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 indices holdings reflects any changes in the constituent companies over the period.
The value of dividend income is treated as reinvested in the period.
