DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee and Advisers Reference is made on page 44 of the Corporate Governance Statement, where there is a summary of the role of the remuneration committee.
Cairns remuneration committee operates within terms of reference set by the Board.
These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the remuneration committee remains up to date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, its strategy and the business environment in which it operates.
The deliberations and decisions of the remuneration committee are governed by the provisions in the Listing Rules and the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules and the remuneration committee has followed these provisions and those of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
As and when the remuneration committee deems appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from the Companys legal advisers, Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP and auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, in respect of the Companys share option schemes and long-term incentive plans.
Advice obtained from Ernst & Young LLP is purely in relation to their independent verification of the Companys performance against performance criteria applicable to the Companys share option schemes and long-term incentive plans.
The current members of the remuneration committee are Hamish Grossart chairman, Ed Story, Mark Tyndall and Todd Hunt.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are not members of the remuneration committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and are consulted in respect of certain of its proposals although they are not consulted or involved in any discussions in respect of their own remuneration.
The remuneration committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall remuneration policy for the executive directors, the Chairman and the members of the GMB.
The remuneration committee also determines, within the terms of the agreed policy and having consulted with the Chairman and the Chief Executive about their proposals, specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors, including pension rights and any compensation payments to be paid on termination.
Remuneration Policy Cairns policy on executive directors remuneration for the current year and subsequent financial years is that the overall remuneration package should be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high quality individuals capable of achieving the Groups objectives and thereby enhance shareholder value.
The package is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, in relation to the variable pay element, the package is weighted more towards long-term performance.
Each executive directors remuneration package currently consists of basic salary, benefits, annual performance related bonuses, a long-term incentive plan, a defined contribution pension if appropriate and life assurance of four times basic annual salary.
The package is designed to support the Groups business strategy and to provide an appropriate incentive to maximise individual and corporate performance, whilst ensuring that overall rewards are market competitive.
Details of the individual components of the package and of contracts are given below.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors takes the form solely of fees, which are agreed by the executive members of the Board and the Chairman, having taken independent advice on appropriate levels, within an overall limit determined by shareholders.
The fees are designed to attract experienced individuals and reflect the responsibilities of the role.
The fees stated are in respect of all responsibilities undertaken by the non-executive directors, including membership of Board committees.
Basic Salary and Benefits Basic salary is reviewed annually by the remuneration committee and any changes take effect from 1 January each year.
For the year 2008, the basic salaries of the executive directors were retained at 2007 levels and are 480,000 for Sir Bill Gammell, 350,000 for Dr Mike Watts, 300,000 for each of Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy, and 250,000 for each of Jann Brown and Simon Thomson.
The non-executive directors fees were also retained at 2007 levels, being 140,000 for Norman Murray, 90,000 for Hamish Grossart and 50,000 for each of Ed Story, Todd Hunt, Mark Tyndall and Andrew Shilston.
Andrew Shilston intends to retire as a non-executive director of the Company at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008.
Benefits available to the executive directors comprise a company car, permanent health insurance, private health insurance and death in service benefit.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 57 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Share Options Details of the Groups current share option plans are as follows: 1.
1996 Second Share Option Scheme 1996 Scheme 2.
2002 Unapproved Share Option Plan 2002 Plan 3.
2003 Approved Share Option Plan 2003 Plan 4.
Cairn India Share Option Schemes Cairn India Schemes.
1996 Scheme The 1996 Scheme was adopted in 1996 and expired in May 2006.
The date of grant of the last award of options under the 1996 Scheme was 1 October 2002.
Details of the options outstanding as at 31 December 2007 under the 1996 Scheme are set out in Note 7 of the Notes to the Accounts.
2002 Plan and 2003 Plan The principal difference between the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan is that the approval of the Inland Revenue was not sought for the 2002 Plan.
The 2003 Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2003 AGM and subsequently by the Inland Revenue.
The date of grant of the first award of options under the 2002 Plan was 18 March 2003.
The date of grant of the first award of options under the 2003 Plan was 30 June 2003.
Following the adoption of the 2006 Plan see below, no further awards will be granted under the 2002 Plan or the 2003 Plan.
The date of grant of the last award of options under these arrangements was 4 July 2006.
Options granted under the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan are exercisable three to ten years following the date of grant and are subject to performance conditions on exercise.
In the case of all outstanding options under these arrangements, the option holder may only exercise their awards if Cairns share price has increased by 5% on a compound basis over the period from the date of grant of options up to the date they are exercised.
In addition, the percentage increase in Cairns share price over the period must be at least equal to or greater than the percentage movement in the FTSE Oil & Gas Index.
2006 Plan The 2006 Plan was approved by shareholders at an EGM held in November 2006, conditional on the flotation of Cairn India becoming effective, which occurred on 9 January 2007.
The date of grant of the first award of options under the 2006 Plan was 9 January 2007.
No options will be granted under the 2006 Plan to the Companys executive directors or to any employee or director of the Cairn India Group.
The 2006 Plan, together with the 2006 LTIP described below, reflects the fact that, following the flotation of Cairn India, there are two distinct arms to the Groups business namely, a majority shareholding in Cairn India and an exploration and production business owned and operated by the Capricorn Group and therefore seeks to incentivise employees of the Group in relation to the arm s which they can affect.
The 2006 Plan enables selected employees excluding those that are employed by the Cairn India Group to be granted phantom options which are equity settled over units in the Capricorn Group see below under 2006 LTIP for how these units are created and valued.
On the exercise of an option, participants will generally become entitled to such number of Cairn shares as have a market value equal to the notional gain that they realise i. e. the difference between the notional exercise price attributable to their option and the price of the units in respect of which their option has been exercised.
However, the extent to which options become exercisable will be dependent on continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance conditions are met over a specified period.
All options granted under the 2006 Plan are currently subject to a Capricorn unit price target measured over a three-year performance period.
Under this target, vesting will occur as follows: Average annual compound growth in Percentage of Capricorn units comprised in option that vest Capricorn unit price over the performance period 0% Less than 5% 50% 5% 100% 10% or more 50%100% on a straight-line basis More than 5% but less than 10% Notwithstanding the above condition, no part of an option will vest unless the notional total shareholder return TSR of a Capricorn unit over the performance period is sufficient to place it at or above the median level in the same comparator group of companies that is used for the purposes of the Capricorn awards granted pursuant to the 2006 LTIP see below.
58 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED None of the directors hold any options under any of the Companys share option plans.
Since 1999, the long-term incentives for executive directors and certain other senior executives have been made pursuant to long-term incentive plans and therefore no options have been granted to these individuals under any of the Companys share option plans since that time.
Cairn India Schemes As part of the arrangements surrounding its flotation, Cairn India established the following share option schemes pursuant to which options to acquire its shares can be granted: the Cairn India Senior Management Plan: the Cairn India Employee Stock Option Plan 2006 : and the Cairn India Performance Option Plan 2006.
These arrangements brief details of which are set out in Note 7 of the Notes to the Accounts have been or will be used to grant options to selected employees and executive directors of Cairn India and its various subsidiary undertakings.
None of the executive directors of the Company participate, or will participate, in any of the Cairn India Schemes.
Long Term Incentive Plans Details of the Groups current LTIPs are as follows: 1.
Cairn Energy PLC Long Term Incentive Plan 2002 2002 LTIP.
Cairn Energy PLC Long Term Incentive Plan 2006 2006 LTIP.
2002 LTIP Details of directors awards granted pursuant to the 2002 LTIP, which was implemented in 2002, are given on pages 66 and 67.
The 2002 LTIP was superseded by the 2006 LTIP, further details of which are set out on pages 61 and 62.
The date of grant of the last award under the 2002 LTIP was 24 April 2006.
Participants have been granted Tier One and Tier Two awards under the 2002 LTIP.
Performance conditions for each are determined by the remuneration committee and the calculation of shares vesting based on these conditions is subject to independent verification by Ernst & Young LLP.
Performance Conditions Tier One A Tier One award is an award of Cairn shares with the vesting and release of all part of those shares being dependent upon the executive remaining an employee and achievement of performance conditions over a performance period of three years.
The vesting of all outstanding Tier One awards is subject to a TSR target which is calculated in two steps, each of which must be satisfied.
Step One First, the TSR of a Cairn share during the performance period is compared to the average TSR performance of the companies comprising the relevant FTSE Index the Index at the beginning and at the end of the performance period details of the FTSE Indices used are set out on page 60.
If Cairns TSR performance exceeds the average TSR performance of the Index, then the step one test has been passed.
The step two test is then used to calculate how many if any Cairn shares that are the subject of the award will vest.
Step Two Under step two, the TSR of Cairn shares is compared to the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group comprising exploration, production and integrated oil companies over the performance period details of the relevant comparator groups are set out on page 60.
Each company is then ranked in order of TSR performance.
Cairns position in the comparator group list then determines how many if any Cairn shares that are the subject of the award will vest, as follows: Percentage of Cairn shares comprised in Tier One Award that vest Ranking of Cairn in relevant comparator group 0% Below median 20% Median 100% Upper quartile or above 20%100% on a straight-line basis Between median and upper quartile In addition, no Tier One award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been a satisfactory and sustained improvement in Cairns underlying financial position and performance over the performance period.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance Conditions Tier Two A Tier Two award is a share appreciation right over a number of notional Cairn shares.
The maximum potential benefit a participant may receive under a Tier Two award is calculated by comparing the increase in Cairns share price over the performance period with the change in the average share price of the comparator group over the same period.
The increase in Cairns share price if any over the rise or fall in the average share price of the comparator group over the performance period is then multiplied by the number of notional shares that are the subject of the award.
This gives rise to a monetary figure which is then converted into an actual number of Cairn shares using the market value as at the date of vesting.
Where there has been a fall in Cairns TSR, no Tier Two award will vest.
Vesting of the Tier Two award is then subject to a further TSR target which is calculated in two steps, each of which must be satisfied.
Step One This step is the same as step one of the performance conditions in respect of Tier One.
Step Two Under step two, the TSR of Cairn shares is compared to the TSR of a share in each company comprised in the comparator group over the performance period.
As with Tier One awards, each company is then ranked in order of TSR performance.
Cairns position in the comparator group list then determines how many if any shares that are the subject of the award will vest, as follows: Percentage of Cairn shares comprised in Tier Two Award that vest Ranking of Cairn in relevant comparator group 0% Below upper quartile 40% Upper quartile 100% Number one position 40%100% on a straight-line basis Between upper quartile and number one position In addition, no Tier Two award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been a satisfactory and sustained improvement in Cairns underlying financial position and performance over the performance period.
Release of Shares Following Vesting At the end of the performance period, 50% of vested shares under both Tier One and Tier Two awards are transferred to participants immediately, and the remaining shares are transferred at the end of one year.
FTSE Indices Used for 2002 LTIP For the first step of the TSR target described on page 59, for 2004 and 2005 awards, the Companys performance is measured against the FTSE 250 Index.
The remuneration committee reviewed this performance condition in March 2006 and decided to measure awards made in 2006 against the FTSE 350 Index.
For awards prior to 2004, the Companys performance was measured against the FTSE Small Cap Index excluding investment trusts.
Comparator Groups Used for 2002 LTIP The table below shows the comparator groups applicable to: awards made in 2003 and 2004: awards made in 2005: and awards made in 2006.
The 2006 LTIP enables selected executive directors and employees excluding those that are employed by the Cairn India Group to be granted conditional awards over two separate pools of notional units, the first relating to Cairn India Cairn India Units and the second relating to the Capricorn Group Capricorn Units together, Units.
For the purposes of the 2006 LTIP, each of these Cairn India Units and Capricorn Units will be ascribed a notional price.
On any day, the price of a Cairn India Unit will be equal to the price of a Cairn India share, as quoted on the BSE and the NSE of India the Exchanges.
The price of a Capricorn Unit will be calculated by taking the total value of the Capricorn Group and dividing it by the number of Capricorn Units created for the purposes of the 2006 LTIP.
For these purposes, the value of the Capricorn Group will generally be determined by deducting i the value of the Companys holding in Cairn India: and ii the amount of any cash held by the Company that is to be returned to shareholders, from the total market capitalisation of the Company.
The extent to which an award over Cairn India Units a Cairn India Award or an award over Capricorn Units a Capricorn Award together, Awards vests will be dependent on continued employment within the Group and the extent to which predetermined performance conditions relating to Cairn India or the Capricorn Group are met over a specified period see below.
Following the vesting of an Award, the participant will then generally become entitled to such number of Cairn shares as have a market value equal to the aggregate price of the vested Units.
Only 50% of these shares will be transferred to the participant immediately.
The remaining 50% will be held for a further year.
The first Awards under the 2006 LTIP were made on 29 March 2007.
On each occasion that Awards are granted, the remuneration committee will determine whether a participant is granted a Cairn India Award or a Capricorn Award or both.
This decision will be based on the extent to which the ongoing role of the individual in question relates to the Companys holding in Cairn India or the business of the Capricorn Group or a mixture of both.
Notwithstanding this discretion, it is the remuneration committees intention that: on any occasion that the Companys Chief Executive is granted Awards, half those Awards will be Cairn India Awards and half will be Capricorn Awards: and on any occasion that Awards are granted to any other executive directors of the Company, not more than 75% of such Awards will be either Cairn India Awards or Capricorn Awards.
Performance Conditions The remuneration committee has decided that, initially, all Awards granted under the 2006 LTIP will be subject to a relative TSR target measured over a three-year performance period.
For the purposes of applying this measure to any Cairn India Award, the TSR of a Cairn India share will be used.
For a Capricorn Award, the condition will be based on the notional TSR of a Capricorn Unit.
Under the TSR condition, the extent to which a Cairn India Award or Capricorn Award vests will be determined by comparing the TSR of a Cairn India share or Capricorn Unit as appropriate over the performance period with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group.
Western Oil Sands, Inc delisted on 22 October 2007 and was replaced in the comparator group by Addax Petroleum, Inc with effect from that date.
Indago Petroleum Limited delisted in June 2007 and has been replaced by DNO ASA.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Vesting then takes place as follows: Percentage of Cairn India Units Capricorn Units Ranking of Cairn India share Capricorn Unit comprised in Award that vest against relevant comparator group 0% Below median 20% Median 100% Upper decile 20%100% on a straight-line basis Between median and upper decile In order to ensure that the 2006 LTIP adequately encourages and rewards exceptional performance, the terms of the above performance condition also provide that, where the TSR of a Cairn India share Capricorn Unit produces a ranking at or above the upper decile level in the appropriate comparator group, a participant will then be given the opportunity to increase the percentage of the relevant award that vests through the application of a multiplier that is linked to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period.
The way in which this multiplier operates is as follows: Multiplier applied to determine the number of TSR of a Cairn India share over TSR of a Capricorn Unit over Cairn India Units Capricorn Units that actually vest the performance period the performance period 1 40% or less 75% or less 1.33 80% or more 150% or more 11.33 on a straight-line basis Between 40% and 80% Between 75% and 150% Notwithstanding the performance of a Cairn India share or Capricorn Unit against the above targets, no part of any Award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period.
The 2006 LTIP is designed to provide the executive directors and other senior executives with a long-team incentive based on the performance of the particular arm of the business that they can affect.
As such, the performance conditions described above are deemed appropriate by the remuneration committee.
Individual Limits The total value of Units over which an individual may be granted Awards under the 2006 LTIP during the period commencing on 9 January 2007 i. e. the date of its adoption and ending on the final day of the Companys financial year ending 31 December 2007 could not exceed 400% of his her rate of annual base salary.
In any subsequent financial year of the Company, the total value of Units over which an individual may be granted Awards during that year will not exceed 300% of his her annual base salary save in exceptional circumstances where a 400% limit may be applied.
These limits are broadly consistent with those that applied under the 2002 LTIP and reflect the remuneration committees policy of placing a significantly higher weighting on variable pay rather than fixed pay.
Share Scheme Dilution In any ten-year rolling period, the number of shares which may be issued in connection with the 2006 LTIP and 2006 Plan, when added to the number of unissued shares which have been allocated in that same period under any other discretionary share scheme adopted by the Company, cannot exceed 5% of Cairns issued ordinary share capital.
In addition, in any ten-year rolling period, the number of shares which may be issued in connection with the 2006 LTIP and 2006 Plan, when added to the number of unissued shares which have been allocated in that same period under any other employees share scheme adopted by the Company, cannot exceed 10% of Cairns issued ordinary share capital.
Annual Cash Bonus Scheme Cairns annual cash bonus scheme applies to all employees and executive directors.
Bonuses under the scheme are based on individual and Company performance measures.
Individual performance is measured through the Companys performance management system.
Company performance measures are based on annually defined key performance indicators kPIs.
The kPIs for 2007 encompassed various portfolio growth and operational performance targets, the substantial majority of which were met.
For employees other than executive directors, only the individual and Company performance measures determine the overall bonus award.
The bonus award to the executive directors is subject to two additional performance measures, being performance against annually defined corporate objectives and reserve replacement performance.
For 2007, this resulted in one-quarter of the award being determined by individual performance, one quarter by Company performance, one quarter by performance against corporate objectives and one quarter by reserve replacement performance.
The corporate objectives for 2007 are commercially sensitive and are therefore excluded from this report, as are the 2008 corporate objectives.
62 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The maximum level of bonus award for the executive directors for 2007 was up to 100% of salary.
The bonuses awarded to the executive directors for performance in 2007 are shown in the table on page 66.
The maximum level of bonus award for other senior executives for 2007 was 40% of salary.
The bonus cap for all other employees for 2007 was between 25% and 40%.
The remuneration committee has the discretion to award bonuses in addition to those payable under the annual cash bonus scheme in recognition of particular efforts or achievements by employees, including executive directors.
In this regard, the remuneration committee approved a discretionary bonus award to the Chief Executive following the successful flotation of Cairn India.
This is shown in the table on page 66.
Pension Arrangements The Company is the principal employer for a defined contribution pension scheme in the Uk: the Cairn Energy PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme.
This scheme is non-contributory and all Uk employees aged 18 and over are eligible to participate in the scheme.
The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary 15% in respect of senior executives to the pension scheme on behalf of all qualifying employees.
Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown were members of the Cairn Energy PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme throughout 2007 and received a contribution to the scheme equal to 15% of their respective annual basic salaries.
Simon Thomson was a member of the Cairn Energy PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme for the period to 31 January 2007.
With effect from 1 February 2007, he instead elected to receive contributions into a self-invested personal pension plan.
In total during the year, Simon Thomson received a contribution equal to 15% of his annual basic salary.
Malcolm Thoms also has a personal pension plan and receives a contribution from the Company equal to 15% of his annual basic salary.
Sir Bill Gammell and Phil Tracy each receive an amount equivalent to 15% of their respective annual basic salaries in the form of additional salary as their pension arrangements are fully funded.
Further details of the contribution made by the Company in respect of each executive director are set out in the table on page 66.
The Company is also the principal employer for a Small Self-Administered Scheme.
Sir Bill Gammell is the sole member of this scheme.
The Company is not contractually obliged to make any contributions into this scheme on behalf of Sir Bill Gammell.
Service Contracts The Companys policy is for all executive directors to have contracts of service which can be terminated by either the director concerned or the Company on giving 12 months notice of termination.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of a directors employment, each of the directors is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to his her annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of appointment in terms of which he is appointed for a fixed three-year period, subject to the Companys Articles of Association, which provide for retirement by rotation at least once every three years.
The letters of appointment set out the time commitment expected by the Company and can be terminated with immediate effect by either the director concerned or the Company.
The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to fulfil his duties as a director of the Company.
None of the non-executive directors has any conflict of interest which has not been disclosed to the Board in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
The executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection on request and will be available for inspection before and during the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008.
Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment of the current directors of the Company are given in the table below.
Effective date Unexpired term Notice period Executive service contracts Sir Bill Gammell 19.02.03 n a 12 months Dr Mike Watts 19.02.03 n a 12 months Malcolm Thoms 19.02.03 n a 12 months Phil Tracy 06.02.04 n a 12 months Jann Brown 17.11.06 n a 12 months Simon Thomson 17.11.06 n a 12 months CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Effective date Unexpired term Notice period Non-executive letters of appointment Norman Murray 19.02.06 11 months None Hamish Grossart 19.02.06 11 months None Ed Story 19.02.06 11 months None Todd Hunt 14.05.06 13 months None Mark Tyndall 10.10.06 18 months None Andrew Shilston 08.11.07 31 months None Certain of the Companys executive directors serve as non-executive directors on the boards of other companies and are permitted to retain the fees relating to those positions.
Details of the positions held and the fees receivable are set out in the table below.
Position held Fees 2007 Executive Director Sir Bill Gammell Non-executive director, Artemis AiM VCT plc 12,500 1 Malcolm Thoms Non-executive director, Revus Energy AS 25,542 Phil Tracy Non-executive director, Vienco Group Limited 18,000 The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of executive directors accepting positions as non-executive directors of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments are not unduly onerous.
The appointment of any executive director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the Board.
In the case of a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only be given if the two companies do not compete in the same geographical area.
Note: 1 Payable partly in cash and partly in shares.
64 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance Graphs Both the FTSE 100 Index and FTSE 250 Index were selected as appropriate comparator indices for the two performance graphs shown below as although Cairn is currently a constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index, it was a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index for the majority of 2007.
The graphs compare Cairns TSR with that of the chosen indices.
The bar chart is presented as additional information to that required by the Companies Acts, as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
During 2007, the range of high and low market value of shares was 30.90 to 15.23.
2 The annual bonus for 2007 is payable in the subsequent financial year.
3 This bonus payment was made to Sir Bill Gammell in respect of the IPO and Sir Bill subsequently donated the full amount to charity.
4 This sum includes the payment of 42,373 to Phil Tracy as an allowance during his time spent in India from 1 November 2007 to the year end.
5 Jann Brown and Simon Thomson were appointed as directors on 17 November 2006.
The figures stated are in respect of the period from that date to 31 December 2006 and include the IPO bonuses detailed in the 2006 annual report.
6 This total includes a payment in respect of additional work on the IPO in 2006.
7 kevin Hart resigned as a director with effect from 17 November 2006.
The figures stated are in respect of the period from 1 January 2006 to that date.
LTIP Awards 2006 LTIP The Awards held by the executive directors pursuant to the 2006 LTIP are as follows: Director Cairn India Units Capricorn Units Sir Bill Gammell 515,118 897,196 Dr Mike Watts 187,803 981,308 Malcolm Thoms 482,923 280,374 Phil Tracy 321,949 560,748 Jann Brown 268,291 467,290 Simon Thomson 134,145 700,935 Under the 2006 LTIP, Cairn India Units and Capricorn Units are notional units of value relating to the Companys holding in Cairn India and Capricorn respectively.
All Cairn India Units were awarded at 1.86 per Unit the sterling equivalent of the flotation price of a Cairn India share and all Capricorn Units at 1.07 per Unit being the value of such a Unit as at the date of flotation of Cairn India, calculated in accordance with the provisions of the 2006 LTIP.
Each of the above awards will ordinarily vest on or around the third anniversary of grant, but only to the extent that the performance conditions described on pages 59 and 60 of this report are satisfied over a period of three years commencing on 9 January 2007 being the date of flotation of Cairn India.
The value of a participants vested Units will then be settled in the form of ordinary shares of the Company.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Vested Awards Details of awards which vested under the 2002 LTIP during 2007 are given in the table below.
Calculations to determine the number of shares vesting, based on the performance conditions described on pages 59 and 60 of this report, were carried out by Cairn and independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP.
By Order of the Board Duncan Wood Company Secretary 11 April 2008 68 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CAIRN ENERGY PLC We have audited the group and parent company financial statements the financial statements of Cairn Energy PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes 1 to 37.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing Uk and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial information, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions are not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Highlights, Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review, Operating and Exploration review, Corporate Responsibility, Financial Review, Risk Factors, Corporate Governance Statement, Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and other items listed in the table of contents.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 69 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CAIRN ENERGY PLC CONTINUED Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing Uk and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 11 April 2008 70 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
