Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 45 Remuneration report The following report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved conflict of interest arising from cross directorships.
Fees for serving as a by the Board for submission to the shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
committee member and chairing committees of the Board are described in the non-executive directors section of this report on page 52.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have audited the following items stipulated in law for their review: Advisors to the Remuneration Committee In developing remuneration strategy during the year, the Committee The table of directors remuneration and associated footnotes on page obtained its principal advice from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, 52 and the disclosure of the items comprising benefits in kind who were appointed by the Committee and provided no other services to the Company during 2007.
The tables of defined benefit and defined contribution pensions on pages 52 to 53 and associated footnotes The terms of engagement for the remuneration consultants are available The table of disclosure of directors share options and share awards to shareholders on request and on our website at www.
on pages 53 to 56 and associated footnotes.
The Group CEO is invited to attend all meetings of the Committee to In constitution and operation the Committee complies fully with the provide context and advice to the Committee on Group strategy and Combined Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing performance and senior executive pay strategy.
The Group Human Authority and as described in the corporate governance section of this Resources Director normally attends meetings to provide information report, on page 40. on wider remuneration strategy and practice within the Group.
The Chairman is invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The General Principal duties of the Remuneration Committee Counsel and Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the The Committee is a formal committee of the Board and is accountable to Committee.
None of the non Committee attendees are present as of shareholders through its annual remuneration report, which is voted on right, and do not attend when their own remuneration is discussed.
at the AGM, and remains committed to reflecting the best interests of shareholders and to the pursuit of best practice in remuneration policy.
Activities of the Remuneration Committee The continuing focus of the Committee is the maintenance of a strong link The Committees principal duties are as follows: between performance and reward.
It is the Committees view that the interests of shareholders are best served by ensuring a remuneration The determination of the terms and conditions and remuneration of structure which has a significant element of performance related pay, and the Chairman of the Board and the executive directors reinforces the culture of high performance and accountability that applies Overseeing the operation of the Companys share based long term at all levels throughout the Group.
incentive schemes, including approving the value and timing of awards and overseeing the operation of performance conditions The Committee meets as often as necessary throughout the year to Consideration of, and advice to the Board on, the Groups broader ensure that it is able to fully report to the Board and shareholders on all remuneration policy in relation to senior executives reporting to the relevant matters.
In 2007, the Committee met five times and the principal Group CEO the Executive Team.
business of those meetings included the following activities: The Committee presents a summary of its principal activities to The determination of performance conditions, and approval of awards, shareholders through this report, and the Committee Chairman attends under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP the AGM to answer questions from shareholders on the activities of the Conducting the annual review of base salaries for executive directors Committee and its remuneration policies.
and the Group CEOs recommendations for his Executive Team, and making appropriate recommendations to the Board The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference The consideration and approval of annual bonus payments for 2006 which are available to shareholders on request and on our website at The review of actual performance of the executive directors in 2006 www.
The Committee welcomes ongoing dialogue with against agreed goals and objectives shareholders on remuneration policy.
The review of proposed annual objectives and performance goals of Membership of the Remuneration Committee executive directors for 2007 During the year the directors who served on the Committee were John The ongoing review and monitoring of performance conditions and Maxwell Chairman, Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May.
All of the nonreports on performance for awards under the Share Matching Plan and executive directors on the Committee were determined by the Board to various share option grants be independent.
The attendance of members in 2007 is shown in the The ongoing review of share incentives generally, including the approval table on page 41. of changes of an administrative or regulatory nature Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions and they have no 46 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Remuneration report continued The determination of initial remuneration arrangements for Executive The observation of existing share ownership guidelines to further Team members who joined the Group in 2007 enhance the alignment of shareholder interests with those of executive directors The determination of termination arrangements for those members of the global Top 100 the Top 100 who left the Group in 2007 Incentive arrangements are leveraged so that only exceptional performance attracts the highest levels of award A review of the Committees terms of reference A balance of short and long term performance is used, incorporating The drafting of the remuneration report for the Annual Report and measures of financial performance, delivery of shareholder value and a Accounts 2007. robust assessment of personal contribution Remuneration policy principles Remuneration policy and practice is transparent to shareholders The Committees remuneration policy is consistent with the high That, where relevant, there is consideration of environmental, social and performance culture across the Group.
The key principles which underpin governance risks when determining remuneration for executive the remuneration policy are: directors and senior managers to ensure that positive behaviours are reinforced.
Total remuneration is set at a level which enables the recruitment, retention and motivation of high quality executive talent Elements of remuneration There is a strong and visible link between remuneration and Remuneration for executive directors in 2008 will consist of the four performance principal elements described in the table below, of which only base salary is pensionable: Executive remuneration and shareholder interests are strongly aligned.
This is reflected in the design of the LTIP, which provides a coinvestment opportunity Remuneration Purpose Delivery Policy detail Base salary To reflect the market Cash Reviewed annually, changes effective from 1 April value of the role and the Monthly Benchmarked against a selected group of FTSE skills and experience of 100 financial services companies Pensionable the individual Positioned appropriately against similar roles, with reference to the median position of similar roles in the comparator companies Annual To incentivise the Maximum opportunity of 133% of base salary Financial targets are measured against combined performance delivery of annual goals operating ratio for Group and business areas Up to 100% of annual base salary is paid as cash bonus at Group, business area Individual targets are approved by the Up to 33% of base salary is awarded in the form and individual levels Remuneration Committee of compulsorily Deferred Shares under the LTIP Up to 33% of cash bonus paid may be reinvested Annual in voluntarily Deferred Shares under the LTIP Non pensionable LTIP To reward the creation Performance shares subject to stretching Discretionary awards of sustained growth in performance conditions Participation reviewed annually shareholder value Matching shares awarded linked to Deferred TSR performance measured against a peer group Shares, also subject to performance conditions of companies, together with an ROE measure Annual awards that may vest after three years Full details of performance measures and vesting Non pensionable described on page 56 Pension To provide appropriate Deferred income Defined benefit scheme or defined contribution and competitive post scheme, and or cash allowance in lieu of pension Paid monthly retirement benefits contributions This structure is replicated for other members of the Executive Team.
Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 47 As an indication of the balance of remuneration, including long term For the purposes of the charts, the bonus value is based on the cash bonus incentives LTIs, the following charts illustrate the remuneration plus the fair value of the compulsory Deferred Shares.
The LTI value is attributable to the executive directors over the year excluding based on the fair value of awards of Performance Shares and half of the allowances and pension provision : maximum potential number of Matching Shares that may vest subject to performance relating to voluntary and compulsory Deferred Shares under the LTIP.
Details of how the fair values have been calculated are set Andy Haste out in note 27 on page 111.
Base salary Salary Policy: Base salary is set with reference to the median level for 24% equivalent roles in similar companies.
Bonus 29% Base salaries for executive directors and members of the Executive Team LTIs are set on appointment with reference to market data.
To enable the 47% Group to compete for the most talented executives, the Committee relates base salary levels to the median level for equivalent roles in similar companies facing similar levels of complexity and challenge in the UK and internationally.
In the UK, the comparator group most frequently used is a GEORGE CULMER George Culmer selected group of financial services companies within the FTSE 100.
The Committee is alert to market concerns surrounding base pay Salary Salary increases and closely monitors basic pay and total remuneration for 26% 26% executive directors in the light of both the market and individual and Bonus Bonus corporate performance.
The Committee is confident that the structures 30% 30% and processes in place for reviewing annual salary increases are robust.
LTIs LTIs 44% 44% Base salaries are primarily reviewed on the basis of market movements.
The Committee analyses the remuneration details of a comparator group comprising 14 FTSE 100 financial services companies and awards salary increases with reference to the median position for equivalent roles in that group.
SIMON LEE Simon Lee The 2007 salary review process resulted in the following increases, effective from 1 April 2007, for the executive directors as at 31 Salary Salary December 2007 : 23% 23% Bonus Bonus Position Increase Base salary 22% 22% Andy Haste Group CEO 6.2% 855,000 LTIs LTIs George Culmer Chief Financial Officer 8.6% 480,000 55% 55% Simon Lee International CEO 6.0% 371,000 Bridget McIntyre UK CEO 6.1% 390,000 The following table sets out the base salaries of UK based executives BRIDGET MCINTYRE Bridget McIntyre below Board level on a banded basis as at 31 December 2007.
No such executive received a base salary in excess of 350,000.
Salary Salary Base salary range Number of employees 25% 25% 250,001 and over 8 Bonus Bonus 200,001 250,000 9 26% 26% 150,001 200,000 34 LTIs LTIs 49% 49% 48 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Remuneration report continued Annual performance bonus Executives are also offered the opportunity to voluntarily invest up to Policy: Bonus payments are related to stretching performance targets 33% of the cash element of their bonus into Deferred Shares.
In 2007 and are capped at 133% of base salary.
For maximum bonuses to be under the LTIP, an award of Matching Shares was made on a pro rata achieved outstanding performance must be demonstrated.
basis to the Deferred Shares.
Matching Shares may vest subject to the performance conditions described on page 56 of this report.
The executive directors and the Executive Team participate in an annual bonus plan.
If stretching targets are achieved, participants receive a cash The Committee reserves the right to reduce the permissible investment bonus of up to 50% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 16.5% below this level.
However, the LTIP will continue to operate on the same of base salary.
For outstanding performance, a cash bonus of up to 100% terms in 2008. of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 33% of base salary are achievable.
Deferred Shares are described in the section headed share Share based long term incentive awards based long term incentive awards below.
Policy: To provide annual share awards to executives to ensure alignment with shareholder interests solely through the LTIP.
Except in The targets used for determining the amount of bonus payable are a exceptional circumstances, no other discretionary share plan will be combination of stretching business performance targets and the results of used to make awards.
a structured assessment of each executives performance against detailed and specific personal objectives.
Prior to the approval of the LTIP, two share incentive plans were operated: Financial targets are measured against combined operating ratio COR The 2004 Share Matching Plan, which was designed to operate for two targets which are the preferred measures for the Group.
The final awards under this plan were made in 2005 single indicator which most fully captures the underlying strength and The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
Regular awards under the performance of an insurance business.
To achieve focused incentivisation, ESOS were discontinued from 2006, but the ESOS remains available for for each executive director financial targets are weighted towards the use in exceptional circumstances, such as executive recruitment.
area of the business for which they have primary responsibility.
The primary long term incentive is the LTIP, the key features of which The financial targets that apply to the annual performance bonus for Andy and associated policies are summarised in the sections below.
Haste and George Culmer are a combination of targets relating to the overall Group COR result and the COR results of the regional operating Awards under the LTIP will be funded through a combination of new businesses.
The financial targets for Bridget McIntyres and Simon Lees issues and shares purchased in the market.
annual performance bonus are weighted towards the UK and International businesses respectively while also retaining a target for the Conditional awards of Performance Shares Group COR result as a whole.
Participants may receive a conditional award of shares with the grant level and performance condition determined by the Committee prior to each Personal targets are reviewed and approved by the Committee early in grant.
Executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top the financial year.
The Group CEOs performance is assessed annually by 100 will be eligible for awards of Performance Shares.
the Chairman of the Board and members of the Committee.
The Group CEO carries out a similar assessment for each of his direct reports, subject It is intended that, in 2008, awards of Performance Shares to executive to review and sign off by the Committee in the case of executive directors will be limited to a maximum face value of 100% of base salary, directors.
Assessments also take account of appropriate leadership style other than in exceptional circumstances.
Awards of Performance Shares and each executive receives a performance rating against the standard to members of the Executive Team in 2008 will be limited to a maximum scale used at all levels in the business.
face value of 80% of base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances.
Account will be taken of personal performance in determining the scale Bonuses paid to executive directors in respect of the performance year of the award to each executive.
For executives below this level, awards 2007 are included in the table of directors emoluments on page 52. are made based on a formula which relates the size of award to The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the bonus payments performance and potential, as measured through the annual made in respect of 2007 reflect the consistently strong COR results performance appraisal process.
across the Group throughout 2007, and the contribution made by each executive director.
In any year, the face value of Performance Shares granted to any individual will be limited to 150% of base salary in normal circumstances subject to UK based executives who are members of the Top 100 participate in a an overriding cap of 250% of base salary in exceptional circumstances such bonus plan which is structured in the same way and measured using the as an executive recruitment.
same metrics as the plan described above.
For outstanding performance a cash bonus of up to 65% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 33% of the cash bonus are achievable.
Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 49 Performance Shares will vest after three years subject to the performance exceptional nature which in the view of the Committee do not reflect condition see below and provided the individual remains in employment the underlying performance of the business with the Group other than in exceptional circumstances such as death or 50% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to TSR retirement at normal retirement age.
performance against a comparator group of UK and International financial services companies.
Below median performance, no part of Deferred Shares the award subject to the TSR performance condition will vest.
At As described in the annual performance bonus section on page 48, median performance, 25% of the award will vest.
At upper quintile top executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 20%, 100% of the award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight line basis may be granted Deferred Shares as part of the annual bonus.
These in between Deferred Shares may not be withdrawn and will normally vest three years Additionally, before any shares subject to the TSR condition vests, the from the date of grant subject to continued employment with the Group.
Committee must be satisfied that the Companys TSR performance is reflective of underlying financial performance.
In addition executives may invest an additional portion of bonus in Deferred Shares on a voluntary basis.
Voluntary Deferred Shares are not The TSR comparator group will consist of the following companies: at risk of forfeiture and may be withdrawn at any time but the right to Matching Shares would lapse on those Deferred Shares withdrawn.
Comparator companies: Aegon AXA Conditional awards of Matching Shares Alleanza Allianz Executives may receive a conditional award of Matching Shares pro rata to AVIVA Baloise the number of Deferred Shares held.
At threshold performance the Fortis Generali matching ratio will be 0.625:1.
The maximum matching ratio for Matching Legal & General Munich Re Shares: Deferred Shares will be 2.5:1, calculated on the gross value of the QBE Swiss Re bonus invested in Deferred Shares.
Details of the performance condition Zurich Financial Services used are described below.
During 2007, AGF ceased to be listed and will be removed from the Executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 will comparator group for the purpose of measuring TSR performance for be eligible for awards of Matching Shares.
The Committee reviews, on an ongoing basis, the composition of the comparator group and will consider adding Matching Shares will vest after three years subject to the performance companies for future awards in the event that the number of constituent condition see below and provided the individual remains in employment companies drops below an acceptable level.
with the Group other than in exceptional circumstances such as death or retirement at normal retirement age.
The Groups TSR will be independently calculated and verified by the Committee for the purposes of awards made in 2008 under the LTIP.
Performance conditions The Committee will determine the performance condition for each grant The vesting of Matching Shares related to voluntarily Deferred Shares will of Performance Shares and Matching Shares, with performance measured be determined solely by the ROE performance condition.
over a single period of three years with no provision to retest.
In 2008 grants of Performance Shares and Matching Shares related to non ROE has been selected as the measure of financial performance as it is voluntarily Deferred Shares will be subject to a performance condition one of the key measures of overall business performance and is visible consisting of a combination of return on equity ROE and total externally to shareholders.
These are set out below: The TSR performance condition has been designed to provide 50% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to ROE alignment between executive remuneration and shareholder performance.
In line with the positive outlook on the future prospects interests and to ensure that an element of the package is linked of the Group, the Remuneration Committee has approved an increase directly to share price performance.
The comparator group has in the ROE performance targets for awards made in 2008.
If underlying been selected to ensure that performance is compared fairly against average annual ROE over three years commencing with the financial a group of similar companies operating in a similar competitive year of grant is below 12% 10% for awards made in 2006 and 2007, environment.
The use of ROE and TSR in combination provides a no part of the award subject to the ROE performance condition will balanced approach to the measurement of Company performance vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is 12% 10% over the longer term.
for awards made in 2006 and 2007, 25% of the award will vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is 18% 16% for awards made in 2006 and 2007, 100% of the award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight line basis in between.
Underlying ROE will exclude items of an 50 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Remuneration report continued Dilution Until 31 December 2005, George Culmer participated in a contributory Dilution levels for all schemes are held strictly within the Association of defined contribution occupational pension scheme the Royal & SunAlliance British Insurers ABI limits 10% over 10 years for all schemes and 5% for UK Pension Scheme 2002.
From 1 January 2006 this scheme was discretionary schemes.
The dilution levels compared to ABI limits as at replaced by the Royal & SunAlliance Stakeholder Pension Plan the 31 December 2007 were: Stakeholder Plan, a contributory defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme.
George Culmer became a member of the Stakeholder ABI limit RSA dilution Plan from 1 January 2006.
In 2008, as in 2007, he will receive employer 10% over 10 years for all share schemes: 5.47% contributions worth 15% of base salary, subject to an employee 5% over 10 years for discretionary schemes: 3.22% contribution of 5% of base salary up to the HM Revenue and Customs annual allowance as applicable.
Additionally, George Culmer receives a Share ownership guidelines taxable cash allowance of 15% of base salary, in order to bring his overall Strengthened share ownership guidelines were introduced in 2004 for pension provision closer to the market median.
executive directors and members of the Executive Team.
Simon Lee elected not to join a Group pension plan on appointment, and The Group CEO is required to build and maintain a minimum receives a taxable cash allowance of 17.5% of base salary instead.
shareholding in the Company equivalent to 150% of base salary.
The other executive directors have a target of 100% of base salary and other Bridget McIntyre was enrolled in the Stakeholder Plan as from 1 January members of the executive team have a target of 50% of base salary.
In 2008, as in 2007, she will receive employer contributions worth In order to ensure that progress is made towards this target, executives 15% of base salary, subject to an employee contribution of 5% of base are required to retain shares to a value of 50% of the net of tax gain salary up to the HM Revenue and Customs annual allowance as under all executive schemes until the relevant guideline is attained.
Additionally, Bridget McIntyre receives a taxable cash This requirement will apply to awards under the LTIP, and will continue allowance of 15% of base salary, in order to bring her overall pension to apply to awards under all existing long term incentive plans.
provision closer to the market median.
The following table shows the number of shares including voluntary In addition, the executive directors participate in a number of benefits Deferred Shares held under the LTIP held by each executive director at available to other senior managers including life assurance at the rate of 31 December 2007 and the increase in shareholding over the year.
four times base salary together with a spouse dependant annuity, sickness and ill health early retirement benefits and private medical insurance.
Shares held Increase % salary They also have a choice between a company car and a monthly cash car Andy Haste 1,070,829 33% 186% allowance.
In common with other employees, the executive directors are George Culmer 244,407 52% 75% eligible to participate in the Royal & SunAlliance Sharesave plan.
Simon Lee 177,136 609% 71% Bridget McIntyre 121,767 388% 46% Service contracts The Committees policy on service contracts is that they should be Assuming share price of 148.2p the closing middle market price on the last dealing day of the year.
subject to a maximum notice period of one year.
Generally in the event of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds the Committees policy would be to seek and apply mitigation.
None of the Pension provision and other benefits executive directors have current terms in their service contracts which Policy: Reasonable provision in line with arrangements made in similar allow them additional rights or payment in the event of a reconstruction companies will be made to allow executives to plan effectively for their or amalgamation of the Group.
retirement but the Committee will not compensate executives affected by the tax limits effective 6 April 2006.
Director Effective date of contract Notice period Andy Haste 2 April 2003 12 months Andy Haste is a member of the SAL Pension Scheme SAL, a contributory George Culmer 1 May 2004 12 months defined benefit occupational pension scheme.
In common with all other Simon Lee 30 April 2003 12 months members of the Groups defined benefit occupational pension schemes, Bridget McIntyre 1 November 2005 12 months from 1 January 2006 Andy Hastes future benefits within SAL will accrue on a career average revalued earnings basis rather than on a final salary Simon Lee was appointed to the Board effective 1 January 2007.
His contractual notice period was extended to 12 months on that date, in line with other executive directors.
The Group has decided to retain a cap within its defined benefits after A Day and, accordingly, Andy Hastes benefit accrual will continue to be calculated by reference to a capped salary 112,800 for the tax year Andy Hastes service contract expires under normal circumstances in commencing 6 April 2007.
In addition to his benefits within SAL, Andy January 2024.
The service contracts for George Culmer, Bridget Haste receives an age related taxable cash allowance to enable him to McIntyre and Simon Lee terminate under normal circumstances in make his own provision for retirement above the cap.
In 2008 he will be October 2024, July 2023 and March 2023 respectively.
These service paid an allowance of 28% of base salary for this purpose.
Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 51 contracts may all be terminated earlier by the Company, or the Non-executive directors do not have service contracts but each has a individual, on 12 months notice.
The letters of appointment all request a period of one months notice should the non-executive director wish to resign.
External directorships Non-executive director Effective date of letter of appointment Where appropriate, the Group encourages directors and other senior managers to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman and the Edward Lea 10 July 2003 Group CEO, an invitation to join the Board of another company in a John Maxwell 10 July 2003 non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such wider experience.
Noel Harwerth 30 March 2004 In these circumstances, they are permitted to retain any remuneration Malcolm Le May 30 March 2004 from the non-executive appointment.
For executive directors and other members of the executive team, external appointments are limited All non-executive directors including the Chairman are subject to a to one.
At the date of this report Bridget McIntyre, Simon Lee and three year rolling period of appointment in accordance with the Mark R Chambers all held directorships in not for profit organisations.
Non-executive directors John Napiers letter of appointment was effective 9 January 2003 and the Under the Companys Articles, the remuneration paid to non-executive term of his appointment was initially three years: at the beginning of 2006 directors is determined by the Board, within limits set by shareholders.
it was extended until 31 December 2008.
The fee structure for non-executive directors was last reviewed in 2005, Historical TSR performance and is shown below: The main graph below is included in the report of the Committee as a requirement of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
Base fee 45,000 The graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the FTSE World Plus: Chairman of Group Audit Committee 20,000 Europe Non Life Insurance Index and the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE Chairman of Remuneration Committee 12,500 World Europe Non Life Insurance Index comprises the range of European Chairman of Investment Committee 12,500 insurance businesses which most closely match our competitor group, and Additional fee for sitting on more than one committee the TSR comparator group selected for 2006 and 2007 awards under the but not acting as chair of any committee 5,000 Long Term Incentive Plan.
The FTSE 100 Index comprises the 100 most highly capitalised companies, representing approximately 80% of the UK Non-executive directors are not entitled to bonus payments or market.
TSR performance relative to the indices is shown over the five pension arrangements, nor do they participate in the Groups long term years from 31 December 2002 to 31 December 2007. incentive plans.
The inset graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the same The Committee determines the Chairmans remuneration.
The fee index over the 36 month period ending 31 December 2007. payable to John Napier in respect of his appointment as Chairman of the Board is 325,000p.
a. until the end of his current term of appointment.
TSR reflects the change in value of ordinary shares in a company over The appointment may be terminated by the Chairman on three months time, as represented by the evolution of a notional initial investment of notice to the Company.
100 in the shares and including any distribution of dividends.
Total shareholder return for RSA and FTSE World Europe Non Life Insurance Index and FTSE 100 Index 250 Performance over the 36 months to 31 December 2007 200 225 200 150 175 150 100 125 50 100 31Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 04 05 06 07 0 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 31Dec 02 03 04 05 06 07 RSA FTSE World Europe FTSE 100 Index Non Life Insurance Index
