SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2007 33 Introduction This report deals with the remuneration paid to the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2007 including the Companys executive Director, Andrew Williams.
It also addresses the policy for future remuneration of the Directors.
This report has been prepared in accordance with schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 as inserted by the Directors Remuneration regulations 2002 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and a resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee The Committees members during the year were Francis Finlay Chairman, Anthony Habgood, Denis Raeburn and Gary Steinberg appointed 14 March 2007, all considered by the Board to be independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and invites selected executives and advisers to attend as appropriate.
None of the executives invited to attend during the year participated in discussions or decisions regarding their own remuneration.
Mr Finlay and Mr Habgood attended the meeting held in February 2007, Mr Finlay and Mr Raeburn attended the meeting held in May 2007 and Mr Finlay, Mr Habgood, Mr Raeburn and Mr Steinberg attended the meeting held in December 2007.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policy throughout the SVG Group and the operation of the Companys Executive Share Incentive Plans, further details of which are described below.
Its terms of reference take into account the provisions of the Combined Code on corporate governance.
The Committee has appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP and Towers Perrin, independent remuneration consultants, to advise it.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP also provides advice on the operation of the Companys share schemes.
The terms of reference of the Committee are set out on page 44.
Appointment, re-appointment and re-election of Directors All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter Directors retire by rotation at least every three years.
The Chairman meets with each Director before a Director is proposed for re-election, and, subject to the evaluation of performance carried out each year, the Board agrees whether it is appropriate for that Director to seek an additional term.
When recommending whether an individual Director should seek re-election, the Board will take into account the provisions of the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its committees.
Policy on the remuneration of non-executive Directors Remuneration paid to non-executive Directors is determined by the Board and reviewed each year.
When considering remuneration levels, the Board will consider, amongst other things, industry practice and contribution to various committees and time spent on the business of the Company.
Policy on the remuneration of executive Directors The Committees aim is to ensure that remuneration packages should attract, retain and motivate senior executives including executive Directors but should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
Basic salaries are set on this basis and the Committee has due regard to competitive market data on similar positions in other private equity organisations and financial institutions this is provided by Towers Perrin.
The Committee is sensitive to wider issues including pay and employment conditions in the Group when setting pay levels.
No executive Director of the Company is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Andrew Williams is the only executive Director of the Company.
The Committees policy is that performance-related elements of remuneration form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package.
At the 2007 AGM the Companys shareholders approved the rules of the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan the Performance Share Plan or PSP and the SVG Capital Share Incentive Plan the SIP.
The grant of options under the Companys Executive Share Option Plan 2001 the 2001 ESOP was suspended following the approval and adoption of the PSP, further details of which and awards granted under it are set out below.
The SIP is an HM Revenue & Customs approved all-employee plan: however, no awards were made under the SIP in 2007.
The Committee will review whether or not to implement and make awards under the SIP in 2008.
The basic salary of executive Directors is reviewed annually, having regard to individual performance and comparative market data.
In addition, they are eligible for a non-pensionable discretionary bonus, which is conditional on Group performance and the achievement of predetermined personal objectives based on the successful implementation of the business plan and strategies agreed by the Board.
The normal maximum annual bonus for an executive Director has been set at 300% of salary.
The bonus limit of 300% will also apply in respect of the current financial year.
Benefits in kind which are not pensionable relate to the provision of health insurance and life assurance cover.
External appointments The Company permits executive Directors of the Company to accept limited non-executive directorships and other similar appointments, it being recognised that such appointments increase their commercial knowledge and business experience to the general benefit of the Company.
Fees earned from such directorships may be retained by the executive Directors.
Andrew Williams was, throughout the year, a non-executive Director of CDC Group plc.
Directors fees of 26,000 for this appointment are retained by Mr Williams.
Service contracts The Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
Andrew Williams, the only executive Director, is employed by Schroder Investment Management Limited SIM and is seconded to the Group.
His contract with SIM provides for three months notice and does not include liquidated damages provisions.
Mr Williams contract with SIM is dated 1 March 2004.
It is the Companys policy to have regard to the duty of a departing executive Director to mitigate his loss when determining the level of any termination payment.
Overview SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 34 Remuneration report continued Performance graph The Companies Act 1985 requires this report to include a performance graph comparing the Companys total shareholder return performance against that of a broad equity market index.
For this purpose, the Committee has decided that the FTSE All-Share Index is the most appropriate available index for comparative purposes because it is the principal index in which the Companys shares are quoted.
Total shareholder return 275 250 225 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 31-Dec 31-Dec 31-Dec 31-Dec 31-Dec 31-Dec 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 SVG Capital FTSE All-Share Index Source: Datastream This graph looks at the value, by the end of 2007, of 100 invested in SVG Capital on 31 December 2002 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Total Return Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intermediate financial year ends.
Pension arrangements The following figures, prepared in accordance with UK legislation and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, apply to Andrew Williams who was a member of Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007, during which he was an executive Director of the Company.
No pension contributions are payable by Mr Williams.
Executive Directors pensions Transfer value at 31 December 2007 in respect Increase in Increase of increase Accrued Increase in accrued Accrued Transfer in transfer Transfer in accrued benefit at accrued benefit due benefit at value at value net value at benefit 31 December benefit due to other 31 December 31 December of directors 31 December excluding 2006 to inflation factors 2007 2006 contributions 2007 inflation 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 A C Williams 108 4 1 113 1,858 134 1,992 8 This forms part of the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
Transfer values are liabilities of the relevant pension fund rather than amounts due to be paid to the executive Directors or liabilities of the Company.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 35 Directors remuneration The emoluments of the Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 were as specified below: Total Total emoluments emoluments Year to Year to Salary Benefits Annual 31 December 31 December & fees in kind bonus 2007 2006 000 000 000 000 000 N E H Ferguson 200 200 180 A C Williams 321 1 850 1,172 1,008 D Buffini 33 33 25 F Finlay 43 43 36 A J Habgood 44 44 36 E W Koning 29 29 23 D Raeburn 44 44 36 C Sinclair 44 44 36 G Steinberg 35 35 Aggregate emoluments 793 1 850 1,644 1,380 This forms part of the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
Bonuses include provision for amounts accrued but not paid in each year.
Annual bonuses are awarded in respect of calendar years.
Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown on page 31.
Executive Share Incentive Plans The Performance Share Plan PSP Mr Williams, the only executive Director of the Company and selected employees of, and secondees to, the SVG Group are eligible to participate in the PSP at the discretion of the Committee.
Awards may not be made to non-executive Directors.
The PSP enables annual conditional free shares to be made or nil or nominal cost options with a value worth up to an annual limit of 200% of base salary and bonus in any financial year.
For the purposes of calculating these limits the maximum amount of bonus which may be used is capped at 300% of base salary and the value of an award shall be calculated and, if necessary, adjusted to take into account the total exercise cost if any payable by an award holder on exercise e. g. the 1 per share in respect of awards granted to A. C. Williams and any employers secondary National Insurance contributions or overseas equivalent that may have been transferred to the award holder.
The policy on granting awards under the PSP is intended to be broadly the same as under the Executive Share Option Plan, with the same limit applying to the value of shares that may be awarded in any one year.
The vesting of awards made to the executive Director during the year was based on the growth in the Companys undiluted Net Asset Value per Share NAV over four financial years, commencing with the financial year in which the award was made.
For the purposes of the PSP, NAV will include the Directors valuation of SVG Advisers Limited in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association guidelines.
Awards made to the executive Director will normally vest on the fourth anniversary of the award being granted provided that he is a director or employee within the SVG Group on that date and to the extent that the NAV performance condition has been satisfied, as follows: NAV growth over four financial years Percentage of the total number of shares subject to the NAV condition that will vest Less than 10% p. a. Nil 10% p. a.
Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis Awards made to certain senior executives below main Board level were granted subject to the satisfaction of the NAV performance conditions described above or a condition requiring the achievement of significant growth targets in the gross value of SVG Advisers Limited at the end of three financial years.
Overview SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 36 Remuneration report continued It is intended that awards made to the executive Director, and a proportion of the awards made to certain senior executives below main Board level, in 2008 will be granted subject to the same NAV targets described above.
In particular, the Committee continues to believe that, in respect of awards granted to the executive Director and certain other senior executives below main Board level, growth in NAV remains the most appropriate measure of long-term performance for a business focused on delivering superior levels of NAV growth and will, therefore, help align the interests of the executive Director and other executives of the Group with shareholder interests.
Furthermore, the Committee believes that awards of performance shares, as opposed to market value share options, are currently the best form of long-term incentive, especially given the very demanding targets set for the delivery of shares as described above.
Awards to most of the executives below main Board level will, for the time being, continue to be based on the satisfaction of the NAV performance conditions or the achievement of growth targets in the gross value of SVG Advisers Limited.
In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding up of the Company not being an internal reorganisation all awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at that time or, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee as constituted before the relevant event, would have been satisfied had the relevant performance period run its full course : and ii will normally be subject to a time pro-rata adjustment to reflect the early curtailment of the applicable performance period.
The Committee may, in its discretion, permit awards to vest early in the event of a demerger, special dividend or other similar event which would affect the market price of shares to a material extent.
In such circumstances awards will vest on the basis that would apply in the case of a takeover as described above.
The SVG Executive Share Option Plan 2001 formerly known as the SVIIT Executive Share Option Plan 2001 The PSP replaced the 2001 ESOP following the 2007 AGM.
However, whilst the Committee does not intend to make further grants under the 2001 ESOP it has been retained for use in exceptional circumstances such as for the recruitment and retention of senior staff or to reward exceptional performance.
Any grant of options under the 2001 ESOP will count towards the individual grant limits under the PSP and appropriately demanding performance targets will be set at the time of grant.
All-employee share plans As mentioned previously the SIP was approved by shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
The SIP is an all-employee share plan and will, on approval from HM Revenue & Customs, permit the Company to offer i Partnership Shares, whereby employees may buy shares using pre-tax pay max contribution of 1,500 per tax year, ii Matching Shares, whereby employees who purchase Partnership Shares may receive matching shares worth up to 3,000 per tax year, and iii Free Shares, worth up to 3,000 per tax year.
No awards were made under the SIP in 2007: however, the Committee intends to consider making awards under the SIP in the future.
Options granted to Nicholas Ferguson were made at a time when he was the executive Director of the Company.
Options are exercisable subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions see below.
Performance conditions have been met.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 37 For options granted in 2006, the target is for growth in the Companys net asset value per ordinary share to exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 4% per annum over the three years from the date of grant.
If the performance target is not satisfied on the third anniversary of the date of grant it will lapse i. e. there will be no retesting of this performance condition.
For all options granted up to the end of March 2005, performance targets have been met.
The price of an ordinary share on 1 November 2007 when Mr Williams exercised his options was 886p.
The aggregate gain before tax made by Mr Williams on the exercise of his options was 592,800 2006: n a.
All of the above options were granted for nil consideration.
All options under the 2001 ESOP were granted at the prevailing market price around the time of grant.
Awards held by Directors over ordinary shares of the Company under the PSP During the year Vesting dates At At Exercise 31 December Options Awards Awards 31 December price per share 2006 granted vested lapsed 2007 pence Earliest Latest A C Williams - 229,848 - - 229,848 100.00 15 May 2011 15 May 2017 This forms part of the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
Awards will vest and become exercisable subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions details summarised in the section headed Performance Share Plan above.
The price of an ordinary share on 15 May 2007, when awards were granted under the PSP, was 921.5p.
The mid-market price of shares at 31 December 2007 was 757.5p and the range during the year was 757.5p to 944.0p.
External advisers will confirm the performance criteria calculations for the Committee, which will be measured on a consistent basis.
Share Plan Dilution Limits It is currently intended that all awards granted under the PSP will be satisfied using new issue shares.
All options and awards granted under the 2001 ESOP and PSP to persons seconded to the Group have been structured as nominal cost options and will be satisfied using new issue shares.
In any ten calendar year period the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the PSP, the 2001 ESOP and any other employees share scheme adopted by the Company.
As at 31 December 2007, the total number of shares issued or issuable under awards and options made under the PSP and the 2001 ESOP was equal to 6.9% of the issued ordinary share capital on that date.
The Company has established an employee benefit trust to enable it to subscribe for or purchase shares in the market to satisfy awards and options made to employees under the PSP and the 2001 ESOP.
As at 31 December 2007 no shares were held in the trust.
The Board will regularly review the benefit of using the trust to make market purchases.
On behalf of the Board Francis Finlay Chairman, Remuneration Committee 2 April 2008
