Report on Directors Remuneration The Report on Directors Remuneration The Company Secretary acts as Secretary The Company does not express a specific sets out the composition and role of the to the Committee.
It is the Committees measure of planned out-performance Remuneration Committee, the Companys normal practice to invite Terry Smith since to do so is not considered realistic remuneration policies and how they as Chief Executive to attend meetings and might in some circumstances not are applied to Directors and details of or parts of meetings for discussions help create or protect value.
Performance Directors remuneration for the year on general policy matters and matters relative to sector is not a sole objective ended 31 December 2007.
The Report relating to other directors and senior since it would not necessarily reward has been prepared in accordance with executives.
He does not attend meetings shareholders.
Market conditions may Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 or parts of meetings dealing specifically result in variability in short term returns, and the Revised Combined Code, and with his own remuneration.
Keith Hamill although in adverse circumstances the will be put to shareholders for approval as Chairman does not attend parts Company will aim to achieve robust at the Annual General Meeting on of meetings dealing with his own comparative results.
In common with other businesses The Companies Act 1985 requires the The Committee is scheduled to meet at operating in the sectors in which the auditors to report to the Companys least three times a year and more often Company trades, the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors if necessary.
Four meetings were held remuneration policies are in some Remuneration Report and to state during 2007. respects distinct from the normal whether in their opinion those parts of practices of UK listed companies.
The the report have been properly prepared The Committees terms of reference are majority of the Companys competitors in accordance with the Act.
All sections available on the Companys website or, are not UK listed companies.
of this report are unaudited, except for on request, from the Company Secretary.
Details of Directors Remuneration and The Companys general remuneration Directorsshare options.
The Chairman of the Remuneration policies are: Committee attends Annual General 1.
To provide packages which are Remuneration Committee Meetings of the Company and is designed to attract, motivate and The Remuneration Committee is available to answer questions raised retain staff with the necessary skills responsible, on behalf of the Board, for by shareholders.
and experience to achieve high levels developing policy on the remuneration of profit and returns.
The application of executive directors and deciding on Professional advice of this policy takes account of general their remuneration.
The remuneration During the year the Remuneration practices in the parts of the financial of the Chairman is also determined by Committee received advice in relation services sector in which the Company the Remuneration Committee.
In addition, to incentive schemes from Allen & trades, which is characterised by high the Committee reviews remuneration Overy LLP, who were appointed by the levels of remuneration in comparison policies for senior management, is Committee for this purpose.
Allen & with many other sectors.
It is consulted by the Chief Executive on Overy LLP also provided legal advice to considered that failure to do so the specific matters relating to the the Group on other matters.
would not be in the best interests of remuneration of senior executives and, shareholders.
on behalf of the Board, approves all General remuneration policies share and long term incentive schemes The Companys remuneration policies 2.
Remuneration includes high levels of and their application.
are a key part of its approach to variable rewards that are dependent achieving its targets.
The main component The Chairman of the Remuneration objective is to achieve consistent of these variable rewards is annual Committee is Michael Fallon, who is an superior medium to long term returns bonuses which are used to motivate Independent Non-executive Director.
for shareholders compared with and retain staff and to achieve The other members are David Clark, average returns from investment in superior returns for shareholders.
Richard Kilsby and Rupert Robson, all of sterling listed equities, and to do so Salary levels are normally set to whom are Independent Non-executive with an acceptable level of risk.
Total provide a reasonable level of fixed Directors, and Keith Hamill, who is shareholder returns achieved by the remuneration, paid monthly, which Chairman of the Company and who Company and its predecessor company would be appropriate in circumstances was independent at the time of his from its flotation in September 2000 where bonuses are not paid due appointment.
All the members of the to 31 December 2007 were 206%, which to market conditions.
Salaries are Committee served throughout 2007, was 108 percentage points above reviewed annually.
These reviews except for Rupert Robson who joined the return over the same period for give rise to salary increases only if the Committee on 1 February 2007. the FTSE 250 index and 157 percentage information on comparable sector Bernard Leaver and John Spencer were points above the return for the practice indicates that salary levels members of the Committee until they FTSE 350 General Financials Index.
resigned as Directors on 7 June 2007.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 23 Report on Directors Remuneration continued 3.
Long term incentive plans are also Discretionary performance bonuses possible, discretionary and not utilised where appropriate to motivate Executive directors bonuses are contractual, with the level of annual and retain the Companys executive discretionary and no director has an bonus determined on the basis of management.
These are structured entitlement to a bonus.
judgements on performance relative to reward the achievement of medium to the relevant trading conditions term operational objectives, financial In determining the annual performance and other circumstances.
This does performance and growth in bonus the Remuneration Committee not apply to a limited number of shareholder value.
establishes a bonus pool for all directors.
staff working in certain trading This is currently determined under the 7.
The Company provides pension activities who have contractual following formula: arrangements, the costs of which are bonus arrangements depending on determined solely on the basis of performance and, in some cases, for a 1.
Ten percent of the surplus return on contributions made.
It does provide period of time, guaranteed bonuses capital employed achieved in the appropriate employees with medical in line with sector practises, year after deducting the Companys insurance but otherwise seeks to particularly those associated with weighted average cost of capital, avoid the provision of benefits in kind.
One percent of the value of the 8.
It is recognised that this approach 4.
The level of unforeseeable variability absolute total shareholder return in to performance bonuses requires in market circumstances affecting the year, after deducting an average strong management with an effective short term financial outcomes is risk free capital return to shareholders, approach to risk.
such that factors taken into account and in forming judgements on performance Application of policies to 3.
One percent of the value of the for the purpose of determining Executive Directors relative total return to shareholders bonuses are not restricted to or The Company currently has two benchmarked against the average of predominantly determined by annual Executive Directors who are Terry Smith returns achieved by the UK FTSE 250 financial budgets.
In some market Chief Executive and Paul Mainwaring index and the UK FTSE General circumstances financial outcomes Finance Director.
In addition, Lou Financials index in the year.
above annual budgets may not be Scotto served as a Director until regarded as demonstrating a high 2 February 2007, when he resigned For this purpose shareholder returns do level of performance whereas in from the Board following the demerger not include exceptional returns of others even superior performance of Collins Stewart plc to concentrate on capital as opposed to normal dividends.
might not be capable of achieving his role as Chief Executive of Tullett budgets and the failure to recognise Prebon Americas.
The above policies are The Remuneration Committee may this might result in avoidable levels applied to the Executive Directors as change this formula if it concludes of underperformance through failure follows: that doing so would be beneficial, and to motivate or retain staff.
This would record such a change in the approach is balanced by the Companys Salaries Report on Directors Remuneration.
The objective that the cost of staff should Salaries are reviewed and determined Remuneration Committee may decide be sensitive to returns to shareholders.
In to reduce the pool to be distributed if 5.
Performance bonuses are not accordance with the Companys policies it concludes that it is excessive relative formally capped since within the salaries are not routinely increased to performance achieved against plan, sector in which the Company annually.
In determining salaries the performance in market circumstances, operates the probable outcome of Remuneration Committee takes into performance against previous results such a policy could be to reduce account salary levels for equivalent and achievement of the Companys returns to shareholders once targets positions in comparable sector objectives.
It will also take into account have been achieved.
The policy of businesses, most of which are not UK the number of executive directors minimising fixed remuneration as a listed companies.
Given the policy of covered by the pool.
In exceptional proportion of overall remuneration maintaining high variable remuneration circumstances it may also increase the means that the Company does not the level of salaries would normally size of the pool if it concludes that it apply percentages or multiples of be below the average of that paid by would clearly be unfair not to do so.
salary to the determination of bonuses.
businesses of comparable size for equivalent positions.
24 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 The pool is then allocated between Directors service contracts Tullett Prebon Long Term Incentive Plan executive directors taking into Directors notice periods are limited to Shareholder approval was granted in consideration their personal contribution, 12 months and are subject to November 2006 for a new discretionary comparable levels of remuneration in mitigation and restrictive covenants.
long term incentive plan, the Tullett competitive or comparable businesses Termination payments under any Prebon Long Term Incentive Plan.
The in the sectors in which the Company directors service contract will not exceed first awards under this plan will be trades and considerations relating to 100% of base salary plus annual bonus.
made in 2008. retention and motivation.
It is the policy The contracts provide for retirement at of the Remuneration Committee not the age of 65 in all cases.
The principal aim of the Tullett Prebon to pay bonuses to a director if it is not Long Term Incentive Plan is to improve satisfied with personal performance.
Collins Stewart plc operating performance.
The primary If following this process not all of the At the time of the demerger of Collins objective is growth in revenues, subject bonus pool has been allocated, the Stewart plc it was decided that it would to minimum levels of margins and unallocated proportion is retained by be in the best interests of the then return on capital employed.
shareholders if Terry Smith undertook to be made in 2008, maximum vesting the role of Chairman of that company.
of awards will be achieved if revenues It is recognised that the bonuses arising It was agreed that he would receive grow by 10% per annum for the three from this policy may be large.
However, remuneration in respect of that years to 31 December 2010, subject to it is considered to be in the best position from Collins Stewart plc.
also achieving in 2010 operating margins interests of the Company and the of 17.5% and a return on capital shareholders to pay remuneration in Long term and share incentives employed of not less than 25% on line with market practice in the sectors Equity incentivisation of staff continues operating assets and goodwill on future in which the Company operates.
to be an important part of the acquisitions.
Minimum vesting of awards Companys remuneration strategy.
The will be achieved if annual revenue Long term and share incentive schemes main incentive scheme in force in 2007 growth of 5% per annum is achieved for The participation of executive directors was the Tullett Liberty Equity Incentive the three years to 31 December 2010. in long term and share incentive schemes Plan.
The majority of the share options is determined by the Remuneration under the Tullett Liberty Equity Awards under the plan are granted by Committee.
Details of the Companys Incentive Plan have now been exercised.
Scheme long term and share incentive schemes In 2008, awards will be made under a participants will be required to use one are set out below.
To date Terry Smith new scheme, the Tullett Prebon Long half of their annual bonuses in respect has not participated in the long term Term Incentive Plan.
of 2008 and 2009 to purchase shares or share incentive schemes, except for in the Company as a precondition the Sharesave scheme.
This approach Tullett Liberty Equity Incentive Plan of receiving the awards and to hold has been reviewed by the Remuneration The Tullett Liberty Equity Incentive those shares throughout the plans Committee which has concluded that Plan was introduced in 2004, with the performance period.
Awards are in the he and Paul Mainwaring will, when principal aim of improving the Companys form of nil priced options.
appropriate, participate in future operating margin.
Full vesting of incentive schemes.
options occurred when an operating The lowest share price of Tullett Prebon margin of 18% was achieved in any plc ordinary shares during the year Pensions and other benefits financial year during the three year to 31 December 2007 adjusted for Terry Smith does not participate in the performance period of the plan.
Vesting the effect of the return of capital to Companys pension scheme.
Since May of options was also subject to the shareholders in March 2007 was 360p 2007, Tullett Prebon Group Limited has Company achieving revenue of 650m and the highest price was 527.5p.
At made a contribution of 6% of basic pay, during the year in question, although 31 December 2007 it was 469.25p.
up to the notional earnings cap, to the this was reduced to 625m to reflect Tullett Prebon Group Personal Pension the transfer of part of the US equities Plan in respect of Paul Mainwaring.
business to Collins Stewart in 2006.
Executive directors also participate in the Companys medical benefits scheme.
The operating margin target and the turnover target were both met in 2006 and all options under the Tullett Liberty Equity Incentive Plan have vested.
Options over 533,909 shares remain exercisable under this plan.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 25 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Directors share options The outstanding share options granted to each person who served as a director of the Company at any time in the financial year are as follows: Shares Shares under under option option Lapsed Exercise Name Type at 1 at 31 Granted Exercised unexercised price Date from Date of of of January December during during during per which first expiry of director option 2007 2007 period period period share exercisable option i ii Lou Scotto Tullett Liberty 64,704 Nil 64,704 Nil 8.1.
14 Equity Incentive Plan i ii Lou Scotto Tullett Liberty 13,703 Nil 13,703 Nil 8.1.
14 Equity Incentive Plan i iii Lou Scotto Tullett Liberty 496,623 653,695 1 in 1.1.
08 12.10.14 iv Equity Incentive Plan total 1.1.
09 i Resigned from the Board of the Company on 2 February 2007. ii Market price on date of exercise was 618p.
iii Following the Companys return of capital to shareholders on 15 March 2007, share options were recalibrated to reflect the change in share price.
Options were increased by a multiplier of 1.31628.
Lou Scottos 496,623 options became 653,695 options on 15 March 2007. iv Lou Scottos contract of employment was varied on 1 February 2007 such that half of his outstanding share options became exercisable from 1 January 2008 and half from 1 January 2009.
Following the recalibration of options referred to above, 326,848 options were exercisable in 2008 and 326,847 in 2009.
Non-executive Directors fees The fees paid to the Non-executive Directors are determined by the Board and the fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
These are benchmarked against published information on the fees paid to the non-executive directors of UK listed companies of comparable size and activities.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director are paid additional fees to reflect their increased time commitment and responsibilities, but are not eligible to participate in short or long term incentive plans or to receive any pension from the Company.
As this was based upon the performance of the former Collins Stewart Tullett plc, Collins Stewart plc contributed 1m and Tullett Prebon plc 2.85m.
ii Lou Scotto resigned as a Director on 2 February 2007. iii The above table does not include pension contributions in respect of Paul Mainwaring of 4,224 2006: nil.
These contributions were made to the Tullett Prebon Group Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme.
iv Terry Smith and Paul Mainwaring received private medical cover at a cost of 1,502 and 1,473 respectively.
v Stephen Jack resigned from Collins Stewart Tullett plcs board on 13 November 2006.
The above table does not include pension contributions in respect of Stephen Jack of 6,600. vi Rupert Robson was appointed a Director on 4 January 2007. vii As part of the restructuring of the Board following the demerger of Collins Stewart, Bernard Leaver and John Spencer resigned as Directors on 7 June 2007, and received payments in lieu of notice of 40,000 and 45,000 respectively.
As Chairman of Collins Stewart plc Terry Smith also receives a salary of 200,000 per annum and is entitled to a bonus for the year ended 31 December 2007 from that company.
26 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 Determination of Executive Directors Bonuses The total Executive Directors bonuses for the year are materially less than the amounts arising under the formula establishing the potential bonus pool.
The size of the pool reflected the return on average capital employed for the year of 37%, but did not include any amounts relating to absolute or relative total shareholder returns.
In considering the level of bonuses the Remuneration Committee took account of the achievement of agreed objectives relating to revenue growth, recruitment and management restructuring.
Directors Contracts Details of Directors contracts are set out below: Director Date of contract Notice period Terry Smith 29 January 2007 12 months Paul Mainwaring 25 September 2006 12 months Keith Hamill 22 September 2000 12 months David Clark 10 March 2003 12 months Michael Fallon 24 August 2004 12 months Richard Kilsby 3 June 2005 12 months Rupert Robson 4 January 2007 12 months Total shareholder returns A graph depicting the Groups total shareholder return in comparison to other companies in the FTSE Mid 250 index and the FTSE General Financials index in the five years to 31 December 2007 is shown below.
Collins Stewart Tullett Total Shareholder Return 350 Tullet Prebon Total Shareholder Return FTSE Mid 250 FTSE 350 General Financial 300 250 200 150 100 50 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 The Board believes that the above indices are most relevant as they comprise either businesses of similar size or engaged in the financial services industry.
On behalf of the Board Michael Fallon Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 11 March 2008 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 27
