REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT 98 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT At the request of the Remuneration Committee, the Board.
Our objective is to ensure that the Chief Executive Officer and certain senior our compensation policies and practices managers were invited to attend meetings support the generation of growth, and of the Remuneration Committee throughout facilitate thereby the generation of value the year.
Accordingly, the following attended for shareholders.
Meeting those objectives meetings of the Remuneration Committee in dominated our agenda during 2007.
2007, except where their own remuneration This included creating the appropriate was being discussed: David Brennan Chief compensation structures for the new Executive Officer : Tony Bloxham formerly MedImmune business.
Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and, following his retirement, Lynn Tetrault Our role in the Remuneration Committee JOHN VARLEY Executive Vice-President, Human Resources is to provide governance and strategic Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Corporate Affairs : Peter Brown formerly oversight of remuneration on behalf of Vice-President, Global Compensation and Benefits and, following his retirement, Simon Appleby Vice President, Performance and Reward : and prior to his becoming a CONTENTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Remuneration Committee member and MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS when the business of the meeting was better Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee served by his attendance Louis Schweitzer.
membership and meetings 98 are John Varley who became the Chairman These individuals provided advice and services Remuneration Committee remit of the Committee on 26 April 2007, that materially assisted the Remuneration and key activities during the year 98 John Buchanan, Louis Schweitzer since Committee during the year.
In so doing, AstraZenecas overall remuneration 12 September 2007 and Nancy Rothwell Mr Brown and following his retirement, policy and purpose 99 since 26 April 2007.
They are all NonMr Appleby drew on various sources of Components of remuneration 100 Executive Directors.
The Board considers data concerning directors and executives them all to be independent with the exception salaries, bonus levels and other incentives Executive Directors and Senior of Louis Schweitzer who was considered including general pharmaceutical industry Executive Teams remuneration independent upon his appointment as reports and surveys, as well as surveys and terms of employment 100 Chairman of the Board.
The independence specifically carried out for the Company, Audit 105 of the Non-Executive Directors is discussed such as those prepared by Towers Perrin.
Directors emoluments in 2007 106 in more detail in the Directors Report on page Pensions 108 43.
During 2007, three members resigned During 2007, Carol Arrowsmith of Deloitte & from the Remuneration Committee because Touche LLP Deloitte was appointed by Transactions with Directors 108 they retired or resigned from the Board, the Remuneration Committee to provide it Total shareholder return graphs 109 namely Peter Bonfield following his retirement with independent advice on all matters being Directors interest in shares 110 from the Board on 26 April 2007, Erna Mller considered by it.
Deloitte also provided Share options 113 following her retirement from the Board on taxation advice and other non-audit services 26 April 2007 and Joe Jimenez following to the Company.
Gains by Directors on his resignation from the Board on 12 April exercise of share options 114 2007.
The Company Secretary acts as the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REMIT secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
AND KEY ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR This Directors Remuneration Report has been Remit prepared in accordance with the Directors The Remuneration Committee met six times During 2007, the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 in 2007.
Each meeting was attended by all of undertook a review of its own remit.
This led the Regulations and meets the relevant its members, except that other commitments to a proposal to adopt a revised remit, building requirements of the Financial Services prevented John Varley prior to his appointment on the model remit prepared by the Institute Authoritys FSA Listing Rules.
As required by as Chairman of the Committee and John of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators the Regulations, a resolution to approve the Buchanan from each attending one meeting.
ICSA, which was subsequently approved report will be proposed at the Annual General Nancy Rothwell and Louis Schweitzer by the Board.
This revised remit reflects Meeting AGM on Thursday 24 April 2008. joined the Committee on 26 April 2007 and AstraZenecas commitment to operate in 12 September 2007 respectively and have a way which is consistent with the highest The following sections of the Directors attended all meetings from these dates, standards of corporate governance.
Remuneration Report up to and including except that both Nancy Rothwell and Louis the section titled Non-Executive Directors Schweitzer were unable to attend the meeting The revised Remuneration Committee remit page 105 were not subject to audit by on 3 December 2007 as this was set up with covers, amongst other things: KPMG Audit Plc.
short notice as it was an urgent meeting.
The requirement that the Remuneration Committee takes into account all factors which it deems necessary in order to achieve a competitive and fair remuneration structure which operates in the interests REMUNERATION REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 99 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED of shareholders and to the benefit of Key activities during the year is linked to a range of measures designed to the financial and commercial health of The Remuneration Committee considered promote both individual and team behaviour the Company.
the following matters, amongst other things, and performance that genuinely contributes during 2007: to the success of AstraZeneca and which The constitution of the Remuneration ultimately creates value for shareholders.
Committee, including membership criteria The terms of senior executive packages Such measures are designed to be stretching and the process for the appointment of on appointment and termination.
independent Non-Executive Directors to the Remuneration Committee.
The remuneration principles relating to the Consistent with its approach during the year, newly enlarged biologics business operating the Board has confirmed that the Companys The operation of the Remuneration under the MedImmune name, in order to overall remuneration policy and purpose going Committee, by ensuring compliance to the ensure that the dynamic and entrepreneurial forward will continue to be to: fullest extent appropriate and practicable ethos of a biotechnology company is with the best practice principles contained maintained, whilst ensuring that there Attract and retain people of the quality within the UK Combined Code on is proper alignment with the strategic necessary to sustain the Company as Corporate Governance annexed to the objectives of the Group as a whole to one of the best pharmaceutical companies FSAs Listing Rules.
The remuneration policy of the Group.
This As described above, a review of its own Motivate these people in order to achieve includes the Remuneration Committees remit and the development of a revised the level of performance necessary to create responsibility, after appropriate consultation remit which has been adopted by the Board.
sustained growth in shareholder value.
with the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, to make recommendations to the ASTRAZENECAS OVERALL REMUNERATION In order to achieve this, the remuneration Board in respect of the Companys policy POLICY AND PURPOSE policy and practice are designed to: for Executive Director and senior executive The Board is committed to maintaining a remuneration: to make decisions, on an dynamic performance culture, in which the Closely align individual and team reward individual basis, regarding each element Group can compete strongly by employing with business performance at each level.
of remuneration, including the terms and developing the best talent and where and conditions of employment and the every employee is clear about the Companys Encourage employees to perform to their retirement severance provisions for objectives, how their work will impact on fullest capacity.
the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, those objectives and how they will benefit the Chief Executive Officer, the Executive from achieving high levels of performance.
Encourage employees to align their Directors, the Company Secretary and interests with those of shareholders.
those within the wider senior executive To underpin these objectives, in addition to population that fall within the Remuneration fixed remuneration basic pay, pension and Support managers responsibility to Committees remit.
certain other benefits benchmarked against achieve improvements in business appropriate external comparators, the majority performance through people and to In formulating its proposals, the of employees are eligible to receive an annual recognise superior performance, in the Remuneration Committee seeks to cash incentive, with a component based on short and longer term.
provide key executives every corporate financial performance in the form encouragement to enhance the of earnings per share EPS and or individual Be internally consistent, as far as practicable Companys performance and to ensure performance.
Whilst details of bonus plans and beneficial, but taking due account of that individuals are fairly, but responsibly, differ from country to country, the EPS local market needs and permitting flexibility rewarded for their contribution to the component ensures that all eligible employees where this is beneficial.
receive an element of reward based on the Companys overall financial performance.
Be competitive and cost-effective in each The duties of the Remuneration Committee, In addition, long-term incentive awards are of the relevant employment markets.
including a description of the routine or provided to selected employees in order annual matters that fall to the Remuneration to align their interests closely with those of The cost and value of the components of Committee to consider.
the remuneration package are considered as a whole and are designed to: The responsibility of the members of the These pay-for-performance principles apply Remuneration Committee to report to throughout the Group, and provide a consistent Ensure a proper balance of fixed pay and shareholders annually, and to be available framework within which executive remuneration variable performance-related pay linked at the AGM to address questions arising.
The Remuneration to shortand long-term objectives.
Committee seeks to ensure that the overall The duty of the Remuneration Committee proportion of variable pay bonuses and Reflect market competitiveness.
to review its own performance, constitution share-based awards to which Directors and and remit at least once a year in order to members of the Senior Executive Team SET During 2008, the Remuneration Committee ensure that it is operating effectively.
may become entitled makes up a significant intends to review the current remuneration proportion of their overall remuneration policy for members of the SET with a view to A copy of the Remuneration Committees package.
The Remuneration Committees benchmarking reward against the companies remit is available on the Companys website, objective is to ensure that such variable pay and markets with which AstraZeneca should astrazeneca.
REMUNERATION REPORT 100 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION FIXED AND VARIABLE FIXED ELEMENTS VARIABLE ELEMENTS Fixed Linked to Linked to elements short-term long-term performance performance Base Pension Benefits Bonus Deferred Share Performance salary such as Bonus Plan Option Share healthcare share based Plan Plan appropriately reference competitive levels of Short-term bonus a lump-sum payment EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND SENIOR reward.
This is partly the consequence of the related to the targeted achievement of EXECUTIVE TEAMS REMUNERATION changing composition of the senior leadership corporate, functional and individual goals, AND TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT group, which has become increasingly measured over a year and contained Illustration of fixed and international and partly because we have within a specific plan.
The corporate goals variable remuneration added significant capability in our pursuit of are derived from the annual financial targets Based on our remuneration policy, the charts growth the best example being the biologics set by the Board and take into account at the top of page 101 illustrate the potential businesses which we have acquired over external expectations of performance.
weighting given to fixed and variable the last two years.
In seeking to attract, The functional goals are agreed by the elements of the remuneration package at develop and retain the best human capital Remuneration Committee at the start of, Executive Director level.
Performance-related in the industry, we must remain very attentive and are monitored throughout, the year.
elements of the package are shown on an to the wider industry practice and the impact Bonuses are not pensionable.
Individual Expected Value basis, and in the event that of the international pay environment.
goals are based on annual objectives performance conditions are not met, such which are linked to functional goals.
elements would not deliver any value.
The We expect to report to our shareholders Expected Value approach considers the the key findings, and any changes to the Long-term incentive plans for selected range of possible outcomes and the remuneration policy as a consequence of groups, targeted at the achievement of probability attached to each, in order to this review, in next years Annual Report and strategic objectives closely aligned with provide a value that represents the average Form 20-F Information.
the interests of shareholders, namely that would be delivered if the arrangements the AstraZeneca Performance Share were operated over many years.
The COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION Plan PSP described on pages 103 to Expected Value for bonus payment is taken During 2007, the components of employee 104, the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan to be the target payout level.
remuneration including that of the Executive described on pages 104 to 105 and in line Directors and SET members comprised of with market practice.
Some individuals Fixed remuneration fixed and variable ie performance-related primarily those based in the US, but Basic salary elements, as illustrated below.
excluding Executive Directors, participate The basic salary for each Executive Director in the Restricted Stock Unit Plan s and SET member is determined by the Throughout 2007, as in 2006, the principal described on page 105.
The Companys components of the total remuneration policy is currently to set Executive Directors package comprised: Share participation various plans provide base salary levels by reference to practice the opportunity for employees to take across the UK FTSE 30.
Other SET members Annual salary based on conditions in a personal stake in the Companys are benchmarked against comparable jobs the relevant geographic market and the wealth creation as shareholders.
These in the countries in which they normally value of an individuals sustained personal plans are described in Note 26 to the work primarily referenced against industry performance to the business, resulting Financial Statements.
comparators or companies with levels of from their ability and experience.
global operation and complexity similar to The way in which these elements of those of AstraZeneca.
Pension arrangements appropriate to remuneration were combined and applied the relevant national market.
varies according to a range of factors including Salary decisions reflect the experience and specific business needs and practices in sustained performance of the individuals to Benefits such as healthcare costdifferent geographic markets, although, in whom they apply, taking account of market effective and compatible with relevant general, the more senior the role within the competitiveness and the level of increases welfare arrangements.
business, the greater the proportion of total applicable to employees in the wider Group.
remuneration was made up from variable pay.
For the Executive Directors and other members of the SET, the policy has been to position salaries at or slightly above the median of the relevant market.
REMUNERATION REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 101 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SALARIES 2008 and hereafter, on leaving or retiring from the Group, will be eligible to take a pension based Annual salary Annual salary in 2007 in 2008 on accrued service and final pensionable pay.
Executive Director % Increase David Brennan 940,000 972,900 3.5 On death in retirement, the accrued pension is guaranteed payable for the first five years John Patterson 504,692 540,000 7.0 of retirement and then reduces to two-thirds 1 Simon Lowth 550,000 550,000 0.0 of this amount should there be a surviving 1 spouse or other dependant.
Any member Simon Lowth was paid 91,700 during 2007 as he was only appointed as a Director from 5 November 2007. may choose higher or lower levels of COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION EXPECTED VALUE BASIS survivors pensions at retirement, subject to HM Revenue & Customs limits, in return CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR for an adjustment to their own pension of FIXED FIXED equivalent actuarial value.
Pensions are also 23% SALARY 30% SALARY payable to dependent children.
VARIABLE VARIABLE 20% BONUS 22% BONUS Pensions in payment are increased annually 36% PSP 30% PSP 21% OPTIONS 18% OPTIONS in line with inflation, as measured by the UK Retail Prices Index, up to a maximum of 5%.
Simon Lowth the Chief Financial Officer is eligible to join the Groups main defined All Executive Directors terms and conditions David Brennans participation in the pension contribution plan at a Group contribution rate are UK-based, apart from David Brennans plan is subject to a service cap at 35 years of 24% of annual basic salary, or alternatively, pension including health insurance service, which will be attained in January to take the Group contribution as a cash arrangements, which are described below.
2011, after which no further service accrual allowance.
For the option year 2007 2008, can be earned.
he has elected to take the cash allowance For 2008, the Executive Directors revised as detailed beneath the pensions table on annual salaries are shown in the table at the Members and, in the event of death, page 108. top of this page.
surviving spouses dependants can elect to take pensions in lump-sum form based Jonathan Symonds the former Chief Pension arrangements on actuarial valuation.
Financial Officer benefited from a pension The table on page 108 gives details of the promise equivalent to membership of the changes in the value of the Executive In addition, David Brennan is a contributing UK Defined Benefit Pension Plan.
This was 2 Directors accrued pensions during 2007. member of the US 401 k savings plan, delivered in 2007 through a combination of as applies to all US employees.
For 2008, an annual payment by the Company of 26% US Executive Directors David Brennan, along with all eligible US of base salary paid into a personal pension, pension arrangements employees, will receive an up-lift to the and an unfunded top-up benefit to deliver the David Brennan is a member of the AstraZeneca contributions paid into the 401 k and balance.
The aggregate benefits are shown US Defined Benefit Pension Plan, by virtue of associated non-qualified saving plans.
in the table on page 108 as if the scheme his membership of pension plans applicable were a defined benefit arrangement.
to legacy Astra Merck employees.
Benefits for UK Executive Directors members of this plan are delivered on a taxpension arrangements Following Jonathan Symonds resignation qualified basis, with accrued benefits that UK Executive Directors have the option to in July 2007, his pension arrangements were exceed specific limits under the plans formula participate in the UK Pension Fund according terminated in accordance with pre-existing and the US Tax Code being delivered through to their eligibility, or to take a cash allowance rights under the governing documentation.
The cash allowance is Accordingly, the Company exercised its power normal pension age under both plans is 65. consistent with the appropriate cost of the to wind up the pension arrangement and pay alternative gross pension benefit.
out the accrued capital value of the unfunded In September 2008, David Brennan will satisfy top-up benefit.
In so doing, the Committee a condition in the plan relating to combined John Patterson Executive Director, took external independent actuarial advice age and service exceeding 85 years, which is Development has elected to remain as to what would be a reasonable valuation, a condition that applies to all members within a member of the AstraZeneca Groups resulting in a cash lump sum payment of the plan.
Thereafter, on leaving or retiring from main UK Defined Benefit Pension Plan for 3.27 million being made.
employment, he would be eligible to take the option year 2007 2008 rather than take a pension or lump sum equivalent based on the cash allowance.
The normal pension age The payment extinguishes all pension accrued service and final pensionable pay under this plan is 62.
However, a members liabilities the Company has in respect of ie, without actuarial reduction.
This change accrued pension is available from age 60 Jonathan Symonds.
in status under the plan will trigger an increase without any actuarial reduction.
In addition, in transfer value during 2008. the accrued pension is available, unreduced, 2 from age 57 if the Group consents to a request The 401 k savings plan is a quali ed plan to which eligible employees may make salary-deferral for early retirement and from age 50 if the contributions on a post-tax and or pre-tax basis.
retirement is at the Groups request.
John Employers may also make matching or non-elective Patterson reached age 60 in January 2008 contributions to the plan.
REMUNERATION REPORT 102 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In the event of a senior employee in the main individual in his or her role.
Further discussion 50% by reference to EPS.
UK Defined Benefit Pension Plan becoming of the weighting of each of these factors incapacitated, then a pension is payable is set out under the heading Structure and 25% by measures relating to the individuals immediately as if such person had reached Assessment of Performance below.
particular area of responsibility or, in the normal retirement age subject to a maximum case of the Chief Executive Officer, the of 10 years additional service, based on In respect of the assessment of bonuses average of these individual outcomes for current pensionable salary.
In the event for 2007, EPS excluding restructuring and the other members of the SET.
of a members death prior to retirement, synergy costs increased by 7%: global sales dependants are entitled to a pension of increased by 7% overall: and operating profit 25% by a balance of qualitative and two-thirds of the pension that would have excluding restructuring and synergy costs quantitative measures that address been earned had the deceased remained in increased by 8%.
The development pipeline overall business performance.
service to age 62, plus a capital sum of four was strengthened and now comprises 95 times pensionable pay.
The size of the phase III Consistent with best practice, the Remuneration portfolio doubled from five to 10 projects Committee has put in place a requirement In the event of a senior employee in the covering nine new compounds.
It was a that a certain proportion of any short-term main UK Defined Contribution Pension Plan record year in terms of the number of new bonus payment should be deferred and or where an alternative cash allowance has molecules entering phase I compared with invested into Ordinary Shares or ADSs in been taken becoming incapacitated, then 2006 24 in 2007, 12 in 2006.
During 2007, the Company acquired on the open market Permanent Health Insurance provides there were significant externalisation at the prevailing market price and held on continuation of a proportion of salary subject developments, including the acquisition of behalf of the individual Executive Director by to satisfying medical criteria.
In the event of MedImmune, Inc. which is described in detail the Company for a period of three years from death prior to retirement, dependants are on page 25.
Good progress was made in the date of acquisition.
This arrangement is entitled to a pension and or lump sum product development life cycle management.
intended as one of the ways in which, over secured from a multiple of ten times salary.
These achievements were underpinned by time, Executive Directors will be able to build a continuing emphasis on cost discipline, up a significant shareholding in the business.
Benefits improved productivity and performance Although the delivery of these shares to the In conjunction with the majority of employers, management.
During 2007, the Business individual after three years is not contingent certain benefits are made available to the Performance Management framework was on the continued performance of the business, Executive Directors and members of the reviewed, with a view to further enhancing the Remuneration Committee has reserved the SET via a flexible benefits programme offered focus on AstraZenecas strategic objectives.
right to retrospectively alter bonus outcomes by AstraZeneca.
Under this programme, Bonus outcomes for 2007 reflected overall in circumstances where it does not consider participants may elect to purchase certain corporate and relevant functional performance that the delivery of shares is warranted by benefits such as funding to facilitate the in 2007 against clear objectives in relation the underlying performance of the business.
purchase of a company car and additional to the following categories: The proportion currently deferred into shares insurance from a fund calculated by reference is one third of the pre-tax bonus for Executive to basic salary.
Directors and one sixth for all other SET Patients.
On leaving, participants would Variable remuneration Products.
normally have to wait for the shares to be Executive Directors and members of the People.
released at the end of the three year period.
SET are eligible to participate in a number of For 2007, the short-term bonuses awarded different elements of variable pay, which are Bonus outcomes for 2008 will reflect overall to the Executive Directors are set out on described below.
The decision as to whether corporate financial and relevant functional page 103. or not in any given year the Executive Directors performance against clear objectives in and members of the SET receive any or all of relation to the following categories which are Bonus outcomes for 2007 their elements of variable pay is determined consistent with delivering shareholder value: The bonus outcomes for 2007 are shown in by the Remuneration Committee, who will the table at the top of page 103.
Bonuses are typically have regard to the performance of Strengthening the pipeline.
the individual and will consider the elements Growing the business.
of variable pay applicable to senior employees Reshaping the business.
For 2008, the bonus ranges for each Executive in other comparable organisations in making Promoting a culture of responsibility Director are shown on page 103 and are the such a determination.
Short-term bonus More information about these objectives is Long-term incentive plans Performance criteria set out in the section Goals, Strategy and Executive Directors and members of the SET All Executive Directors and members of the Performance Measurement on pages 9 to 12. may also be granted share options under SET are eligible for a short-term bonus.
the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan and The basis for the payment of any short-term Structure and assessment of performance awards under the AstraZeneca Performance bonus is determined by reference to a range Since consultation with shareholders in 2004, Share Plan.
The grant of such options and of factors linked to the underlying performance the performance criteria for determining the award of such shares are determined by of AstraZenecas business, the performance annual bonus for Executive Directors and the Remuneration Committee, as are the of the functional area for which the individual other SET members have been as follows: performance targets that apply to their vesting is responsible and the performance of the and or exercise.
Both of these schemes are REMUNERATION REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 103 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BONUS OUTCOMES FOR 2007 Performance targets For all Awards so far, the performance target Short-term bonus delivered as a combination of cash and shares, Percentage is the Companys total shareholder return TSR as shown in the table of emoluments of salary over the relevant three-year period compared Executive Director % with the TSR of a selected peer group of David Brennan 1,008,150 107.3 pharmaceutical companies for the same John Patterson 468,425 92.8 period.
These companies are currently a total 1 of 12: Abbott Laboratories, Bristol-Myers Simon Lowth 80,381 87.7 Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & BONUS RANGES FOR 2008 Johnson, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, Schering-Plough and Wyeth.
Bonus range for 2008 Executive Director % TSR looks at share price increase and David Brennan 0 180 dividends re-invested in respect of a notional Simon Lowth 0 150 number of shares, from the beginning of the John Patterson 0 150 relevant performance period to the end of 1 Part year only as appointed Director on 5 November 2007. it, and ranks the companies in the selected comparator group by reference to their TSR achieved over that period.
The rank which intended to align the interests of Executive Generally, Awards can be granted at any the Companys TSR achieves over the Directors and members of the SET with those time although in practice they are awarded performance period will determine how of shareholders.
Following the exercise of an annually, but not during a close period of the many Shares will vest under the relevant option under the AstraZeneca Share Option Company.
In 2007, the main grant of Awards Award, as per the vesting schedule shown Plan it is the expectation of the Remuneration was made on 30 March, with other awards in the table below: Committee that the Executive Directors will approved by the Remuneration Committee TSR ranking Vesting percentage of retain the net number of shares from the in relation to, for example new appointments of the Company Shares under Award % exercise for a period of not less than six or promotions granted on 24 August and Below median 0 months from the date of exercise.
The value of the shares subject to the Award is determined by reference to Median 30 Shareholding guidelines the market price of Shares over the threeUpper quartile 100 For the Executive Directors and members of day period immediately preceding the date Between median and upper quartile Pro rata the SET, the Remuneration Committee has of grant.
Significantly above upper quartile up to 125 established target shareholding guidelines in which it is expected that Executive Directors Details of Awards to Executive Directors are build up their own holding of shares in the shown in the table on page 111.
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return Company, equivalent to one times their basic index is averaged in the TSR calculations salary.
It is expected that these shareholding Performance conditions for each company over the three months targets will be reached in part through shares Save in exceptional circumstances, which prior to the start and end of the relevant delivered from the various long-term incentive are prescribed in the PSP rules, the vesting performance period.
arrangements as well as the deferred part of of Awards is contingent on the satisfaction of the short-term bonus described above.
specified performance targets and continued In addition to the TSR performance target employment with the Group.
In addition to being met for each Award as set out above, AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan the satisfaction of these performance targets, the Remuneration Committee also has to The AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan Awards will generally not vest until the third satisfy itself that achievement of the TSR PSP was approved by shareholders at the anniversary of the date of grant although performance target is a genuine reflection AGM in 2005 and provides for the grant of Awards may vest in part on a time pro-rated of the Companys underlying financial performance share awards Awards over basis where a participant ceases to be performance and has the discretion to not Ordinary Shares or American Depositary Shares in relevant employment under certain allow Awards to vest or to only allow them in AstraZeneca PLC together, the Shares.
circumstances during the vesting period to partially vest where this appears to the to the extent that the performance targets Remuneration Committee to be warranted.
Basis of participation have been met.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible The Remuneration Committee has the for setting the policy for the way in which the Performance period and vesting dates discretion to award Shares up to a further PSP should be operated, including agreeing In the case of all Awards granted so far, the 25% over and above the Shares subject to performance targets, identifying which performance target relates to the three-year the Award, if the Companys TSR performance employees should be invited to participate in period commencing on 1 January of the year is substantially better than that of the upper the PSP and the level of Awards.
Thus, for the Awards made in 2007, quartile of the comparator group.
is highly selective and tends to only include the performance period runs from 1 January senior employees on the basis of their 2007 to 31 December 2009.
Awards are not pensionable and is the third anniversary of the date of grant.
may not generally be assigned or transferred.
REMUNERATION REPORT 104 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Individual limit performance targets and identifying which to the new science of biopharmaceuticals, In respect of any financial year, the maximum employees should be invited to participate in 2006 AstraZeneca acquired Cambridge market value of Shares that may be put under and the level of Awards.
Participation is highly Antibody Technology Group.
Award in respect of an employee is 500% of selective and tends to only include senior that employees basic salary.
This limit excludes employees on the basis of their performance As well as taking into account these the above 25% maximum additional Shares except in the US where for cultural reasons, performance considerations at the point that may vest, at the sole discretion of the participation in the SOP is more widespread.
of granting Awards, the Remuneration Remuneration Committee, if the Companys Awards are not pensionable and may not Committee imposed performance conditions TSR performance is substantially above that generally be assigned or transferred.
in respect of the exercise of such Awards of the upper quartile of the comparator group.
in respect of members of the SET including For Awards to vest at this level, the Company Generally, Awards can be granted at any time, the Executive Directors which, in the view of would need to have sustained a level of but not during a close period of the Company.
the Remuneration Committee were considered performance well in excess of upper quartile In 2007, grants of Awards were made on appropriately stretching.
In order for Awards over a period of years and the Remuneration 30 March, 24 August and 16 November.
to vest, the EPS of the Group must increase Committee would need to be satisfied that The exercise price is fixed by reference to the at least in line with the UK Retail Price Index this was warranted.
market price of Shares over the three day plus 5% per annum on average, over a three period immediately preceding the date of grant.
year period, the base figure being the EPS for The actual individual limits that apply under the the financial year preceding the date of grant, PSP, subject to this maximum, are set by the Details of Awards to Executive Directors are with no re-testing.
In addition, since the Remuneration Committee from time to time.
shown in the table on page 113. review of executive remuneration in 2004, the Remuneration Committee has included Performance under the AstraZeneca Performance conditions a condition to the effect that, if an event occurs Performance Share Plan in 2007 The Remuneration Committee must, before which causes material reputational damage The Peer Group Graphs on page 109 show, agreeing to grant an Award to Executive to the Company, such that it is not appropriate for each Award, how the Companys TSR Directors and others, be satisfied that both the for the Awards to vest and become performance has compared with the TSR most recent and the underlying performance exercisable, the Remuneration Committee for the companies in the comparator group of the business justify each grant and that can make a determination to that effect.
from the first day of the relevant performance each individual to whom an Award is period to 31 December 2007 and how the proposed to be granted has achieved a level The Remuneration Committee also sought Company ranks against those other peer of performance in his or her role considered and received assurances that each individual companies on this basis.
We will continue by the Remuneration Committee as being proposed for the grant of an Award has been to report on the performance of each Award able to justify in the interests of the business, performing in a manner that justified a grant against the relevant performance target during the grant of such an Award.
There was some variation in the level the relevant vesting period.
of grants being proposed between individuals, In agreeing grants of Awards in March to reflect differing levels of performance and Change in control provisions 2007, the Remuneration Committee took their seniority within the business.
On a change in control of the Company as into account strong underlying financial a result of a general offer to acquire the whole performance and progress towards achieving Change in control provisions of the issued ordinary share capital of the longer-term goals.
In particular, in coming On a change in control of the Company Company, Awards will vest pro-rata to the to its view, it noted that during 2006: sales as a result of a general offer to acquire the time elapsed between the date of grant of the increased by 11% to $26.5 billion and whole of the issued ordinary share capital Award and the date of the change in control operating profits increased by 28% to of the Company, any unvested Awards vest to the extent that the relevant performance $8.2 billion on a constant exchange rate basis: immediately following the change in control.
targets have been met up to the date of the earnings per share, at $3.36 excluding All outstanding vested Awards can be change in control or the most practicable Toprol, were 34.4% higher and dividends, exercised during the period of six months earlier date.
The Remuneration Committee at $1.72, 32% higher than in 2005: and from the date of the change in control.
will, however, have discretion to take into costs were managed in a disciplined way.
The Company will use its best endeavours account any other factors it believes to be In addition, in 2006, the Company had to ensure that any shares acquired from an relevant in determining the extent to which announced a programme to rationalise exercise following a change in control are Awards will vest in these circumstances.
production assets and to reduce headcount.
subject to the same terms as shares of the Investment in R&D grew by 16% in 2006, same class were acquired under the general AstraZeneca Share Option Plan to $3.9 billion: there were 120 development offer.
Unexercised Awards will lapse at the end The AstraZeneca Share Option Plan SOP projects: 49 in pre-clinical, 23 in clinical of the six-month period following a change in was approved by shareholders at the AGM phase I, 20 in phase II, and 28 in phase III: control or, if the Award is exchanged for an in 2000 and provides for the grant of share five new chemical entities were in late stage option relating to shares in a different company, option awards Awards over Ordinary development: 11 applications were made to the date of exchange, whichever is earlier.
Shares or American Depositary Shares in regulatory authorities for new indications for AstraZeneca PLC together, the Shares.
existing products: for example to the FDA for Dilution Seroquel in bipolar depression: 10 of these The dilutive effect of the proposed grants Basis of participation were approved: and 325 further R&D of Awards on the Companys issued The Remuneration Committee is responsible collaborations with outside agencies were share capital was also considered by the for setting the policy for the way in which the agreed.
In order to both supplement the Remuneration Committee, in accordance SOP should be operated, including agreeing short-term pipeline and to accelerate access REMUNERATION REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 105 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED with its commitment, reflecting the ABIs Service contracts Policy on external appointments guidance, that the percentage of the issued Details of the service contracts for each of and retention of fees share capital that could be allocated under the Executive Directors, including their notice Subject to the specific approval of the all of the Companys employee share plans periods, are set out in the table below.
Board in each case, Executive Directors and over a period of 10 years should be under The notice periods in the Executive Directors members of the SET may accept external 10%.
This commitment is applied by the service contracts are 12 months, but in the appointments as non-executive directors of Remuneration Committee in practice as a case of Simon Lowth his 12 month notice may other companies and retain any related fees limit, on average, of under 1% per annum.
not expire prior to the second anniversary paid to them provided always that such The Remuneration Committee concluded that of his employment commencing.
To recruit external appointments are not considered a grant of Awards to those plan participants Simon Lowth it was necessary to offer him by the Board to prevent or reduce the ability and individual Executive Directors proposed an initial one year period before the 12 month of the executive to perform his or her role to for a grant was appropriate given the level notice could be served.
It is the Boards the required standard.
Such appointments of performance achieved.
None of the other intention that all Executive Directors should are seen as a way in which executives can long-term incentive plans currently operated have notice periods that do not exceed gain a broader business experience and, by the Company have a dilutive effect because 12 months.
Where it is necessary to offer in turn, benefit the Company.
they do not involve the issue and allotment longer notice periods to new directors it is of new Shares or ADSs in the Company but the Boards intention that the notice period In respect of any external appointments held rather rely on the market purchase of Shares should reduce to a maximum of 12 months by Executive Directors and in relation to the or ADSs that have already been issued.
after the initial period, such as in Simon retention of any such fees, John Patterson Lowths case.
is a non-executive director of Cobham plc.
In Zeneca 1994 Executive Share respect of such position, he retained the fees Option Scheme It is the Boards intention that, in the event paid to him for his services which, in 2007, This plan was replaced by the AstraZeneca of early termination of an Executive Directors totalled 51,500.
The last grant of options employment, any compensation payable under this plan was in March 2000.
Certain under the service contract should not exceed Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors and members of the SET the salary and benefits that would have been None of the Non-Executive Directors has have options outstanding under this plan, received had the contractual notice period a service contract.
They are not eligible for all of which are exercisable, the performance been worked and this may be further reduced performance-related bonuses or the grant conditions having been satisfied.
A description in line with the Executive Directors duty to of share options.
No pension contributions of this plan can be found on page 156. mitigate losses.
Compensation for any bonus are made on their behalf.
None of the Nonentitlement will be assessed initially as on Executive Directors have participated or will Other plans target but subject to adjustment by the participate in any decision made by the Board In addition to the plans described above, Remuneration Committee to take account of in relation to the determination of their fees.
the Company operates a Share Incentive the particular circumstances of the termination.
Plan and a Savings-Related Share Option In addition, in the case of the Executive The remainder of this report was subject to Plan, both of which are UK HM Revenue & Director Development only, the unreduced audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
Certain Executive pension entitlement described under the Directors and members of the SET are Pensions section on page 108 would be AUDIT eligible to participate in these plans, more payable.
In the case of Simon Lowth only, The Directors emoluments in 2007 and detailed descriptions of which can be found his service contract provides that, in the the details of the Directors interests in the on pages 154 and 156. event of termination during the first 12 months Companys Ordinary Shares disclosed in the of his employment, his entitlement to Directors Emoluments section on pages 106 Restricted Stock Unit Plans compensation payable for the balance of to 114 have been audited by the Companys The AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP the initial 12 month period in which he has external auditor.
Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan RSU Plan not worked will be less than any salary and was introduced in 2007 and provides for the benefits to which he would have been grant of restricted stock unit awards Awards entitled had he worked during that period.
to selected employees predominantly in the US.
The RSU Plan is used in conjunction with the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan to provide DETAILS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2007 a mix of restricted stock units and share Date of Unexpired term at Notice 1 options.
Awards typically vest on the third Executive Director service contract 31 December 2007 period anniversary of the date of grant and are David Brennan 1 January 2006 12 months 12 months contingent on continued employment with 2 Simon Lowth 5 November 2007 22 months 12 months AstraZeneca.
In 2007, Awards were made John Patterson 1 January 2005 12 months 12 months on 30 March and 24 August.
In addition, the RSU Plan has also been used in 2007 1 None of the Executive Directors have any provision in their service contracts giving them a right to to make Awards to certain employees liquidated damages or an automatic entitlement to bonus for the duration of their notice period.
2 within the MedImmune part of the Group Simon Lowths notice period was set at 24 months from the effective date of the contract.
After an initial 12 month period, this reduces to and remains at 12 months.
REMUNERATION REPORT 106 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS IN 2007 The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions and the value of shares under option and shares subject to performance share plan awards, paid to or accrued for all Directors of the Company for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2007 was 4.5 million $9.0 million.
The remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in sterling and US dollars.
All salaries, fees, bonuses and other benefits for Directors are established in sterling.
7 into shares to be held for a three-year period, as explained on page 102.
Part year only as ceased to be Director on 12 April 2007.
This comprises Bridget Ogilvies 2006 total of 18,000 $34,000.
3 9 Part year only as appointed Director on 5 November 2007.
This comprises Tom McKillops 2005 total of 2,253,000 $4,125,000, 4 Part year only as appointed Director on 25 July 2007.
Bridget Ogilvies 2005 total of 57,000 $104,000 and ke Stavlings final 5 Part year only as ceased to be Director on 31 July 2007. payment of 36,000 $66,000.
In the tables on this page and page 106, salaries have been converted between sterling and US dollars at the average exchange rate for the year in question.
These rates were: GBP USD 2005 0.546 2006 0.547 2007 0.500 The Executive Directors were also granted options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares and awards of Ordinary Shares under the Companys long-term incentive plans the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan and the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
Details of share options granted to, and exercised by, Directors and the aggregate of gains realised on the exercise of options, and of awards under the long-term incentive plans, in the year are given on pages 110 to 114.
No Director has a family relationship with any other Director.
REMUNERATION REPORT 108 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PENSIONS Defined benefit arrangements Pensions are payable to Directors in sterling, with the exception of David Brennans, whose pension is payable in US dollars.
For ease of understanding, the table below has been presented in both sterling and US dollars using the exchange rates for 2007 set out on the previous page.
David John Jonathan David John Jonathan Brennan Patterson Symonds Brennan Patterson Symonds 000 000 000 $000 $000 $000 Defined Benefit Arrangements 1.
Incr ease in accrued pension during year as a result of inflation 12 6 24 12 3.
Adjustment to accrued pension as a result of salary increase relative to inflation 77 1 7 155 2 14 4.
Increase in accrued pension as a result of additional service 10 11 8 21 22 16 5.
Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 1,009 704 525 2,017 1,408 1,050 3 11 5 3 11 5 10.
Pensionable service years as 7 11 7 11 at 31 December 2007 32 32 12 26 12 32 32 12 26 12 Notes For John Patterson and Jonathan Symonds, transfer values are calculated on the market related basis used by the AstraZeneca UK Pension Plan, in line with the GN11 guidance note published by the Board for Actuarial Standards in the UK.
The basis is to be reviewed during early 2008.
For David Brennan, transfer values are calculated to be consistent with the value of the lump sum distribution equivalent to his deferred accrued pension annuity.
The minimum permissible value of such a lump sum distribution will be modified in 2008.
As described on page 101, David Brennan will reach age 55 during 2008 at which point he will become entitled to receive his benefits immediately on retirement without reduction for payment before normal pension age.
This will result in a recalculation of his transfer value, which will be reflected in this table for 2008.
The figures shown above reflect David Brennans participation in the AstraZeneca US Defined Benefit Pension Plan qualified and non-qualified pension plans.
For John Patterson, member contributions of 20,000 $40,000, being 4% of pensionable salary, are paid through salary sacrifice, and as such no employee contributions are shown above or included within emoluments.
Jonathan Symonds left the Board on 31 July 2007.
The values shown in the table are as at 31 July 2007, or the period ending on that date, as appropriate.
As described on page 101, Jonathan Symonds benefited from a pension promise equivalent to membership of the AstraZeneca UK Defined Benefit Pension Plan, delivered through a combination of savings vehicles and an unfunded top-up benefit to deliver the balance.
Following his departure, the Company made a cash payment amounting to 3.27 million.
The payment extinguishes all pension liabilities the Company has in respect of Jonathan Symonds.
Defined contribution arrangements In addition to the defined benefit arrangements above for David Brennan, an employer matching contribution of 5,000 $10,000 was made to his 401 k plan during 2007.
Simon Lowth joined the Board on 5 November 2007.
As described on page 101, he has chosen to receive the cash allowance in lieu of pension, which during 2007 amounted to 22,000 $44,000.
TRANSACTIONS WITH DIRECTORS There were no material recorded transactions between the Company and the Directors during 2007 or 2006.
REMUNERATION REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 109 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN GRAPHS TSR OVER A FIVE YEAR PERIOD The UK Directors Remuneration Report 200 Regulations 2002 require the inclusion in the 175 Directors Remuneration Report of a graph showing total shareholder return TSR over 150 a five year period in respect of a holding of 125 the Companys shares, plotted against TSR 100 in respect of a hypothetical holding of shares 75 of a similar kind and number by reference JAN 03 JAN 04 JAN 05 JAN 06 JAN 07 JAN 08 to which a broad equity market index is calculated.
The Company is a member of ASTRAZENECA PHARMA PEERS AVERAGE FTSE 100 the FTSE 100 Index and consequently, for the purposes of this graph, which is set out opposite, we have selected the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate index.
This graph is TSR ASTRAZENECA COMPARED WITH PEER GROUP 1 JAN 2005 TO 31 DEC 2007 re-based to 100 at the start of the rolling FOR THE 2005 AWARD five-year period.
We have also included a 140 Pharma Peers Average, which reflects the 120 TSR of the same comparator group used for 100 the Performance Share Plan graphs opposite.
80 60 The AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan 40 PSP referred to on pages 103 to 104 20 requires that the TSR in respect of a holding 0 of the Companys shares over the relevant -10 performance period be compared with the TSR of a peer group of 12 other pharmaceutical companies.
The graphs opposite show how the Companys TSR performance has compared with the TSR for the companies TSR ASTRAZENECA COMPARED WITH PEER GROUP 1 JAN 2006 TO 31 DEC 2007 in the comparator group from the first day in FOR THE 2006 AWARD the relevant three-year performance period 140 in respect of each Award to 31 December 120 2007 and how the Company ranks against 100 those other companies on this basis.
80 60 To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return 40 index is averaged in the TSR calculations for 20 each company over the three months prior 0 to the start of the relevant performance -10 period as stipulated in the PSP and, for the purposes of the graphs opposite, over the last three months of 2007.
TSR ASTRAZENECA COMPARED WITH PEER GROUP 1 JAN 2007 TO 31 DEC 2007 FOR THE 2007 AWARD 40 20 0 -20 -30 Source data for all graphs on this page: Thomson Financial Datastream.
SP MRK MRK MRK SP RCH BMS ABT SP ABT BMS ABT J&J PFI BMS LLY J&J WYE WYE WYE GSK RCH LLY J&J GSK RCH AZ 9th SA NOV NOV PFI SA SA NOV GSK LLY AZ 13th AZ 13th PFI REMUNERATION REPORT 110 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES Beneficial interests The table below shows the interests at 31 December 2007 or on the date of resignation if earlier of the persons who on that date were Directors including the interests of their Connected Persons, as such term is defined in the Companies Act 2006 in shares and debentures of AstraZeneca PLC.
All such interests were beneficial except as otherwise stated.
However, interests in Ordinary Shares or American Depositary Shares ADSs that are the subject of awards under the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan, the AstraZeneca Deferred Bonus Plan or the AstraZeneca US Executive Performance Share Plan discussed elsewhere, are not included in the table below but are shown on pages 111 and 112.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Companys subsidiaries.
Between 31 December 2007 and 31 January 2008 there was no change in the interests in shares and debentures shown in the table below, with the exception of John Patterson who acquired a further 625 Ordinary Shares following the exercise of an option under the AstraZeneca Savings Related Share Option Plan.
Bene cial interest in Ordinary Shares Change to Bene cial interest in Ordinary Shares Director at 1 Jan 2007 or appointment date bene cial interest at 31 Dec 2007 or resignation date Louis Schweitzer 4,000 4,000 David Brennan 111,788 3,856 115,644 John Patterson 8,015 8,015 1 Simon Lowth 850 850 John Buchanan 2,500 2,500 Jane Henney 500 500 Michele Hooper 500 500 Hkan Mogren 62,164 62,164 Nancy Rothwell 500 500 John Varley 500 500 Marcus Wallenberg 67,264 67,264 2 Bo Angelin 500 500 Former Directors 3 Jonathan Symonds 11,527 11,527 4 Peter Bonfield 500 500 5 Joe Jimenez 500 500 4 Erna Mller 2,718 2,718 1 Part year only as appointed Director on 5 November 2007.
2 Part year only as appointed Director on 25 July 2007.
3 Part year only as ceased to be Director on 31 July 2007.
4 Part year only as ceased to be Director on 26 April 2007.
5 Part year only as ceased to be Director on 12 April 2007.
Unitised stock plans David Brennan, in common with other participating executives in the US, has interests awarded to him prior to becoming Group CEO in the following: the AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan, the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and the AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan.
These are unitised stock plans into which the value of certain previous share incentive awards has been deferred and are not incentive awards in their own right.
Participants hold units in each plan, which represents a long-term equity interest in the Company.
A unit comprises part cash and part ADSs.
The overall unit value can be determined daily by taking the market value of the underlying ADSs and adding the cash position.
The ADSs held within these units carry both voting and dividend rights.
David Brennan is deemed to have a notional interest in these ADSs, calculated by reference to the fund value and the closing price of ADSs.
Therefore, the number of ADSs in which a notional interest arises can vary daily as a consequence of stock price movements.
ADSs held at Net ADSs ADSs held at Unitised stock plan 1 Jan 2007 acquired disposed during 2007 31 Dec 2007 AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan 76,071 12,282 63,789 AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan 29,103 1,279 30,382 AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan 6,456 527 6,983 No Director or senior executive beneficially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the outstanding shares of the Company, nor do they have different voting rights to other shareholders.
2 This represents the balance as at 31 July 2007, the date of Jonathan Symonds resignation.
In accordance with the plan rules, all Awards lapsed upon his resignation from the Company.
3 Ceased to be a Director on 31 December 2005.
4 To be pro-rated as described on page 74 of the 2005 Directors Remuneration Report.
US Executive Performance Share Plan The interests of David Brennan at 31 December 2007 in ADSs of AstraZeneca PLC that are the subject of awards under the AstraZeneca US Executive Performance Share Plan established in 2000 are not included in the above tables but are shown below.
One ADS equals one Ordinary Share.
The number of ADSs to which David Brennan may become unconditionally entitled on the vesting date will be determined by reference to AstraZenecas total shareholder return compared with that of other companies in the US Pharmaceutical Human Resources Association over the three year performance period from the date of first award.
2 Vesting of 2004 Award was paid out in the form of ADSs.
The ADS price on the vesting date was $54.73.
REMUNERATION REPORT 112 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Deferred Bonus Plan There is a requirement for SET members, including the Executive Directors, to defer a proportion of their bonus and to use it to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company purchased on the market at the prevailing market price for a period of three years from the date on which the shares were first acquired.
The proportion currently deferred into Ordinary Shares is one third of the pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one sixth for all other SET members.
The interests of Directors and former Directors at 31 December 2007, or on the date of resignation if earlier, in Ordinary Shares that are the subject of awards under these arrangements are not included in the table on the previous page but are shown below: 1 1 Award Number of shares Award price Grant date Vesting date David Brennan 2006 Award 6,352 2639p 24.02.06 24.02.09 Total at 1 Jan 2007 6,352 2007 Award 12,014 2911p 23.02.07 23.02.10 Total at 31 Dec 2007 18,366 John Patterson 2006 Award 6,623 2639p 24.02.06 24.02.09 Total at 1 Jan 2007 6,623 2007 Award 5,600 2911p 23.02.07 23.02.10 Total at 31 Dec 2007 12,223 Jonathan Symonds 2006 Award 7,534 2639p 24.02.06 24.02.09 Total at 1 Jan 2007 7,534 2007 Award 6,491 2911p 23.02.07 23.02.10 2 Total at 31 Jul 2007 14,025 1 UK date convention applies.
REMUNERATION REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 113 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHARE OPTIONS The interests of Directors, and of former Directors who served during 2007, in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares in the Company, which include options granted under the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan, the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme, together with options granted and exercised during 2007, are included in the following table.
All grants in 2007 were made under the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan, unless otherwise indicated.
2 First and last exercise dates of groups of options, within which period there are shorter exercise periods.
4 Option granted under the AstraZeneca Savings Related Share Option Plan.
5 This represents the balance as at 31 July 2007, the date of Jonathan Symonds resignation.
REMUNERATION REPORT 114 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED GAINS BY DIRECTORS ON EXERCISE OF SHARE OPTIONS The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year and the two previous years is set out below.
Gains made by Directors on Gains made by the exercise of share options the highest paid Director Year $ $ 2007 783,858.08 2006 2,962,173.19 2,212,636.27 2005 577,795.42 577,407.91 During 2007, the market price of shares in the Company was as follows: Share market price as Range of the share Stock Exchange at 31 December 2007 market price during 2007 London 2164p 2093p to 2984p Stockholm 277.00 SEK 272.00 SEK to 414.00 SEK New York $42.82 $42.82 to $59.04 The Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares.
On behalf of the Board G H R MUSKER Group Secretary and Solicitor 31 January 2008
