Remuneration Report Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to directors remuneration.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the company at which the financial statements will be approved.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the companys members on certain parts of the Directors remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee The Company has established a Remuneration Committee which is constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
The members of the Committee during the year were David Ross and Jonathan Short who are all independent Non-Executive Directors and the Committee is chaired by Mr David White.
None of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-today involvement in running the business.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board.
No Director plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
In determining the Directors remuneration, the Committee consulted the Executive Chairman Nicholas Vetch about his proposals.
The Committee also appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP to provide benchmarking advice on structuring and salary levels of the Directors remuneration packages.
Deloitte & Touche LLP are also the Groups auditors.
Remuneration policy Executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of the high calibre required and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
The performance measurement of the Executive Directors and the determination of their annual remuneration package is undertaken by the Committee.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the full Board.
There are four main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior management: 1.
Basic salary is determined by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year and when an individual changes position or responsibility.
Appropriate salary levels are set by reference to the performance, experience and responsibilities of each individual concerned and having regard to the prevailing market conditions.
Performance related bonuses are assessed annually and determined by the Remuneration Committee and are based on a combination of individual and corporate performance during the year.
The bonuses are capped at 50% of annual basic salary, and are directly linked to the Groups profit and operating cash flow performance.
There is no deferrable element of the bonus, and it is non pensionable.
This years annual bonus award represents 15% of basic salary earned in the year.
Pension contributions of 10% of basic salary are paid into a personal pension plan for each Director.
Share incentives Share options Share options are granted by the Remuneration Committee, and are assessed on an individual basis with a view to motivating and retaining Executive Directors in the longer term.
In accordance with the policy set by the Remuneration Committee immediately prior to the Companys flotation on AIM in May 2000, all Directors share options granted since flotation are subject to the following performance conditions.
In respect of the three year period from the date of grant they will only be exercisable if the aggregate increase in Company total shareholder return exceeds the increase during that period of the FTSE All Share Actuaries Total Return Index by no less than 20% on a straight line basis.
For the period subsequent to these three years, but up to a maximum of six years after the date of the grant, the options will only be exercisable if the aggregate increase in Company total shareholder return exceeds 20% plus 6.67% per annum on a straight line basis, over the FTSE All Share Actuaries Index.
There have been no grants under the Companys share option plans to Directors since December 2002 and the policy is that any future incentivisation of directors will be under the Long Term Incentive Plan described below.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Approval was granted by shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting for a new Long Term Incentive Plan the Plan.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that a new incentive plan using an award of nil-priced options is the most appropriate way to provide a competitive and market-related long term equity opportunity.
The principal reasons for the Remuneration Committee favouring the use of nil-priced options are: the greater alignment of executive reward with shareholder interests: the reduced volatility of nil priced options to general share price movements: and minimising the dilutive impact of the LTIP to the Companys shareholders.
29 Remuneration Report continued Participation in the LTIP is only available to executive Directors and selected senior management.
The first awards under the LTIP to Directors were made on 6 June 2005 when the market price was 195.5p.
Initial awards have been designed to incentivise the executive team for the period between 2005 and 2010, although it is intended that awards under the LTIP will be made on an annual basis thereafter.
Individual grants of options to executive Directors for the first three years of the LTIP 2005 2007 have been determined by the Committee see table below and these were disclosed in the 2004 Remuneration Report and approved by shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Option Option Options to be Director grant 2005 grant 2006 granted 2007 James Gibson 166,666 166,667 166,667 Philip Burks 66,666 66,667 Adrian Lee 50,000 50,000 50,000 Philip Burks has stepped down to the role of non-executive Director from 30 March 2007, and will not be awarded any further options under the LTIP scheme.
The awards for James Gibson and Adrian Lee remain as previously approved by shareholders in 2004 and the Annual General Meetings of 2005 and 2006.
Additionally, the Committee considered the incentive package of Nicholas Vetch, the Executive Chairman.
Nicholas has taken on direct responsibility at Board level for the real estate strategy and the execution of the critical driver of the growth in the business.
The Committee considered that 133,333 options should be awarded to Nicholas Vetch, the first such award to him under the LTIP scheme.
In all other grants to Directors beyond those set out above, it is intended that the maximum annual grant of awards will not exceed 100% of a participants annual base salary, except where the Committee considers there to be exceptional circumstances which justify an award above this limit.
The number of ordinary shares issuable pursuant to awards granted under this LTIP and all other employee share schemes adopted by the Company may not be more than 10% of the ordinary share capital in any ten year period.
Awards will become exercisable subject to the satisfaction of challenging conditions Performance Conditions which will determine how many if any of the awards will vest and become exercisable after the end of the performance period.
The period over which performance will be measured shall not be less than three years.
Performance Conditions will be determined at the sole discretion of the Committee at the time of award and will be objective and linked to the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Any award under the LTIP that does not vest at the end of the specified performance period will lapse.
The extent to which awards to be granted under the LTIP in May 2005 will vest and become exercisable will be determined by reference to the Companys total shareholder return TSR relative to the FTSE All Share Index and the following targets will apply.
Total Shareholder Return Performance Level Amount of Award Vesting % Upper Quartile Full vesting Median to Upper Quartile Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis Median and below Nil The Committee has selected the FTSE All Share Index because it enables the Companys performance to be compared to a broad index that reflects the corporate performance of UK companies.
As such it provides a comparator which demonstrates the Companys overall performance against the prevailing market conditions across the performance period.
Vesting of awards made in May 2005 under the LTIP will also be subject to the growth in the Companys earnings per share EPS exceeding the UK Retail Price Index RPI by an average of 3 per cent a year over the performance period commencing with the financial year in which the award is made.
The Committee reserve the right to vary the Performance Condition for future grants provided that in its reasonable judgment the new targets are no less challenging in the light of the Companys business circumstances and its internal forecasts.
Sharesave Scheme The Scheme is open to all UK employees including Directors with a minimum of six months service and meets UK Inland Revenue approval requirements, thus enabling all eligible employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company in a tax efficient manner.
Directors Contracts The Executive Directors contracts do not allow them to engage in any other business outside the Group except where prior written consent from the Committee is received.
All of the service agreements may be terminated by either party giving notice of 12 months.
If a contract is terminated at short notice, the Company has not waived any right which it may have at law to require the Executive Director to mitigate his loss although the Company is entitled at its discretion to pay the salary to which the Executive Director would otherwise be entitled, in lieu of notice.
30 Remuneration Report continued The dates of the Executive Directors agreements are as follows: Nicholas Vetch 25 September 1998 Philip Burks 25 September 1998 until 30 March 2007 James Gibson 25 September 1998 Adrian Lee 31 March 2000 The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
Their appointments are governed by letters of appointment which are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered office and which will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
Each appointment is for a period of up to three years, usually to the date of the AGM at which a resolution to re-appoint the Director would next be put to shareholders, although the continued appointment of all Directors is considered on an annual basis.
In addition, the appointment is terminable by either party giving notice of three months.
External Appointments With approval from the Board, Executive Directors may accept an external appointment as a Non-Executive Director role elsewhere, and retain any related fees.
Mr Vetch is a Non-Executive Director of Blue Self Storage S. L, a Spanish self storage business, and the Local Shopping REIT plc, a UK listed property business.
Mr Gibson is a Non-Executive Director of AnyJunk Limited.
Mr Vetch receives a Non-Executive fee of 20,000 per annum from Blue Self Storage S. L and 30,000 per annum from Local Shopping REIT plc.
Mr Gibson does not receive any fees for his services.
Philip Burks, Nicholas Vetch, James Gibson and Adrian Lee are partners in Football Fever LLP, from which they do not receive any fees.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board taking into account current practices in other similar companies.
No further fees for work performed for the Group in respect of membership of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees are paid.
Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Groups share option schemes or Long Term Incentive Plan and are not eligible to join the Groups pension arrangements.
Performance Graph The Total Shareholder Return TSR performance graph below sets out the comparison of the Companys TSR against the FTSE All Share Index and FTSE Real Estate Index.
TSR measures share price growth, with dividends deemed to be reinvested gross on the ex-dividend date, and the TSR is shown as the one month average on each day.
David Ross 7,000,000 11,354,140 Nicholas Vetch including trusts 11,425,000 9,417,000 Philip Burks including trusts 10,396,000 8,767,000 James Gibson including trusts 2,613,000 2,363,000 Adrian Lee including trusts 818,880 818,880 David White 350,000 250,000 Jonathan Short 91,700 91,700 None of the Directors had any direct interests in the share capital of any of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company in the year.
Directors share options Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Directors.
32 Remuneration Report continued Options in respect of ordinary shares for Directors who served during the year are as follows: No of No.
or date of cessation of appointment, if earlier.
Options granted up to and including 16 December 2002 have all been assessed by the Committee.
The Committee has confirmed that these options have met the performance conditions, and may therefore be exercised.
The market price of the Companys shares at 31 March 2007 was 669p.
The highest market price during the year was 705p per share, the lowest market price during the year was 362p, and the average price during the year was 513p.
Pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Financial Promotion Order 2001, it should be noted that past performance of the Companys share price cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Approval This report was approved by the board of directors on 18 May 2007 and signed on its behalf by: David White Committee Chairman 18 May 2007 33
