R eport on directors remuneration Remuneration committee Review of remuneration arrangements The remuneration committee the committee is chaired The company has operated with an essentially unchanged by Mr Farnes and Messrs Neathercoat and Corbyn served remuneration structure for its senior executive team since throughout the year.
Following the acquisition of London Merchant acquired London Merchant Securities plc and Mrs fide Moller Securities plc, the committee felt it was an appropriate time and Mr Newell joined the committee.
None of the members to assess whether these arrangements remain appropriate who have served during the year had any personal interest and consistent with its remuneration policy and accordingly in the matters decided by the committee, or any day to day commissioned an independent review by HNBS.
Following involvement in the running of the business and, therefore, this review, the committee has decided that a number are considered to be independent.
of changes should be made to the senior executives remuneration structure as outlined in the report below.
The committees responsibilities include determining The committee believes that the changes will enable remuneration packages for the executive directors.
It also the company to provide a remuneration package that oversees the operation of the groups performance share is competitive, challenging and, by rewarding executives plan.
The terms of reference of the committee are available for significant financial and share price out-performance, on the groups website.
aligned with the interests of its shareholders.
During the year the committee undertook a review, One of the key findings of the review was that the total discussed below, of its remuneration arrangements for value of the executive directors existing remuneration senior executives.
Hewitt New Bridge Street LLP packages was generally significantly below market levels.
HNBS were retained to assist with this review.
HNBS The committee is very keen to retain its current executive also provided independent assistance to the committee team to continue the excellent growth of recent years in relation to its determination of the extent of vesting of and accordingly recognises that it needs to offer an outstanding share awards.
No director had any involvement appropriately competitive remuneration package.
Variable in determining his own remuneration although some of the rather than fixed pay will be the primary basis of the potential matters considered by the committee were discussed with increase in remuneration and that is only payable in the Mr Burns.
The company secretary acted as secretary to event of the company performing strongly.
Elements of remuneration package Remuneration policy a Base salary and benefits The key aims of the committees remuneration policy for Base salaries for executive directors are reviewed annually senior executives are: by the committee with changes being effective from 1st January.
Salaries effective from 1st January 2008, to ensure that the company attracts, employs and adjusted following the review, are John Burns 500,000, motivates executives that have the skills and experience Simon Silver 425,000, Chris Odom 315,000, Nigel necessary to make a significant contribution to the George 300,000, Paul Williams 300,000 and David delivery of the groups objectives: Silverman 220,000. to incentivise key executives by use of a remuneration package that is appropriately competitive with other real The executive directors receive a pension contribution estate companies taking into account the significantly worth 20% of base salary to a defined contribution scheme enhanced size and complexity of the roles following or a salary supplement in lieu of this contribution.
The the acquisition of London Merchant Securities plc and principal benefits in kind comprise a company car and the experience and importance to the business of the medical insurance.
individuals involved, whilst also having broad regard to levels of remuneration in similar sized FTSE 350 b Annual bonus companies: Since 2004, the annual bonus scheme has allowed executive directors to earn up to 100% of salary in cash to align, as far as possible, the interests of the senior each year, two thirds based on Adjusted Net Asset Value executives with those of shareholders by providing a NAV growth and one third at the discretion of the significant proportion of the directors total remuneration committee.
potential through a balanced mix of shortand long-term performance related elements: and Following the review, the committee has decided that the to ensure that incentive schemes are subject to maximum bonus potential should be increased in 2008 appropriately stretching performance conditions and to 150% of salary for John Burns and Simon Silver and designed so as to be consistent with best practice.
to 125% of salary for the other executive directors.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 87 R eport on directors remuneration Any bonus worth up to 100% of salary will continue to be Vesting of future awards under the PSP will, therefore, paid in cash.
However, any bonus earned above 100% normally occur provided that the executive is still employed of salary will be compulsorily deferred in shares with half at the end of the three-year vesting period and to the extent released 12 months after award and the remainder that pre-set performance targets have been satisfied.
These shares will be Performance targets for the initial awards will be as follows: potentially forfeitable if the executive leaves prior to the 50% of an award will be determined by the companys share release date.
TSR compared to that of the companies listed below: Land Securities Group plc Annual bonus measures for 2008 will be based 75% on two British Land Company plc financial measures, namely NAV growth and Total Return Liberty International plc being NAV growth plus dividends and 25% at the committees Hammerson plc discretion linked to the achievement of pre-set personal Segro plc and strategic targets.
The committee felt that it was Great Portland Estates plc appropriate for a greater proportion of bonus to be determined Brixton plc by financial measures than previously hence the increase Shaftesbury plc to a 75% weighting.
It also felt that, as a REIT, dividend Quintain Estates and Development plc performance should determine part of the bonus, hence Workspace Group plc the inclusion of Total Return as a measure for the first time.
Big Yellow Group plc St Modwen Properties plc c Long-term incentives Mapeley Estates Ltd Under the existing performance share plan PSP, approved Capital & Regional plc by shareholders at the 2004 AGM, selected individuals may Minerva plc receive a conditional award of shares worth up to 100% of salary.
This award will normally be released after three years TSR will be measured over a single three-year performance subject to continued employment with half being subject to period from the date of grant and will be calculated by a Total Shareholder Return TSR performance measure comparing average performance over three months and the other half being subject to a NAV performance prior to the start and end of the performance period.
This mix of measures is felt by the committee to 50% of an award will be determined by the companys be appropriate as it rewards executives for achieving above NAV growth compared to the return from properties in market levels of growth in asset value and above market the IPD Central London Offices Total Return Index over returns to shareholders.
Details of outstanding share the performance period.
Performance will be measured entitlements under the scheme, along with associated over a single three-year period from the start of the performance conditions, are set out below in Table 2. financial year in which the award is granted.
Following the independent review, a number of changes are Vesting will be on the basis outlined below: proposed to the PSP which, subject to the changes receiving TSR NAV growth Vesting shareholder approval, would apply to grants following the performance performance percentage 2008 AGM.
Full details of the proposed changes, and the Below median Below median 0% rationale underlying them, are outlined in the chairmans letter in the circular to shareholders dated 22nd April 2008 Median Median 25% which accompanies the report and accounts but, in Upper quartile Out-perform median by 5% p. a.
100% summary, it is proposed that for future awards: Pro rata between Intermediate performance 25% and 100% The maximum permitted annual award level of shares will be increased from 100% of salary to 200% of salary The committee will have discretion to reduce the extent with a higher limit of 300% of salary for use in the event of vesting in the event that it feels that performance of exceptional circumstances such as recruitment.
against the relevant measure of performance whether Award policy within this limit will be limited initially to TSR or NAV growth is inconsistent with underlying annual awards worth no more than 175% of salary for financial performance.
John Burns and Simon Silver and 150% of salary for other directors.
Awards will be satisfied by either newly issued shares or shares purchased in the market.
Any use of newly The TSR performance condition will compare issued shares will be limited to corporate governance performance with a comparator group comprising a compliant dilution limits contained in the scheme rules.
selected group of real estate companies rather than the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Shareholder approval will also be sought at the AGM for sector as at present.
a new share option scheme to replace the 1997 Executive The NAV performance condition will reward executives Share Option Scheme which expired last year.
Executive for the extent of out-performance of the total return of the directors are not eligible to participate in this scheme.
median performing property in the IPD Central London Full details of the scheme are outlined in the circular to Offices Total Return Index rather than the median to shareholders dated 22nd April 2008 which accompanies upper quartile vesting scale currently employed.
R eport on directors remuneration Shareholding guideline Service contracts Following the independent review, and in line with best The service contracts of Messrs. Burns, Silver and Odom practice, a share ownership guideline has been introduced are dated 20th May 1997 whilst those of Messrs. George for executive directors requiring them to retain at least half of and Williams are dated 31st March 1999 and that of any share awards vesting from 1st January 2009 as shares Mr Silverman 2nd January 2008.
The contracts have no after paying any tax due on the shares until they have a stated termination date but require 12 months notice of shareholding worth at least 100% of their salary 200% of termination by the company or six months notice by the salary for the CEO.
A provision is included whereby the company will pay, by way of liquidated damages, a cash amount equivalent to 12 months salary and benefits in kind plus a pension contribution or salary supplement of at least 20% of basic salary.
The remuneration committee reviews its policy in relation to executive service contracts periodically and a review is scheduled for 2008.
F or the period 1st February 2007 to 18th July 2007.
In addition to the above, Mr Friedlos received a predetermined compensation payment of 536,758 when he resigned from the company.
This was in accordance with a clause in his service agreement which had been preserved from his service contract with LMS Services Limited.
The bonus paid to Mr Ivey in 2007 was in recognition of the extra duties undertaken during the acquisition and integration of London Merchant Securities plc.
The under provision of the 2006 bonus, which has been Chairman and non-executive directors recognised in the 2007 results, is the amount by which the The remuneration for the chairman is set by the full board.
final award under the bonus scheme exceeded the estimated The remuneration for non-executive directors, which consists amount included in the 2006 results.
The result could only of fees for their services in connection with board and board be ascertained once the results of all the comparator committee meetings and, where relevant, for additional companies had been announced.
The total remuneration services such as chairing a board committee, is set by for 2006, which was previously disclosed as 4,698,000, the whole board.
Neither the chairman nor non-executive has been revised to allow a correct comparison to be made directors are eligible for pension scheme membership and between the two years.
do not participate in the companys bonus or equity based incentive schemes.
Mr Burns received fees of 40,000 2006: 37,500 in respect of his position as a non-executive director of The The non-executive directors do not have service contracts Davis Service Group.
In accordance with the committees and are appointed for three year terms which expire as policy, the fees are retained by Mr Burns.
follows: Mr Ivey, 12th December 2008, Mr Farnes, 31st March 2009, Mr Corbyn, 23rd May 2009, Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell, 31st January 2010 and Mr Neathercoat, 28th February 2011.
Mr Rayne has a letter of appointment, which runs for three years, expiring on 31st January 2010.
In addition to his fee as chairman, it provides for a car, driver and secretary, together with a contribution to his office running costs.
His letter of appointment also contains provisions relating to payment in lieu of notice, which are similar to those for the executive directors.
The balance of the award lapsed.
Offices Total Return Index for the same period.
If the growth At the same time the committee considered whether the in NAV is less than the return from the median performing groups total shareholder return reflected its underlying property in the IPD Index, no shares will vest.
If growth in financial performance.
Having taken into account the growth NAV is equal to the return from the median performing in net assets and profits over the period, the committee property in the IPD index, 25% will vest and the entitlement concluded that this was the case.
The participants had will then increase on a sliding scale up to 100% which is six months in which to exercise the vested option and the achieved if NAV growth equals the return from the upper shares were allotted on 21st November 2007. quartile performing property in the IPD Index.
For awards granted in 2004-2007, half of the shares vest according to TSR performance compared to the constituents, as at the date of grant, of the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Index.
At a median level of performance, 25% will vest.
At or above an upper quartile level of performance, 100% will vest.
Between these two points, vesting will accrue on a straight-line basis.
This element will only vest if the committee is also satisfied that the TSR performance reflects underlying financial performance.
No options were granted during 2007 and no options lapsed during 2007 or 2006.
Those exercisable on share option scheme is subject to a three-year performance 16th April 2002, 14th April 2003, 12th April 2004, 15th April criteria.
This states that a years options can only be exercised 2005, 22nd April 2006 and 5th July 2007 have met this once the growth of the groups net asset value per share criteria.
Subsequent options have yet to be tested.
No options over a subsequent three-year period exceeds the increase lapsed during the year.
of the IPD Central London Office Capital Growth Index over Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 93 R eport on directors remuneration As a result of the acquisition, options that had already vested under LMSs Executive Share Option Scheme were converted to options over Derwent London shares.
During the year, was 13.20 and the weighted average exercise price they traded in a range between 13.09 and 22.80. was 18.98.
The weighted average exercise price of the options outstanding at 31st December 2007 was 9.74 and the weighted average remaining contracted life was 4.1 years.
No options lapsed during 2007 R eport on directors remuneration Performance graph Total shareholder return compared to the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Index.
400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 Derwent London FTSE All-Share Real Estate Index Net investment 20022007 This graph shows the value, by the end of 2007, of 100 invested in Derwent Valley Holdings Derwent London compared to that of 100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Index.
This index has been chosen by the committee as it is considered the most appropriate benchmark against which to assess the relative performance of the company for this purpose.
To produce a fair value, each point is a 30 day average of the return.
The disclosure on directors remuneration in Tables 1 to 4 above has been audited as required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
On behalf of the board R. A. Farnes Chairman of the remuneration committee 18th March 2008 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2005 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2007
