Walter Hens Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Director of Group Business Development Appointed as a Group Executive Director on 1 January 2007.
Member of the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee He is responsible for the Group Business Development and the Remuneration Committee function, which focuses on our major customers and Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2001. market segments, generating and securing significant He is Chairman of Interserve plc, a Non-Executive Director large scale opportunities for profitable growth across the of Standard Life plc, a senior adviser to KPMGs Corporate Group.
He joined SEGRO in 1989, was responsible for Finance practice, a Non-Executive Board Member of the Belgian operations until 2004.
He was responsible for the Office of Fair Trading Limited, and Chairman of the Centre European Operations from 2004 until the end of 2007.
He was previously a partner with joined the Executive Committee in September 2005.
Prior to McKinsey & Company, Head of the Prime Ministers Policy joining SEGRO, he was with Imofo now Banimmo.
He is a Unit from 1995-97, Director of Group Development at Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
NatWest Group, and a Non-Executive Director of The Corporate Services Group plc and Smartstream 11.
Group Finance Director Appointed as Group Finance Director on 1 January 2006.
Stephen L Howard Previously, he was Finance Director of Wagon plc, the Non-Executive Director international automotive engineering group from 1999 to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member of the 2005.
From 1982 to 1999 he worked for Arthur Andersen, Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee latterly as a partner and Head of Audit & Assurance for the Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 16 May 2001.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered He is a Non-Executive Director of Balfour Beatty plc, holds Accountants in England and Wales and a non-executive memberships of the advisory councils of various private director of Bunzl plc.
and non-profit organisations, and is the Chief Executive of Business in the Community.
He was previously Group Chief Executive of Cookson Group plc and then Novar plc.
Thom Wernink Non-Executive Director Member of the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 23 May 2005.
He is a Non-Executive Director on a number of property and investment companies based in Continental Europe.
He was previously Chairman of the European Public Real Estate Association and of Corio NV, a Netherlands-based property company with retail, office and retail interests across Europe.
Michael Waring Chief Operating Officer, Continental Europe Director of Corporate Communications Appointed to the Executive Committee on joining SEGRO Appointed to the Executive Committee on joining SEGRO in October 2007.
She is responsible for the Continental in October 2005.
He set up SEGROs first in-house Europe property portfolio.
Prior to joining SEGRO, she was Communications function and his responsibilities include Chief Executive Officer CEO of ICADE EMGP, Business Investor Relations.
Prior to joining SEGRO, he was global Property Market Director ICADE, CEO Icade Tertial, and Director of Communications for United Business Media and Managing Director ICADE.
Prior to ICADE she held senior prior to that he held a range of strategy, regulatory and management positions with responsibility for development, international business development roles at BAA.
He operations and corporate real estate at Coprim.
She was trained in Chartered Accountancy at KPMG Peat Marwick.
Chairperson and CEO of ICADE EMPG of ICADE EUROGEM.
John Probert Director of Group Strategy Group Company Secretary Appointed to the Executive Committee in October 2005.
Appointed to the Executive Committee in August 2003.
He is responsible for development of the Group strategic He is responsible for Company Secretariat, insurance and framework, Group marketing and SEGRO brand business continuity planning.
He joined SEGRO in 1986 as management.
He joined SEGRO in 1986 and in 1997 he Assistant Company Secretary and became Company moved to the UK property business.
In 2003 he joined the Secretary in 1990.
Prior to joining SEGRO, he was with Strategy Unit and in 2005 was appointed Head of Group Metal Box.
Prior to joining SEGRO, he trained with Coopers & Lybrand.
Jennifer Titford Group Director of Human Resources 06.
Andrew Gulliford Appointed to the Executive Committee on joining SEGRO in Director of Logistics June 2003.
She is responsible for Group Human Resources.
Appointed to the Executive Committee on joining SEGRO in She is also a Board member for the Council of July 2004.
He is responsible for growing SEGRO's Logistics Management of Corporate Health Ltd, a charitable trust.
business across the Group and is a director of HelioSlough, Prior to joining SEGRO, she was Head of Human Resource the Companys logistics joint venture.
Prior to joining for the property company of J Sainsbury plc, and Head of SEGRO, he was European Director for Industrial Services Human Resources for UK Store Development, Operations at Jones Lang LaSalle.
and Group Estates at Marks & Spencer.
Governance SEGRO plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2007 complements SEGROs strategy for further development in Statement of Compliance 49.
Lesley MacDonagh brings a wealth of The Company complied with the provisions of The Combined experience to the Board as a highly regarded City lawyer.
Code on Corporate Governance the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Companys application of The Board considered the independence of all of the Nonthe principles of the Code is set out in this report and the Executive Directors against the Code and determined that Remuneration Report.
The Chairman was considered independent on appointment.
The Board The Board of Directors represents the shareholders interests There is a formal and rigorous procedure for the appointment in maintaining and growing a successful business including of new Directors to the Board.
All Directors are subject to optimising consistent long-term financial returns.
The Board periodic re-appointment by the shareholders at three-yearly has a responsibility to the Groups customers, employees intervals and are required to submit themselves for election and suppliers and to the communities where it operates at the Annual General Meeting AGM following their and invests.
The Articles of Association of the Company provide for a minimum number of Directors who must retire The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it including, by rotation.
but not limited to, strategy and management, structure and capital, financial reporting controls, internal control, Board Table of Attendance membership and other appointments, remuneration, Directors who were unable to attend meetings received the delegation of authority, corporate governance, major papers for those meetings, enabling them to send their acquisitions and disposals and development approvals.
comments to the Chairman prior to the meeting as appropriate.
Board meetings are held on a regular basis with meetings being programmed throughout the year.
Additional ad-hoc Remuneration Audit meetings are arranged when necessary.
Board papers are Name Board Committee Committee circulated one week in advance of Board meetings.
The Nigel Rich 10 2 1 Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, Lord Blackwell 1044 is responsible for ensuring that the Board receives timely Stephen Howard 10 4 5 advice on all material information about the Company, its Lesley MacDonagh 10 4 n a subsidiaries, activities, performance, projects and any Christopher Peacock 10 4 n a significant variances from a planned course of progress.
Andrew Palmer 9 n a 5 Thom Wernink 9 n a 4 All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Ian Coull 10 n a n a Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for John Heawood 10 n a n a ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Directors Walter Hens 10 n a n a have the right to consult with the Companys professional David Sleath 10 n a n a advisers and to seek independent professional advice at the Marshall Lees 4 n a n a Companys reasonable expense.
Total number of meetings 10 4 5 The Board has delegated a number of its responsibilities to the Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Nigel Rich stepped down from the Audit and Remuneration Committee Committees.
The terms of reference of these committees can with effect from 14 May 2007.
Marshall Lees resigned from the Board on 1 August 2007. be found at www.
com as can the terms of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors, Chairman and There were no meetings of the Nomination Committee Chief Executive.
One and a half days are set aside each year in 2007.
The Committee met on 30 January 2008. primarily for the development of the Group strategy.
Board Development Board Composition On appointment, new Directors are given a comprehensive, The biographical details of the members of the Board are formal and tailored introduction to the Groups business contained on pages 46 to 47.
The Board comprises a balance including visits to the Groups operations and meetings with of skills and experience which are appropriate for the senior management.
Directors are encouraged to continually requirements of the business.
The division of responsibilities update their professional skills and capabilities, together with between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly their knowledge of the Companys business.
During 2007, established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
briefings by senior management and the Companys legal advisors were provided in respect of the changes introduced In addition to the Chairman, there are six Non-Executive by Companies Act 2006, including those related to directors Directors, Lesley MacDonagh having being appointed as a duties and conflicts of interest and in respect of the new Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2007.
Lord Blackwell is offence of corporate manslaughter.
Briefings were also the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
There are provided on the operation, drivers, key risks and economic four Executive Directors, Walter Hens having being appointed outlook for the property market in the UK and Continental as an Executive Director on 1 January 2007 and Marshall Europe and the key risks and economic outlook facing the Lees having resigned on 1 August 2007, following the disposal sector.
A number of papers supporting these briefings were of the US business.
The appointment of Walter Hens, provided by external property market analysts.
Executive Director Group Business Development, SEGRO.
com Corporate Governance During the year, the Audit Committee ran a tender process Board Performance Evaluation 50. for the role of external auditors to the Group.
As a result of The Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its own the tender process, Deloitte & Touche LLP were appointed by performance.
The Chairman, assisted by the Company the Board as external auditors in June 2007.
A resolution will Secretary, leads this process.
The performance evaluation be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM proposing the consists of each Director completing a wide ranging appraisal formal appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors.
questionnaire which is based on the process and questions outlined in the Code.
The questionnaire provides a forum for The Committee met regularly with the internal and external giving feedback on the running of the Board, any weaknesses auditors during the year.
The Committee discharged its which need to be addressed and where the Board is responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference.
The responses to the questionnaire are reviewed by the Chairman and the Board.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to: As a result of the 2007 review, the Chairman recommended investigate any activity within its terms of reference: the following changes: a more frequent review of strategy in difficult times: the commissioning of a review as to how the seek any information that it requires from any employee Company adds value: suggestions as to the content of Board of the Company and all employees are directed to coagendas: and the provision of Audit and Remuneration operate with any request made by the Committee: and Committee questionnaires constructed on a similar basis to those used for the Board performance evaluation.
It has been obtain outside legal or independent professional advice agreed that the 2008 Board performance review will be and such advisors may attend meetings as necessary.
The types of non-audit work that the auditors may undertake The Senior Non-Executive Director chaired a meeting of the has been restricted and other categories of non-audit work Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman to are subject to pre-clearance, as are assignments over certain appraise the Chairmans performance taking into account the financial limits.
The external auditors have confirmed their views of the Executive Directors.
A similar review of the Chief independence to the Committee in writing.
Executive took place with the Chairman present.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met during the Risk Management year with the Chief Executive and Director of Human Details of the Groups risk management processes are Resources to discuss succession planning.
Committees of the Board Nomination Committee The Board is responsible for monitoring the following The Nomination Committee consisted throughout the year Committees and the minutes of the meetings of these of Nigel Rich Chairman, Ian Coull, Andrew Palmer, Committees are made available to the Board on a timely basis: Christopher Peacock, Lord Blackwell, Stephen Howard and Thom Wernink.
Lesley MacDonagh joined the Committee Executive Committee with effect from 31 January 2008.
The Committee has During 2007, the Executive Committee comprised Ian Coull, responsibility for making recommendations for new John Heawood, Walter Hens, Marshall Lees until 1 August appointments to the Board and for ensuring that the process 2007, David Sleath, Andrew Gulliford, John Probert, Jennifer for all appointments is formal, rigorous and transparent.
The Titford, Michael Waring, Roger Bell and Ins Reinmann, Committee prepares a job description for the role required in who was appointed to the Committee with effect from light of the experience and capabilities of the Board and the 29 October 2007.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the requirements of the role.
Candidates are then assessed by Chief Executive and met ten times in 2007.
The Executive reference to that job description.
External search Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management consultancies are engaged by the Committee, as necessary, of the Group, the development of operational plans and to provide candidate lists in respect of Board appointments.
strategy, assessment of risk and the allocation of resource The Committee is also responsible for succession planning, where those matters are not reserved for the Board.
ensuring the continuity of the Board and ensuring that the Board comprises the appropriate skills and experience Audit Committee appropriate for running the Company.
The Audit Committee comprised Andrew Palmer Chairman, Lord Blackwell, Stephen Howard, Thom Wernink and Nigel The Remuneration Committee Rich, who resigned from the Committee with effect from The composition of the Remuneration Committee, its 14 May 2007.
Andrew Palmer, the Finance Director of a FTSE activities during 2007 and the way it applied the principles of 100 company is identified as having recent and relevant the Code are described in the Remuneration Report which financial experience as required by the Code.
The Committee can be found on pages 55 to 63. reviews the clarity and completeness of the disclosures made in the financial statements of the Company and considers Going Concern significant accounting policies, any changes to them and any After making enquires, at the date of this report, the Directors significant judgements and estimates.
The Committee also have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate considers the appointment, compensation, independence and resources to continue its operational existence for the performance of the external auditors.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
SEGRO plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2007 The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed Internal Control & Internal Audit 51. the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk The Board is responsible for monitoring and maintaining a management.
This review covered all material areas of the robust and effective internal controls framework across the business including financial, operational and compliance Group and for identifying, evaluating and managing the controls and risk management.
Groups significant risks, in compliance with principle C. 2 of the Code and the revised guidance on internal control issued In performing its review of effectiveness, the Audit Committee by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
This took into account the following reports and activities: framework and system has been developed in compliance with the Turnbull guidance and is continuously reviewed by internal audit reports on reviews of business processes the Board, who confirm that it has been in place throughout and activities, including action plans to address any the year and to the date of this report.
The framework and identified control weaknesses: internal controls system are designed to manage but not to eliminate the risk of failure of the Group to meet its business managements own assessments of the strengths and objectives and as such only provide reasonable but not weaknesses of the overall control environment in their absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
area, and the action plans to address the weaknesses: The key features of the internal control framework include: external auditor reports on any recommendations for improvements in controls or processes identified in the the establishment of an organisational structure with course of their work, including the follow-up of previous clearly defined levels of authority and division of recommendations: and responsibilities: risk management reporting, including the status of a comprehensive system of reporting, budgeting and actions to mitigate major risks.
planning against which performance is monitored: The Board and the Audit Committee monitor managements the formulation of policies and of approval procedures in action plans designed to address weaknesses in internal a number of key areas such as treasury operations, controls which have been identified as a result of the above capital expenditures and environmental matters.
The Board confirms that it has not been advised are reviewed from time to time by the Board to confirm of any failings or weaknesses which it regards to be their adequacy and effective operation: significant.
the provision of a code of conduct for employees and the Relations with Shareholders monitoring of the quality of personnel through an annual The Chief Executive and Directors are the Companys principal performance appraisal process: spokesmen with investors, fund managers, the press and other interested parties.
The Chairman and Senior a regular and ongoing risk assessment process, Independent Non-Executive Director are available to undertaken at both Group and subsidiary levels which shareholders, together or separately, should they have includes identification and evaluation of the likelihood of concerns which contact through the usual channels has failed key risks materialising and assessment of the controls to resolve or is otherwise inappropriate.
The Board is kept and other processes in place to manage such risks: informed as to the detail of any such discussions with a Group Risk Committee, with the responsibility to shareholders.
oversee the identification, assessment and management There are regular meetings with institutional shareholders of all the risks faced by the Group: held by the Chief Executive and Finance Director which are an internal audit function, with a risk-based programme reported to the Board.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director make themselves of work aimed at improving processes and the controls: and available for meetings with institutional shareholders and should these occur, the discussions will be reported to an annual control self-assessment and certification the Board.
exercise whereby managers throughout the business carry out an assessment of the controls in their area of Constructive Use of the AGM responsibility and certify whether such controls have At the AGM shareholders and investors are given the been operating effectively throughout the year.
opportunity to question the Board and to meet with them afterwards.
They are encouraged to participate in the During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the Meeting.
arrangements put in place whereby employees may raise, in confidence, any concerns which they may have in respect of The Chief Executive gives a presentation to shareholders at the financial reporting or other matters and the arrangements for AGM on the performance of the Company.
the independent investigation of those matters.
Photographic displays and literature are available to illustrate the Companys developments.
com Directors Report The Directors submit their annual report together with the Subject to authorisation at the AGM to be held on 20 May 52. audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 which 2008, the final PID, in respect of 2007, will be payable on 23 were approved by the Board on 5 March 2008.
May 2008 and the record date will be 18 April 2008.
A property income distribution reinvestment plan was introduced in Business Review January 2008 which enables ordinary shareholders to invest The principal activities of the Group continued throughout their PIDs in the ordinary shares of the Company.
2007 to be commercial property development, construction and investment and the provision of services associated with Property Valuations such activities.
The Group also provided utility services prior The valuation of the Groups investment and development to the disposal of Slough Heat & Power.
properties which was carried out by external valuers as at 31 December 2007, amounted to 4,740.0 million, a The Business Review on pages 14 to 48, which is incorporated decrease of 876 million over last years 5,616.3 million.
into the Directors Report by reference, provides a fair review After taking into account expenditure on investment and of the business of the Company and the description of the development properties of 774 million, the book value principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company along of property disposals of 1,350 million, exchange gains with risk management and financial risk management of 45 million, the deficit transferred to revaluation reserve policies and the future developments the Company.
Business Review also contains details of the Companys health and safety policies and its corporate responsibility Further details concerning the valuation are set out in note 15 activities.
Results The property assets of Slough Heat & Power Ltd were excluded from the valuation.
The results for the year are set out in the Group income statement on page 65.
The Groups pre-tax profits were Directors 242.9 million as detailed on page 73 of the financial The present Directors who held office throughout the year are statements 2006: 690.1 million.
Loss after tax from named on pages 46 and 47. continuing operations amounted to 244.4 million 2006: profit 811.6.
After allowing for minority interests of 1.1 Lesley MacDonagh and Walter Hens were appointed as million, the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders was Directors on 1 January 2007.
Marshall Lees resigned from 74.9 million 2006: 916.5 million profit.
Basic earnings per the Board as at 1 August 2007, following the sale of the ordinary share excluding exceptional items and deferred tax US business.
amounted to 32.3 pence 2006: 25.1 pence and a loss of 16.4 pence 2006: 201.8 pence earnings including exceptional Details of Directors remuneration, pension rights, service items and deferred tax.
contracts and Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are included in the Remuneration Report on Adjusted diluted net assets per ordinary share excluding pages 55 to 63. deferred tax relating to investment properties reduced to 704 pence 2006: 775 pence.
The appointment and replacement of the Directors is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM and governed by the Post Balance Sheet Events Code, the Companies Acts and other prevailing legislation There were no post balance sheet events to the date of this and also by the Articles of Association, which are available on report.
Property Income Distribution and Ordinary Dividends In accordance with the Articles of Association, Lord On 1 January 2007 the Group assumed UK Real Investment Blackwell, Ian Coull, David Sleath and Thom Wernink will Trust REIT status.
Under the REIT regime SEGRO plc will, in stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Nomination the normal course of business, pay Property Income Committee has confirmed that the Directors subject to Distributions PIDs but may also make regular dividend re-election continue to perform effectively and have payments in addition to the payment of the PID.
Following the demonstrated commitment to their respective roles.
The disposal of the Groups US business the Company paid, on 31 Board, excluding the Directors subject to re-election, has August 2007, a special dividend of 53.0 pence per share to recommended those Directors for re-election.
Share Capital An interim PID of 8.3 pence per share was paid to Following the disposal of the US business in August 2007, shareholders on 5 October 2007. the share capital of the Company was consolidated on a 12 for 13 basis the nominal capital being re-denominated The Board recommends a final dividend of 14.7 pence per 1 from 25 pence per share to 27 12 pence per share and share in respect of the year ended 2007, giving a total approximately 250 million was returned to shareholders dividend for the year of 23.0 pence 2006: 19.0 pence.
by way of a special dividend.
Further details are provided in The total dividend comprises 14.0 pence paid as a PID and note 29 to the accounts.
9.0 pence paid as a regular dividend.
SEGRO plc Directors Report Annual Report 2007 At the 2007 AGM, shareholders gave the Company renewed and loan capital of the Company, are shown in the 53. authority to repurchase, in the market, ordinary shares Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 63. representing up to 10 per cent of the issued share capital at Save as disclosed in the Remuneration Report, no Director that time with such authority to expire at the 2008 AGM.
No had any holding or interest in the Companys shares or in any shares were repurchased in the year to 31 December 2007.
A of the Companys debenture or unsecured loan stocks, or resolution to renew this authority in respect of up to 10 per unsecured bonds and none of the Directors had any beneficial cent of the issued share capital will be proposed at the 2008 interest in the share or loan capital of any subsidiary of the AGM.
Under the proposed authority, shares repurchased may Company and no Director had a material interest in any be either cancelled or held in Treasury.
The Companys contract, transaction or arrangement with the Company, authorised and issued share capital as at 31 December 2007, or any of its subsidiaries at, or during the year ended, together with details of the share consolidation conducted in 31 December 2007.
August 2007 and shares issued during the year, is set out in note 29 to the accounts.
Provisions on Change of Control There are a number of agreements which take effect, The Company has one class of ordinary share.
Each ordinary alter or terminate upon a change of control, none of these share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the are considered significant in relation to the Company.
Company and all issued shares are fully paid.
The shares of The Companys share schemes contain provisions which the Company do not carry the right to a fixed income.
The take effect in the event of a change of control.
The provisions Articles of Association do not create any restrictions in in relation to share schemes do not entitle participants respect of the size of any particular holding, nor, in respect to a greater interest in the shares of the Company than of the transfer of shares.
The Directors are not aware of any that created by the initial grant or award under the agreements which limit the transfer of shares or curtail the relevant scheme.
voting rights attaching to those shares.
The Trustees of the Share Incentive Plan vote the shares held in trust for the Directors Indemnities purposes of the plan only upon the instruction of the Directors of the Company are entitled to be indemnified participants in the plan.
The Trustees of the executive share by the Company against any liability, loss or expenditure plans do not vote the shares.
As at the date of this report, incurred in connection with their duties, powers or office, 81 per cent of the authorised capital was issued.
As is the to the extent permitted by statute.
established practice, resolutions will be put to shareholders giving the authority to the Directors to allot the unissued The contracts of employment of the Directors and employees capital of the Company which amounts to 24 per cent of the of the Company do not provide for compensation for the loss issued capital, and within defined limits, to dis-apply preof office that occurs because of takeover.
emption rights in continuance of the Companys existing practice.
There exists no current intention to allot capital save Payment of Suppliers for purposes of the employee and executive share schemes It is the Companys and the Groups payment policy, in respect however, the Directors may consider allotting capital should of all suppliers, to settle agreed outstanding accounts in business opportunities become apparent that are consistent accordance with terms and conditions agreed with suppliers with the Companys strategic objectives.
when placing orders and suppliers are made aware of these payment conditions.
Payment becomes due when it can be Directors Interests in Share and Loan Capital confirmed that goods and or services have been provided in The Directors of the Company who were in office at accordance with relevant contractual conditions.
The Groups 31 December 2007 and the beneficial and non-beneficial trade creditors as a proportion of amounts invoiced by interests of these Directors and their families in the share Major Interests At 3 March 2008 the following major interests 3 per cent or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company had been notified to the Company: Direct Indirect Aggregate Shareholder Voting Rights Voting Rights Voting Rights Percentage The AXA Group and its subsidiaries 16,549,379 4,621,412 21,170,791 4.85 Legal & General Investment Management 18,806,556 1,919,596 20,726,152 4.75 Barclays plc 8,008,295 10,886,113 18,894,408 4.33 Cohen & Steers Inc 18,646,053 18,646,053 4.27 ABP Investments 17,043,599 17,043,599 3.91 M&G Investment Management 13,211,510 13,211,510 3.03 Issued capital at 3 March 2008 436,243,891 SEGRO.
com Directors Report suppliers represented 12 days at 31 December 2007 The Group is committed to following an equal opportunities 54.
The Directors do not consider that there policy throughout an employees career with the Company, is any one supplier or person with whom the Company from recruitment and selection, through training and has a contractual arrangement which is essential to development, promotion and retirement.
Disabled Employees Charitable, Political and Other Donations The Group welcomes applications for employment by disabled There were no political donations during the year and it is the persons.
These are always fully and fairly considered, bearing Groups policy not to make cash donations to political parties.
in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event However, the definition of political donations used in the of an employee becoming disabled every effort is made to Political Parties Election and Referendums Act 2000 is very ensure that their employment with the Group continues and broad and as a result could cover activities that form part of that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the the relationships between the Group and bodies with political Group that the training, career development and promotion of affiliations.
These activities are not designed to support any disabled persons should as far as possible be identical to that political party nor to influence public support for a particular of other employees.
Therefore, authority from shareholders will be sought Auditors to the Company at the AGM to ensure that the Group acts within the Deloitte and Touche LLP were appointed by the Board as provisions of the current UK law when carrying out its normal auditors to the Company following the resignation of business activities.
Deloitte and The charitable amounts given by the Company in 2007 were Touche LLP has expressed their willingness to act as auditors as follows: to the Company and accordingly, resolutions to formally appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the CharitableDonations 630,558 auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The main donations made were as follows:- Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval Slough Social Fund 363,188 of this report confirms that: Corporate Health benefit in kind 199,370 In kind support 68,000 so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Donations are made to a variety of community and social charities and in particular to charities connected to localities the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to in which the Group is represented.
Slough Social Fund is a have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself charity which provides financial support to local charities in aware of any relevant audit information and to establish the Slough and South Bucks area.
The benefit in kind that the Companys auditors are aware of that provided to Corporate Health includes the provision of a rentinformation.
free building which Corporate Health a registered charity uses to provide occupational health services to the Slough This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Trading Estate.
accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Environment and Corporate Responsibility The Groups environmental policy is published on the By order of the Board Companys website www.
We report on our environmental activities in more detail in the Business Review J R Probert pages 42 and 43.
We report on corporate responsibility Secretary matters including employees, health, safety and the 5 March 2008 environment both in this report and in our separate 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Employment Policy The Group recognises, values and promotes the involvement of its employees and strives to further honest two-way communication.
It looks to keep employees informed on areas affecting their employment, as well as the financial and economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the Groups all-employee share schemes.
The Group also encourages employee involvement in the development of the employment standards and policies which shape our culture and way of working.
SEGRO plc Remuneration Report Annual Report 2007 a five year period of joining the Group.
The Chief Executive is Unaudited information 55. encouraged to acquire and retain shares to the value of one The Remuneration Committee and a half times his annual salary within a five year period.
The Committee comprises only Independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Stephen Howard.
The members The Committee regularly reviews the remuneration policy to of the Committee are Lord Blackwell, Christopher Peacock ensure the Groups reward programmes remain competitive and Lesley MacDonagh.
Nigel Rich stepped down from the and provide appropriate incentive for performance.
The Committee with effect from 14 May 2007.
The Committee Committee takes into account institutional investor guidelines operates within written terms of reference which are available in relation to the operation of the performance conditions, the on the Companys website, www.
The role of the proportion of shares that vest and acceptable levels of dilution.
Committee is to set a remuneration policy which attracts and retains high-calibre senior executives and which aligns the Components of Executive Remuneration rewards of senior executives with the creation of long-term The remuneration packages for the Executive Directors shareholder value.
The Remuneration Report will be comprise the following elements which are all taken into submitted at the 2008 AGM for the approval of shareholders.
account by the Committee when setting remuneration.
The Committee has access to the advice and services of the Director of Human Resources Jennifer Titford and the Base salary Company Secretary John Probert.
The Chairman and Chief Executive can be invited to attend meetings except where Annual Incentive Plan bonus their remuneration is discussed.
The Committee may also Long-term share incentive engage independent remuneration consultants, at the Companys expense, as it deems appropriate.
The Committee Save as you earn met four times during the year.
Share Incentive Plan Advice Watson Wyatt LLP acted as advisor to the Committee for the Pension contributions duration of the year having been appointed, by the Committee, in 2006.
Watson Wyatt provided advice to the Committee on a Company car or company car allowance range of issues related to remuneration including executive remuneration, a proposed new long-term incentive plan and Other benefits e. g. health and life insurance changes to the operation of the Share Incentive Plan.
Watson The Committee considers that all elements of the package Wyatt provided advice to the Company in respect of matters relating to the remuneration of employees to ensure a are of equal importance in supporting the Groups remuneration policy.
An appropriate balance is maintained consistent approach to reward across the Group.
Lovells LLP, one of the Companys legal advisors, has provided advice to between fixed and performance-related remuneration and between elements linked to short-term financial performance the Committee on all-employee and executive share plans.
Lovells also acts for the Company and has provided legal advice and those linked to longer-term shareholder value creation see illustrative charts below.
Base salary is the only to the Company during the year on a range of other matters including advice on corporate, employment, litigation, real component of remuneration that is pensionable.
The charts indicate the target level of long-term incentives as a proportion estate, tax and pension issues.
Hewitt Bacon and Woodrow Ltd, which was appointed by the Company, provided information to of executives' total remuneration.
the Committee in respect of pension related matters.
Chief Executive Remuneration Policy and Framework In order to align the interests of the Executive Directors and shareholders, the Committee sets the remuneration policy Base Salary Long-term 44% and framework such that a large proportion of remuneration incentive is performance related.
The performance related elements of 30% remuneration are constituted of both short and long-term reward mechanisms which are designed to align executive reward with the delivery of long-term shareholder value.
Annual Incentive Plan The Committee considers that the targets it sets in relation 26% to performance based pay are stretching and the Committee will, in accordance with the remuneration framework, only Other Executive Directors make bonus or share awards in line with strict performance criteria as applicable.
In setting the performance targets, the Base Salary Committee also takes into consideration the maximum Long-term 51% incentive amount of remuneration the Directors could receive should 25% all targets be met.
Executive Directors and other senior Executives are Annual encouraged to acquire and retain ordinary shares in the Incentive Plan Company to the value of one times their annual salary within 24% SEGRO.
