Membership of the Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Committee The key policy objective of the Committee is to secure and retain high calibre executive Directors John Emly Chairman of the Committee and management with the skills, experience and John Manser remuneration motivation necessary to direct and manage the Alastair MacDonald affairs of the Group so as to maximise shareholder Gordon McQueen value on a sustainable basis.
Employees receive report The Committee has been chaired throughout the the same range of benefits as Directors outlined year by John Emly the Senior Independent below.
The Committee aims to align its Director.
The Committee is comprised solely of remuneration policies with the Groups medium This Report, which has been independent non-executive Directors with the and long term strategy.
This is achieved by a prepared in accordance with the exception of the Groups Chairman, John combination of: Manser, who was appointed as a member of the Companies Act 1985 as amended by - a basic salary package, which recognises Committee with effect from 1 November 2006. the Directors Remuneration Report the responsibilities of individual Directors This follows a recommendation made by the Regulations 2002, outlines the and reflects salary and benefit levels of Financial Reporting Council and changes to the comparable positions in the real estate sector: membership and workings of the Combined Code in June 2006 which permits the Chairman of a company, where he is deemed Remuneration Committee the - an Annual Bonus Scheme, which provides independent on appointment as Chairman, to be rewards which reflect the performance of Committee and provides an a member of the Remuneration Committee.
the Group and the contribution of individual explanation of the components of Directors in a particular year and which The Committee met twice during the year ended the Groups remuneration policy encourages participants to invest annual 30 September 2007 to consider the employment together with details of Directors bonuses in the Companys shares: terms and remuneration of executive Directors remuneration in respect of the year and the Groups employees.
The Committee also - long term incentives which incentivise reviews the fees of the Groups Chairman.
A executives to deliver sustained improvement Proposals in respect of matters relating to the resolution to approve this Report in financial performance and shareholder Directors and Chairmans remuneration are returns: and will be proposed at the forthcoming submitted to the Board for approval before Annual General Meeting.
- a pension contribution, which funds implementation.
Whilst the Chief Executive may retirement benefits.
at the invitation of the Chairman attend Committee meetings, the other executive The Auditors are required to report to shareholders In determining the components of total Directors do not attend.
No Director has any regarding Directors remuneration, descriptions remuneration, the Committee seeks to involvement in decisions regarding his own of the Groups Long Term Incentive Arrangements incentivise Directors and staff, placing remuneration.
and Sharesave Scheme and the information emphasis on rewards for performance and contained in Tables 1, 2 and 3 in this Report delivery of shareholder value and recognises New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC the audited parts and to state whether, in that under-performance should not be has provided independent external advice their opinion, these parts of the Report have rewarded.
The performance related elements throughout the year to assist the Committee in been properly prepared in accordance with the of annual bonus and long term incentives can formulating its recommendations to the Board to Companies Act 1985. constitute a substantial proportion of the implement the remuneration policy.
NBSC is The Board considers that the Group has complied overall remuneration package where the appointed by the Committee and only provides throughout the year with the requirements of challenging performance targets set by the advice to the Group in respect of Directors the Combined Code in relation to Directors Committee are met.
The Committee undertakes an annual review The Committees recommendations during of the share incentive schemes operated by the the period from 1 October 2006 to the date of Group to ensure that they remain appropriate this Report regarding Directors remuneration to the Groups circumstances and overall have been accepted by the Board without remuneration policy.
50 Annual AnnualReport Report2007 2007 Fees payable to non-executive Directors are Terms of Employment Long Term Incentive Arrangements det ermined by the Board and are reviewed The executive Directors are employed under The Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by periodically, with advice from NBSC.
Fees are service contracts which may be terminated by shareholders at the 2006 Annual General within the limits set by the Articles of either party giving not less than twelve months Meeting.
Under the Plan all employees are Association and are intended to reflect the time notice.
In the case of Jonathan Lane and Brian eligible to participate, with the conditional award commitment and responsibilities of individual Bickell, a maximum of twelve months salary and of shares granted to employees at the discretion non-executive Directors roles and are set at benefits would be payable by the Group in the of the Remuneration Committee.
All awards are broadly market median levels to ensure event of termination without notice although the subject to performance conditions set by the individuals of the necessary calibre and Board would seek to reduce the amount payable Committee each year.
Awards to executive experience are recruited and retained.
The fees by enforcing a Directors duty to mitigate his Directors and all employees are limited to 150% payable to the Chairman are set by the loss.
In the case of Simon Quayle and Thomas of salary per annum in normal circumstances.
Committee with advice from NBSC and ratified Welton, their contracts can be terminated by the Within this limit, the maximum percentage of by the Board.
The Chairman is absent for the Group paying a sum equal to their basic annual salary will vary according to the employees discussion regarding his fees and takes no part salaries.
The Group has no other financial position in the Group and in particular to the in the discussion.
obligations in the event of early termination extent to which each employee is capable of of an executive Directors contract.
Fees payable to the Chairman were set at the influencing corporate performance.
time of his appointment as Chairman on 1 Executive Directors are permitted to accept There are two separate performance conditions October 2004.
Fees payable to other nonexternal appointments with the prior approval of for the vesting of awards, each applying to one executive Directors in respect of the year ended the Board and where there is no impact on their half of the shares awarded.
The conditions apply 30 September 2007 were set in November 2005. role with the Group.
Any fees arising from such to the awards made in previous and current Fees were reviewed in November 2007 and new appointments may be retained by the executive financial years as the Committee believes the fee levels became effective from 1 December Director where the appointment is unrelated to conditions are still appropriate to the Group.
2007 and will be reviewed after two years.
Fees from external - The performance condition attached to one appointments are disclosed in this Report.
half of an award will require average annual The terms of appointment of non-executive net asset value NAV growth of between RPI Annual Bonus Scheme Directors are documented in letters of plus 3% to RPI plus 7% per annum over three The Group operates an Annual Bonus Scheme appointment between the Group and the financial years for between 30% and 100% of under which executive Directors and staff may Director.
Their term of appointment does this part of the award to vest i. e. between 15% receive a bonus based on the achievement of a not extend beyond the date on which they and 50% of the total award.
range of challenging personal and corporate are next subject to re-election by shareholders.
performance targets set annually by the - The performance condition attached to the If re-elected at the 2008 Annual General Committee and intended to stretch the other half will require total shareholder return Meeting, John Manser and Alastair MacDonald individuals performance.
These annual targets, TSR performance against the FTSE 350 will receive new letters of appointment.
which are consistent with the Groups key Real Estate Index to match or exceed it by up business objective of long term growth of its net to 5.5% per annum over three financial years asset value, focus on the attainment of key for between 20% and 100% of this part of the Salaries, Benefits and management and business objectives.
They award to vest i. e. between 10% and 50% of the Non-Executive Directors Fees relate to those operational and financial aspects total award.
For the purposes of calculating of managing the Groups portfolio which are TSR, share price plus dividends reinvested will The Committees policy is broadly to align considered to be critical to maximising and be averaged over the three months prior to the salaries with comparable companies in the real realising its long term income and capital value start and end of the performance period.
The salary for each executive potential.
Director is reviewed annually in November Awards will vest on a straight line basis between against market information provided by the In setting these targets and assessing actual minimum and maximum thresholds.
Committees independent advisor and taking into performance, the factors the Committee takes The Committee believes that these are the most account the individuals performance and into account include the Groups financial and experience in their role and salary increases of appropriate measures of performance to deliver non-financial key performance indicators and its enhanced shareholder value.
corporate responsibility policies and goals.
The benefits provided to each executive Director Performance against targets will be reviewed by A participant may elect to receive all or part of are a fully expensed car or a car allowance in the Groups auditors and the Committee prior to the annual bonus in the form of Ordinary Shares lieu, life assurance including widows pension, vesting.
The value of the bonus is reduced by health insurance and long term disability 20% for that part taken in cash rather than Following the establishment of the 2006 Long insurance.
The Group makes a pension shares.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, Term Incentive Plan, no further awards of shares contribution of 25% of basic salary into the maximum bonus limit is 125% of salary if have been made under the 2001 Discretionary a personal pension plan in respect of each the entire bonus is taken in shares or 100% of Share Option Scheme.
Details of outstanding executive Director.
Beyond this the Group has salary if taken entirely in cash.
awards are set out in Table 2. no further obligation in respect of funding Where a participant elects shares, they are Directors pensions.
An executive Director awarded under a Deferred Annual Share Bonus may elect to receive elements of his benefit Sharesave Scheme Scheme, which allows participants to exercise entitlement in cash, although the cash The Group operates an Inland Revenue approved their right to entitlement after a minimum equivalent is reduced by any resultant Sharesave Scheme for all employees, including period of two years and no later than seven taxation liability borne by the Company.
executive Directors, subject to a qualifying years following the date of the award.
Sharesave allows employees to dividend is payable on these shares whilst they save each month over a three, five or seven year are held in the Scheme.
This award is not period up to a maximum of 250 per month.
At subject to any further performance conditions as the end of the period, employees may use their the award relates to the deferred element of a savings, plus a tax free bonus, to buy Ordinary bonus which has already been earned.
Shares in the Company at a 20% discount to the Annual bonuses are not pensionable and are not market price prevailing shortly before they contractual.
The Committee is satisfied that the commenced saving.
bonus limit is competitive with peer companies and is not excessive.
The levels of bonuses awarded in respect of the year ended 30 September 2007 reflect the substantial achievement of individual and corporate targets set by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
All the executive Directors have elected to take their 2007 Annual Bonus entirely in shares.
Chairman and other non-executive Directors P J Manser J R K Emly A W MacDonald W G McQueen Total 000 000 000 000 000 Fees 60 36 36 36 168 2006 60 36 36 36 168 Review of Salaries and Fees Executive Directors basic annual salaries were revised with effect from 1 December 2007 to the following levels: 000 J S Lane 370 B Bickell 260 S J Quayle 255 T J C Welton 245 Non-executive Directors fees were revised with effect from 1 December 2007 to the following levels: 000 P J Manser Chairman 85 J R K Emly 45 A W MacDonald 45 W G McQueen 45 52 AnnualReport2007 Directors remuneration report
