Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2007 Remuneration Committee The Committee schedules three meetings during each year but The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee the also holds additional meetings as and when material matters arise Committee the approval of the remuneration and employment terms for discussion.
During the last financial year, the Committee met on of the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives.
Only Committee members are entitled to attend meetings of the The Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors, all of whom are Committee as of right, although the Group CEO, the Director of Human considered to be independent, and its membership during the year was Resources Joe McCollum, the Human Resources executive charged as follows: with supporting the Committee Carol Separovich as Vice President, Rewards Management, together with the Company Secretary in his Committee Chairman and Members capacity as Committee Secretary and the Committees adviser from Sly Bailey Senior Independent Director became Committee Chairman New Bridge Street Consultants LLP are generally invited to attend so on 1 February 2007 as to assist and advise the Committee on matters under consideration.
John Gildersleeve Non-executive Chairman since 12 January 2007 Other executives may be invited to attend in respect of specific issues ceased to be Committee Chairman on 1 February 2007 where their guidance may be of assistance to the Committee.
None of Kevin Carton Non-executive Director the attendees participated in any discussion relating to his or her own Peter Georgescu Non-executive Director remuneration.
David Londoner Non-executive Director Kathleen ODonovan Non-executive Director until her retirement on In monitoring the level and mix of remuneration packages, the Committee 20 November 2006 has access to a number of music and general industry remuneration surveys, covering both local and international data.
The Committee Terms of reference takes into account factors such as the nature, size, complexity and The key terms of reference of the Committee are as follows: international profile of the surveyed companies relative to EMI: it also seeks such specific advice from external consultants as it considers to provide the policy framework for the remuneration of the appropriate.
Chairman, the Executive Directors and other senior executive and operational management currently approximately 80 individuals Policy statement on Directors remuneration in total : Background The Committee recognises that, as a UK-listed company, EMI should subject to the policy framework and the Code, to review in detail comply with the highest standards of corporate governance and, and approve all aspects of the terms and conditions of wherever it is appropriate to do so having regard to the wider interests employment of each Executive Director, including their incentive of shareholders, UK remuneration best practices.
Accordingly, the arrangements, pension rights and any compensation payments.
Committee periodically reviews the Groups remuneration practices In addition, the Committee is responsible for setting the terms against such standards and practices while recognising that the and conditions of appointment of the Chairman: achievement of success in the highly competitive worldwide music market depends critically upon the Groups ability to compete for to review and approve the base pay and the main elements of the management talent necessary to secure, develop and promote compensation of any senior executives whose proposed terms successful recording artists, composers and songwriters.
The Groups of employment include certain provisions, as from time to time remuneration policies, therefore, will continue to reflect the need to specified by the Committee, including bonuses, incentive attract, retain and motivate top-calibre international management in arrangements, pension rights and any compensation payments: the context of remuneration levels and practices in the international music and entertainment industry, many of which are set in the US, to determine targets for any performance-related incentive the indigenous repertoire of which, in the year ended 31 March 2007, arrangements operated by the Company: amounted to 35.5% of worldwide sales.
to ensure the effective administration of any other long-term or The Groups remuneration policies also recognise that the music share-based remuneration arrangements for employees: publishing and recorded music businesses operate in distinct marketplaces.
The level and form of remuneration will continue to be tailored to ensure that regulations and codes on the disclosure of to the different market-places in which the Group competes and to remuneration are adhered to by the Group: and, recognise the importance of creative talent to the overall success of the Group.
to review major changes in Group employee benefit structures.
The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors have been The Committee is also authorised, where necessary, to obtain external designed to help them attain, and encourage them to retain, long-term independent professional advice.
interests in EMIs shares, and thereby align their interests with those of shareholders.
Performance-related elements, in the form of annual The full terms of reference of the Committee can be obtained on request bonuses and share-based long-term incentives, represent a significant from the Company Secretary and are set out on the Companys website proportion of the total annual remuneration opportunity, typically at www.
providing at least two thirds of potential remuneration for the achievement of stretching performance targets.
Attendance at meetings and advisers During the year, the Committee continued to use New Bridge Street Overview Consultants LLP which it has appointed as its adviser.
This firm has During the year, the Committee reviewed the policy under the Groups provided material advice to the Committee to assist it in developing Executive Share Incentive Plan ESIP and annual bonus plan, to ensure and monitoring policies for remunerating senior employees throughout that they remain appropriate in the context of the Groups key business the Group.
The major areas for advice were Executive Directors objectives.
No changes to the general policy reported in the Annual remuneration, determining competitive levels and forms of pay Reports for the last three years have been made and the basis on which for Executive Directors and senior executives, reviewing incentive the Executive Directors will participate in these plans for the current year arrangements for that group, reviewing all share-based and long-term remains the same as described in last years Remuneration Report.
incentive plans and advising the Committee of developments and best The Group believes pay should be closely linked to performance.
practices for remuneration and applicable corporate governance requirements.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP has not, during the year, provided any other services to the Group.
The letter of appointment in respect of New Bridge Street Consultants LLP can be viewed on the Groups website, www.
com, or obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
44 Base salary In the case of Roger Faxon, reflecting his role as a divisional CEO, Base salary levels are determined by the Committee having regard to the the performance conditions for share awards will again be a mix experience and performance of the individual executive, the performance of Group and divisional performance.
Over a three-year grant of the Group as a whole over the preceding year, data regarding external programme from 2006 to 2008, the split between Group-level, as salary levels for comparable positions, internal relativities and wage opposed to divisional-level, targets will be approximately 70:30. inflation elsewhere in the Group.
The Committee seeks to ensure that, The Committee believes this split provides an appropriate focus in respect of industry-specific roles, base salaries are generally set on the overall Group results, thus ensuring alignment with no higher than the median for the music industry and, in the case of shareholders interests whilst also providing a focus on long-term non-operational roles, appropriate regard is given to general industry divisional performance and an alignment with key divisional data while also targeting the median level.
In order to align Directors executives.
The 70:30 split will be achieved as follows: interests with those of shareholders and to deliver competitive overall Mr Faxon received a performance share award over shares levels of pay, the balance of the overall remuneration is weighted more worth 200% of base salary in 2006 and will receive 150% of significantly towards long-term incentives than is the case with EMIs base salary in 2007 and 2008: and, major competitors.
his performance share award for 2006 vests as to three quarters by reference to a range of economic profit targets The base salary rates for each Executive Director on 1 April 2007 were relating to EMI Music Publishing i. e. taking into account the as follows: value of the investment in the business, whilst vesting of the remaining one quarter of the 2006 award will be by reference E L Nicoli 788,000 pa to Group TSR performance.
The awards for 2007 and 2008 R C Faxon US$1,700,000 pa will vest as to two thirds by reference to Group EPS growth M D Stewart 551,250 pa and as to one third by reference to Group TSR performance.
Salaries are revised annually with any increases generally taking effect Performance conditions will be measured over a fixed three-year period on 1 April for Mr Faxon, and 1 July for Mr Nicoli and Mr Stewart.
The UKwith no retesting opportunity.
based Executive Directors received increases of about 5% in 2006 which was consistent with the overall increase for other executives and The Group EPS growth test will measure EPS growth on an aggregate staff.
Mr Faxon received an increase in line with the provisions of his annual basis over the three-year performance period, i. e. the Companys employment agreement on becoming Chairman and sole CEO of actual EPS for each year of the three-year performance period will be EMI Music Publishing.
added together to arrive at an aggregate EPS performance.
For the threshold vesting condition to be achieved, aggregate EPS must exceed Annual bonus a target calculated by taking the EPS of the financial year immediately For the three Executive Directors, the maximum bonus opportunity is prior to grant the base EPS and adding together the three years EPS 100% of base salary with 50% of bonus payable at target performance that would be achieved on a cumulative aggregate growth of RPI plus with straight-line interpolation between the target and maximum points.
For full vesting to apply, aggregate EPS growth must exceed a target These bonus opportunities are paid in cash following the approval of the calculated by taking the base EPS and adding together the three years accounts for the relevant year.
EPS that would be achieved on a cumulative aggregate growth of RPI plus 7%.
This approach has been adopted so that all financial years in the The performance criteria are tailored to individual positions and to ensure performance period will be taken into account, reducing the volatility and that bonuses are appropriate in all the circumstances.
Subject to the rewarding sustained EPS performance.
Committees discretion and within the limits described above, bonuses for the year ending 31 March 2008 will be determined as follows: The EPS measure is diluted EPS adjusted to take account of items which are reported as Exceptional Items and Amortisation in the published for the Group CEO and the Group CFO, 65% of the bonus accounts of the Group.
opportunity will be determined by reference to Profit After Tax targets, with the balance by reference to pre-set strategic TSR is a measure of the return to a shareholder in terms of share price objectives.
These targets reflect a prime focus, at a Group level, appreciation, assuming reinvestment of any dividends over a fixed on profit growth, whilst maintaining an optimum cash flow: and, period.
25% of the shares subject to an award will vest if the Companys TSR, relative to the companies in the FTSE 250 Index excluding for the Chairman and CEO EMI Music Publishing, the annual investment trusts as at the date of award, is at least at the median of bonus will be based on pre-set targets relating to the divisions that group.
This will increase, on a straight-line basis, to full vesting if the Companys TSR is at least at the upper quintile i. e. within the highest economic profit i. e. taking into account the value of the 20% of that group.
The share price used for calculating both the opening investment in the business from year to year, reflecting EMI Music and closing TSR of the Company and each company in the comparator Publishings objective of achieving sustained profit growth group for the three-year period will be assessed using three-month while providing an adequate return on invested assets.
In addition to satisfying the TSR performance condition, awards will only vest to the extent that the Committee considers that the Details of the bonuses achieved during the year by individual Executive Companys TSR performance reflects the underlying performance of the Directors are set out on page 50.
Long-term incentive arrangements The EPS growth targets were chosen because profit growth as Under the terms of the ESIP approved by shareholders in 2003, regular measured through EPS is currently considered to be the most annual awards of both share options and or performance shares may be appropriate measure of financial performance.
The EPS growth condition granted each year.
aligns with the first of the Groups key performance indicators KPIs described in the Operating and Financial Review.
The TSR condition is For the current year, ESIP awards to Executive Directors will be made on included to align the interests of Group executives with the interests of the following basis: the shareholders.
Eric Nicoli and Martin Stewart will be granted performance share awards over shares worth 167% of salary.
Awards will vest as to two thirds by reference to Group earnings per share EPS growth and as to the remaining one third by reference to Group total shareholder return TSR performance.
45 Remuneration report continued Pension arrangements The FTSE 250 Index was chosen as the TSR comparator group as there For the UK-based Executive Directors, the current policy is to provide have been no, or insufficient, similarly sized independently quoted music pension benefits through a final salary arrangement with an accrual rate companies to provide a more bespoke comparator group.
All the current UK-based Executive Directors are subject to therefore, felt appropriate to compare the performance of EMI with the the earnings cap 108,600 in 2006 07 within the final salary scheme constituents of the FTSE 250 Index on the basis that, from an investor and separate cash pension allowances have been in place with regard perspective, shareholders have the choice of investing in EMI as to pension benefits relating to base salary in excess of the earnings cap.
compared with other UK-quoted companies of a similar size.
Benefits are calculated in relation to base salaries only and specifically exclude bonuses.
From 1 November 2005, the final salary scheme was In all the circumstances, the Committee considers these two Group closed to new entrants, including Executive Directors, and a new defined measures i. e. Group EPS and Group TSR, taken together, to be the contribution plan was established for future pension benefits.
Under most appropriate method of assessing the success of EMI over the the new policy, any new Executive Directors joining the defined medium term and, accordingly, views them as appropriate performance contribution plan will, in normal circumstances, receive annual conditions.
The Committee reviews these targets each year, prior to Company contributions to the plan of 40% of their base salary and awards being made, to determine whether they remain appropriate.
the Executive Directors will be required to make annual contributions of 5% of their base salary as a member contribution.
For Roger Faxon, as Chairman and CEO EMI Music Publishing, the economic profit approach has been a key performance measure in the For the US-based Chairman and CEO EMI Music Publishing, pension division and the target range has been designed to stretch growth contributions are made with respect to base salary only.
significantly ahead of historic norms.
Revenue growth and operating margin are shown as the KPIs for EMI Music Publishing in the Operating Response to Finance Act 2004 New Pension Regime and Financial Review because their achievement is considered to be the In response to the new pension regime which came into effect on principal driver in the overall performance of that division.
The economic 6 April 2006, the Company revised its pension arrangements to ensure profit approach adopted in setting the long-term performance target that UK executives can effectively manage the level of their pension takes both of those KPIs into account.
It also gives a weighting to balance benefits within the new Lifetime Allowance.
The new arrangements do sheet management which, while being important at the divisional level, is not involve additional costs for the Company.
In particular, the tax effect covered by the Operating Free Cash Conversion KPI at the Group level, as described in the Operating and Financial Review.
The fact that the of the new regime is borne by executives rather than by the Company.
majority of Roger Faxons incentive programme will be based on Group Specific details of the pension arrangements for Executive Directors after targets and all awards will be share based means that the package still 6 April 2006 are provided on pages 48 and 49. provides a very strong alignment with the interests of shareholders.
Directors service contracts The performance targets are considered to be both demanding and The Code recommends that notice or contract periods should be set at stretching over the medium term in light of the prevailing business one year or less.
It is the Groups policy to achieve that, where possible.
The Committee endorses the principle of mitigation of loss on early EMIs performance against the EPS and TSR targets will be monitored by termination of a service contract and recognises the advantage of the Committee, which will assess the extent to which the targets have service contracts including an explicit calculation, subject to mitigation, been achieved.
The EPS calculations will be confirmed by the Companys of compensation payable upon early termination, other than for external auditor while the TSR calculations will be undertaken by New misconduct or in other circumstances justifying summary termination.
The Committees policy is that such compensation should generally be calculated by reference to base salary, annual bonus at target level and The Committee also confirms that the Company has at all times complied other benefits, including pension contributions, for the notice period or with the share dilution limits as previously agreed with shareholders.
unexpired term of the service contract.
The contract should also include an explicit obligation to mitigate and to offset earnings from alternative All UK-based Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Groupemployment undertaken during the notice period or unexpired term of wide ShareSave scheme on the same terms as other UK-based Group the contract against all or part of the compensation payment.
Shareholder consent was obtained at the 2004 AGM for the renewal of the ShareSave scheme and also to introduce another However, the Committee is conscious that fixed-term contracts of tax-approved all-employee plan, the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The three or more years are common for senior executives in the global operation of these plans will be at the discretion of the Committee, entertainment industry and such agreements often include no or only a although Executive Directors will be eligible to participate on the same limited obligation to mitigate.
The Committee, therefore, considers that it basis as other staff.
No awards under the SIP were made during the year.
is in the best interests of EMI and its shareholders to retain the flexibility to compete for top executive talent, where necessary, through the ability to Details of the awards granted to Executive Directors under the ESIP and offer contract terms in excess of one year.
However, as an alternative, ShareSave scheme are contained in the section on Current long-term the Committee may agree compensation payments calculated without incentive schemes on pages 51 and 52.
Details of share options and mitigation in order to limit contract terms or notice periods to one year.
other share awards granted in previous years in accordance with the schemes then applying and the performance criteria attaching to those Group CEO and Group CFO - Eric Nicoli and Martin Stewart grants are contained in the section on Closed long-term incentive The service contracts of Mr Nicoli and Mr Stewart, dated 11 April 2003 schemes on page 53. and 5 January 2005, respectively, are terminable by the Company on one years notice.
Benefits in kind Benefits and perquisites are based on general industry practice and typically include a car or car allowance together with life assurance, retirement, disability and healthcare plans.
Further details are set out on page 50.
46 In the case of gross misconduct or other circumstances justifying Non-executive Directors summary dismissal, the Company may terminate their service contracts Non-executive Directors do not participate in the Groups bonus scheme without payment of compensation.
Termination by the Company in other or long-term incentive plans and are not eligible for membership of any circumstances, without the required notice being given, entitles the of the Groups pension plans.
Their fees are payable wholly in cash.
departing executive to compensation, calculated on: In view of the greater responsibilities of Non-executive Directors under the Code and more recent legislation together with their strategic his then base annual salary currently 788,000 pa for Mr Nicoli contribution and increased time commitment, annual fees were and 551,250 pa for Mr Stewart for one year: plus, increased on 1 January 2006 to 55,000 pa.
These fees will next be reviewed on 1 January 2008.
John Gildersleeve, as Chairman of the the value of retirement benefits and either the continued enjoyment Company, receives a fee of 300,000 pa, which came into effect on of, or the value of, benefits in kind provided to him for one year the 12 January 2007.
Sly Bailey, as Senior Independent Director and accrued value of such retirement contributions and the benefits in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, receives an additional kind would have been 471,695 for Mr Nicoli and 229,405 for 15,000 pa with effect from 1 February 2007.
Kathleen ODonovan Mr Stewart had either one of them been dismissed on 31 March received an additional 15,000 pa for chairing the Audit Committee.
2007 : plus, Kevin Carton replaced Kathleen ODonovan as Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 June 2006 and receives an additional fee a sum in respect of lost annual bonus opportunity, being 50% of at the rate of 15,000 pa from that date.
No other additional fees are his maximum bonus for the period from the date of his departure payable for membership of Committees or otherwise.
to the end of the contractual notice period.
The Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment from the Their entitlement to such compensation is subject to both a duty to Company which are available for inspection at the Companys registered mitigate and, also, offset for any earnings which they derive from other office or on request and are also provided on the Companys website at employment during the unworked part of the notice period for which they www.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed for a have been compensated.
specified term of an initial period to the next AGM after appointment and, subject to election at that Meeting, for a further period ending at Chairman and CEO EMI Music Publishing - Roger Faxon the third AGM held thereafter.
Subsequent reappointment is subject to Mr Faxon was reappointed as a Director on 1 April 2006 and endorsement by the Board and to re-election by the shareholders.
Each became Chairman and sole CEO of EMI Music Publishing on 6 March Non-executive Directors date of appointment as a Director and his or 2007.
His employment agreement, which is effective as of 1 February her most recent date of re-election at an AGM is shown below: 2005, allows EMI to terminate the contract at any time on 30 days notice.
If termination is for cause as defined in the contract, no Date of Date of compensation is payable.
If termination is without cause or Mr Faxon appointment as a Date of last election terminates the agreement for good reason for example, breach by EMI, Non-executive letter of or re-election Director appointment at AGM he is entitled to compensation based on one years pay, as follows: J Gildersleeve 28.2.
04 continued payment of his base annual salary currently S Bailey 2.4.
05 continued provision of retirement benefits and the continued D J Londoner 13.5.
06 enjoyment of benefits in kind provided to him for one year the annual value of such retirement contributions and the benefits in John Gildersleeves appointment as Chairman is terminable by the kind would have been US$914,884 had he been dismissed on Company prior to the expiry of the specified term of his appointment 31 March 2007 : plus, on one years notice.
The appointments of the other Non-executive Directors may be terminated at any time or in the event that they are not a lump sum equal to his target annual bonus opportunity for the elected or re-elected by shareholders in accordance with the Companys next following financial year, being not less than 50% of his base Articles of Association and, on termination, a Non-executive Director is salary in effect immediately prior to termination.
entitled to any accrued but unpaid Directors fees, but not to any other compensation.
The Articles provide that a Director will retire, if so agreed, In the light of competitive music industry practice, and in recognition earlier than three years from the date of last reappointment and also, if of Mr Faxons agreement, when he was promoted to Group CFO on agreed, will not stand for re-election.
This ensures that the Company 2 February 2002, to reduce his basic contract term from two years to can, where appropriate, reappoint Non-executive Directors for periods one year, there is no obligation on him to mitigate, or to offset against which reflect corporate governance guidelines and that there will be the compensation payment any earnings from alternative employment consistency between the terms of appointment and the relevant during the year following termination.
However, the Companys obligation provisions of the Articles.
to continue to provide insurance benefits will cease to the extent that similar benefits are provided by another employer during the 12 months Total shareholder return performance graphs following termination.
Under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 which amended the Companies Act 1985, UK-listed companies are required Former Executive Director to include a graph indicating their TSR i. e. share price growth assuming On 11 January 2007, Alain Levy ceased to be employed as Chairman reinvestment of any dividends performance over the last five years and CEO of EMI Music and also ceased to be an Executive Director.
The relative to a recognised equity index.
Consistent with the approach table on page 50 relating to remuneration gives details of the payments adopted in previous years and in the absence of suitable comparators, made to him in connection with the termination of his employment, which the Committee has again elected to show EMIs performance relative to reflects his contractual entitlements.
As explained in the tables, certain the FTSE 250 Index.
The FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts share awards and share options vested on termination of employment.
was the comparator group for the TSR performance condition for last All other contingent share awards have lapsed since the relevant years awards under the ESIP and will continue to be so for this and performance conditions have not been met.
subsequent years unless the Company re-enters the FTSE 100.
47 Remuneration report continued Total shareholder return Share ownership guidelines Source: Thompson Financial The Committee has adopted a formal policy that requires Executive Directors to hold shares in EMI worth at least two times their respective Value base salaries.
Executive Directors are required to build up this shareholding by retaining shares with a value of at least 25% of the 225 after-tax gain arising on the maturity of any long-term incentive awards.
200 175 Pensions 150 During the year, only Martin Stewart of the UK-based Executive Directors 125 was an executive member of the EMI Group Pension Fund the Fund, 100 Eric Nicoli and Alain Levy having chosen to opt out of the Fund at 75 31 March 2006 and, in lieu, receive cash allowances of 35% of the 50 pension cap a gross allowance of 38,010 for the year ended 31 March 25 2007 see page 49.
Executive membership of the Fund provides 0 Martin Stewart, on normal retirement at age 60, with a pension of 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 05 31 Mar 06 31 Mar 07 1 30th of the scheme-specific earnings cap for each year of membership, depending upon benefits built up prior to joining the EMI Group plc FTSE 250 Index Company.
In effect, he contributes 4% of the cap through a flexible benefits arrangement.
On death, there is a spouses pension of two thirds of his pension before the impact of any exchange of pension for a lump Additionally, the Committee is including the equivalent graph as against sum on retirement, plus child allowances if applicable.
An early retirement the FTSE All-Share Media Index as the Committee considers that it 1 3 pension may be paid on leaving but the pension is reduced by % for represents a more sector-specific benchmark.
This shows that the each month that pension starts earlier than age 60.
Subject to the Companys performance has been much closer to the sector than the Companys or, in the case of Executive Directors, the Committees market generally.
consent, the reduction applied may be less.
Total shareholder return Transfer values for all members of the Fund are calculated on a basis that Source: Thompson Financial assumes the pension would be drawn at the earliest date where no Value reduction would apply and with allowance for future pension increases both before and after pension commences to reflect the past practice of 125 granting discretionary increases, when appropriate, taking account of the financial position of the Fund.
100 Pensions in payment are subject to annual increases at the lower of the 75 increase in the RPI in the previous year and 5%.
As Eric Nicoli and Martin Stewart joined the Company after 5 April 1997, there is no Guaranteed 50 Minimum Pension GMP element included in their pensions.
The GMP is that part of the pension which replaces State Earnings-Related Pension.
25 0 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 05 31 Mar 06 31 Mar 07 EMI Group plc FTSE All-Share Media Sector Index The graphs above look at the value, at the end of March 2007, of 100 invested in EMI Group plc on 31 March 2002 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 and FTSE All-Share Media Sector Indices.
The other points plotted in the graphs are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Policy on outside appointments Executive Directors are permitted to take external appointments as non-executive directors but usually only one such appointment may be with another publicly quoted company.
The remuneration from such appointments is retained by the Director and the table below sets out such amounts for the year ended 31 March 2007.
All appointments must be approved by the Board to ensure that they do not give rise to any conflicts of interest.
Name Fees received of Company Directors: E L Nicoli The Tussauds Group Ltd resigned 21 May 2007 80,013 Vue Entertainment Investment Ltd 16,667 M D Stewart The London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Ltd 3,000 48 The table below sets out the transfer value at 31 March 2007 of each the period.
The transfer values are liabilities of the Fund and reflect both Executive Directors accrued deferred pension at that date at 11 January the age of the Executive Director and their length of service and 2007 for Alain Levy, as well as the movement in that transfer value over membership of the Fund.
Increase in Increase decrease Directors transfer value in accrued pension contributions over the year a b Age at Accrued pension during the year Transfer value of accrued pension during net of Directors a 31.3.
06 the year contributions Years pa pa pa pa Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 56 12,519 12,173 92 230,212 217,811 Nil 12,401 M D Stewart 43 7,843 4,107 3,588 64,682 31,425 4,344 28,913 Former Executive Director: c A M J I Levy 60 7,994 7,773 59 180,492 176,871 Nil 3,621 a The accrued pensions are the amounts which would be paid if the Director left service at the relevant date.
b The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance note GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
c Ceased to be a Director on 11 January 2007.
Up to 31 March 2006, Fund members joining the Fund after 1989, had These allowances are set at levels which, based on actuarial advice, are their pensionable salary for Fund purposes restricted to an earnings cap likely to deliver comparable benefits to the capped final salary element.
as defined in the Finance Act 1989.
The Finance Act 2004 removed the earnings cap.
However, in common with many pension schemes, a The table below sets out the contributions made to US money purchase scheme-specific cap was introduced to the Fund from April 2006 equal pension arrangements in respect of the US-based Executive Director to what the earnings cap would have been but for its removal.
At April who served during the year.
Contributions by Group Contributions by Director Total % US$ % US$ US$ In addition, reacting to other changes introduced by the Finance Act R C Faxon 54% of pay 828,180 6% of pay 91,495 919,675 2004, from April 2006 pension allowances were paid to current and now former Executive Directors see below in respect of salary above the pension cap, as follows: There were no retirement benefits paid to former Directors in excess of those to which they became entitled when such benefits first became E L Nicoli 55.60% payable to them.
A M J I Levy 50.00% M D Stewart 41.25% As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, those items from the Pensions heading on page 48 to page 53 inclusive have The total pension allowances paid for the year to 31 March 2007, which been subject to audit, with the exception of the Directors interests table are not included in Benefits in the table on page 50 are: on page 51.
By Order of the Board Executive Directors: Sly Bailey E L Nicoli 411,200 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a M D Stewart 179,903 and Senior Independent Director Former Executive Director: 18 May 2007 A M J I Levy 448,436 a In the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2006, the pension allowance for Mr Stewart was included in Benefits in the Remuneration details table.
49 Remuneration report continued Remuneration details a Annual remuneration Base Compensation 2007 2006 salary for loss of Incentive Total Total b c or fees employment Expenses Benefits remuneration in year in year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 778.6 60.5 839.1 1,536.0 R C Faxon reappointed 1.4.
b The nature of the non-cash benefits provided to Executive Directors who held office during the year was as follows: E L Nicoli: - a car allowance plus use of a Company pool car and driver: - private healthcare: and, - personal accident insurance.
R C Faxon: - a car allowance: - participation in the Groups US executive medical plan, life, health hospital, major medical and dental and accident insurance: and, - health club membership in New York.
A M J I Levy: - use of a Company pool car and driver: - private healthcare: and, - personal accident insurance.
M D Stewart: - a car allowance plus use of a Company pool car and driver: - private healthcare: and, - personal accident insurance.
c The economic profit achieved by EMI Music Publishing resulted in Mr Faxon achieving his maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of base salary.
Mr Stewart received a bonus equivalent to 35% of base salary out of a maximum of 100% of salary which reflects his performance against pre-set targets and his overall contribution in the face of challenging financial circumstances.
No bonus was payable to Mr Nicoli.
d As set out in last years remuneration report, Mr Levys Employment Agreement provided for him to be entitled, upon termination of his employment without cause as defined in the agreement, to a lump sum severance payment based on one years pay, calculated using i his base annual salary: plus ii the average annual bonus earned by him over the last three financial years.
This entitlement gave rise to a severance payment of 2,486,000 following termination of his employment on 11 January 2007.
In addition, Mr Levy is entitled to continue to receive for one year from termination the value of retirement benefits and benefits in kind provided to him under his employment agreement.
e Mr Levys Employment Agreement provided that, in the event of his termination without cause as defined in the agreement, he would be entitled to a bonus in respect of the financial year in which termination occurred, pro-rated down to the date of termination, with the bonus being based on the average bonus achieved in the prior three years.
This contractual entitlement resulted in a bonus payment to Mr Levy of 1,119,669 following termination of his employment on 11 January 2007.
Remuneration from prior-year share awards ceasing to be contingent 2007 2006 a a Awards Total value Awards Total value No.
of shares 000 Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 110,433 251,235 112,870 285,561 R C Faxon 232,237 528,339 M D Stewart Former Executive Directors: b M N Bandier retired 31.3.
07 Total 342,670 779,574 1,528,495 3,867,092 a The value is based on the share price on the date awards ceased to be contingent.
b This figure includes 165,625 shares in respect of a restricted share award totalling 662,500 shares.
Whilst in certain circumstances the restricted share award might have lapsed or been released before the vesting date, a proportion of its value was included in reported remuneration each year to match remuneration costs more accurately to the time period in which these shares were earned.
The full restricted share award vested on 31 March 2006.
50 Directors interests ab Directors interests all beneficial in the Companys Ordinary Shares of 14p each Non-contingent Directly held As at 31.3.
06 c share awards shares Total shares held Total shares held Executive Directors: fide E L Nicoli 66,260 442,983 509,243 134,992 d R C Faxon reappointed 1.4.
b As potential beneficiaries under the EMI Group General Employee Benefit Trust EBT, the Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the entire shareholding of the EBT which at 31 March 2007 amounted to 2,266,756 shares.
c Non-contingent share awards shown in this column are also included as incentive awards in the table on page 53.
Such awards, made under the now-closed Senior Executive Incentive Plan, arose from the deferral of annual cash bonuses into shares or the deferred receipt of a performance share award.
The awards are subject to an additional 1:3 matching award if deferred for three years, or an additional 2:3 matching award if deferred for six years.
d The totals of shares held by Mr Nicoli and Mr Faxon do not include matching awards of 44,173 and 72,134, respectively, relating to non-contingent incentive and performance share awards that vested on 31 March 2007 as the shares could not be transferred to them until after the end of the close period for Directors share dealings to which the Company will be subject until further notice.
e The interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company for Mr Nicoli and Mr Georgescu increased by 3,459 shares and 827 shares, respectively, on 2 April 2007 when they were allotted additional shares under the Companys Scrip Dividend Scheme.
Current long-term incentive schemes ab Directors outstanding performance share awards under the Executive Share Incentive Plan Date of Earliest normal Lapse As at Vested Awarded Lapsed As at award vesting date date 1.4.
09 619,747 619,747 d Total 619,747 619,747 a Exercise is subject to the performance target set out in the policy section of this report in respect of performance share awards for Messrs Nicoli, Faxon and Stewart.
In Mr Levys case, the performance target was the same as for Mr Nicoli and Mr Stewart, namely, awards will vest as to two thirds by reference to Group EPS growth and as to the remaining one third by reference to Group TSR performance.
b The rules of the ESIP originally provided that a participant was required to pay a nominal sum of 1 on the exercise of a share award, unless such sum was waived by the Remuneration Committee.
Since 31 March 2005, the Remuneration Committee has determined that, so as to ease the administration of such awards if and when they vest, the payment of this nominal amount should be waived or removed.
c The closing mid-market share price on the date of the award was 250.75p.
d The share awards made during the year ended 31 March 2007 and set out above were awarded in accordance with the policies set out in the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2006. e Ceased to be a Director on 11 January 2007.
51 Remuneration report continued Current long-term incentive schemes continued a Directors outstanding share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each under the Executive Share Incentive Plan Date Earliest normal Lapse Exercise As at Exercised Granted Lapsed As at granted exercise date date price 1.4.
16 255.830p 1,239,495 1,239,495 c e Total 1,239,495 1,239,495 a Exercise is subject to the performance target set out in the policy section of this report in respect of grants of share options, namely the Companys Earnings Per Share EPS growth over a fixed three-year period.
Mr Levy was granted options over shares worth 300% of base salary.
Three quarters of the grant of share options was to vest by reference to a range of targets relating to earnings growth before interest and tax for EMI Music with the balance vesting by reference to Group EPS.
b Ceased to be a Director on 11 January 2007. c The share option grants made during the year ended 31 March 2007 and set out above were granted in accordance with the policies set out in the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2006. d Lapsed on 28 July 2006 as the related performance conditions had not been met.
e Lapsed on 30 April 2007 as the related performance conditions had not been met when employment ceased.
Directors outstanding share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each under the ShareSave scheme a Date Earliest normal Lapse Exercise As at Exercised Granted Lapsed As at granted exercise date date price 1.4.
09 96p 16,588 16,588 b Total 16,588 16,588 a ShareSave options are normally exercisable for a six-month period following completion of savings under either a three-year or a five-year ShareSave contract and are not subject to additional performance conditions.
b Mr Levy ceased to be a Director on 11 January 2007.
As an early leaver, he exercised the portion of this option to which he was entitled on 3 April 2007 and received 11,328 shares.
The remaining balance of the option over 5,260 shares lapsed on that date.
52 Closed long-term incentive schemes Directors outstanding share awards under long-term incentive plans As at 1.4.
06 During year Date of Matching a b award Incentive Performance Restricted awards Vested Lapsed As at 31.3.
01 103,803 34,601 138,404 c Total 56,300 103,803 72,134 232,237 a Incentive share awards are not contingent on future performance and or are no longer subject to forfeiture.
Such awards, made under the now-closed Senior Executive Incentive Plan, arise from the deferral of annual cash bonuses into shares.
The awards are subject to an additional 1:3 matching award if deferred for three years from the date of the award, or an additional 2:3 award if deferred for six years from the date of the award.
b Shows total potential award which depends on the achievement of Group or business unit performance against profit targets set by the Remuneration Committee in respect of a performance period that terminated on 31 March in the third year after the date of the award.
The eventual award was subject to an additional 1:3 matching award if vesting was deferred for a further three years from the vesting date.
c The closing mid-market share prices on the dates of the awards 31 May 2001 and 15 June 2001 and vesting 31 March 2007 were 441p, 385p and 227.5p per share, respectively.
ab Directors outstanding share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each Earliest normal Date exercise Lapse Exercise As at Exercised Granted Lapsed As at cd granted date date price 1.4.
Therefore, the total gain made on the exercise of share options was nil 2006: nil.
The closing mid-market share price on 31 March 2007 was 227.5p.
The range of closing mid-market share prices during the year was 210.75p and 313.75p.
b All of the options were granted for nil consideration.
c Executive Directors share options are normally exercisable during the period commencing no earlier than three years and ending no later than ten years from the date granted.
d Share options were granted to Executive Directors in previous years in accordance with the relevant Executive Share Option Scheme rules and market practice at the time.
The table above sets out information on the current and former Executive Directors grants of such share options.
The performance criteria relating to these grants are as follows: For the period from 25 August 1995 to 9 December 1999, the criterion was that the Companys TSR over the relevant calculation period compared to the TSR of the companies in the FTSE 100 at 1 April prior to the date of grant is at least equal to the median of that group.
TSR is the percentage growth of the share price, assuming reinvestment of any dividends paid, over the calculation period.
The initial calculation period commences on 1 April immediately preceding the date of grant and ends on 31 March three years later and, thereafter, calculations are made at each quarter end for the preceding three-year period until the performance criterion is met or the option lapses.
For the period from 10 December 1999 to 8 July 2003 excluding Mr Levys grants see footnote f below, the criterion was that the increase in the Groups adjusted, fully diluted EPS over a three-year period following the date of grant should exceed an average of the UK retail prices index RPI plus a rate ranging between 2% and 3% pa.
The Committee chose the relevant performance criteria as they were considered to be challenging and in accordance with the then existing market practice, while aligning Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
e Ceased to be a Director on 11 January 2007. f As reported in previous years and summarised in this note below, Alain Levy had a one-off long-term incentive arrangement covering the period from October 2001 to 31 March 2006.
As part of the amendment to his service agreement, Mr Levy participated in the ESIP from 1 April 2006.
On appointment, Mr Levy was granted options over 10m shares at prices between 300p and 700p.
On 2 January and 19 December 2002, Mr Levy was granted additional options over 10m shares which represent his entitlement to options in respect of the five financial years up to and including, but ending on, 31 March 2006.
The exercise prices for these options were determined after the announcement of the interim results for the respective financial years, using a five-day average share price.
Exercise of all the options was generally conditional on the Companys adjusted diluted EPS growing by at least an average of RPI plus 2.5% pa over the period from 31 March 2002 to the 31 March following the relevant vesting date with retesting throughout the options life.
The terms of Mr Levys contract prescribed the impact of a cessation of employment or a change of control of EMI on the share options granted under his contract.
If Mr Levys appointment was terminated by EMI without cause or by Mr Levy with good reason as defined in the contract, the options over 10m shares granted on 15 October 2001 would vest and could be exercised without regard to the performance conditions.
As Mr Levys appointment was terminated on 11 January 2007 in the circumstances described in the preceding paragraph, the options granted on 15 October 2001, 2 January 2002 and 19 December 2002 vested and may be exercised without regard to the performance conditions.
The exercise of these options must be undertaken within 12 months of the date of termination.
On a change of control of EMI, Mr Levys options must be exercised within six months.
53 Financial contents Group financial statements 55 Group auditors report 56 Group consolidated income statement 57 Group consolidated balance sheet 58 Group consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 59 Group consolidated cash flow statement and note 60 Group accounting policies 64 Notes to the Group financial statements Company financial statements 88 Company auditors report 89 Company accounting policies 91 Company balance sheet 92 Notes to the Company financial statements Additional information 99 Group five year summary 100 Investor information 54
