Corporate Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee This Report to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2007 sets out the policies under which the Executive and Non-executive Directors are remunerated and tables of information showing details of the remuneration and share interests of the Directors.
As required by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations, this Report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM.
The Report is intended to be in full compliance with the requirements of the Regulations.
KPMG Audit Plc have audited the contents of the Report to the extent required by the Regulations pages 38 to 48.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy as applied to Filtronas senior executives, including Executive Directors.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee during the year consisted wholly of independent Non-executive Directors: Paul Drechsler Chairman Adrian Auer Lars Emilson appointed 1 May 2007 Warren Knowlton resigned 30 April 2007 The Company Secretary and General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
The Companys Chairman, Chief Executive and Director of Group Human Resources may, by invitation, attend the Remuneration Committee meetings, except when their own remuneration is discussed.
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year.
Advice During the year, Filtronas Director of Group Human Resources was invited by the Remuneration Committee to provide views and advice.
In addition, with the approval of the Remuneration Committee, the Company received services and advice from the following independent and expert consultants: New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC who provided advice on the Companys long-term share incentive plans and on the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other senior executives within the Company Mercers Human Resource Consulting Mercers who provided advice and information on pension matters Neither NBSC nor Mercers provides any other services to the Company except that Mercers provide actuarial services with respect to the UK pension schemes.
38 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
