Halma p. l. c. 2007 87 Report on remuneration The following sections of the Report on remuneration have been In accordance with rule 12.43A c of the Listing Rules of the audited: the table of Directors remuneration: pension benefits: Financial Services Authority the Board presents its Report on Directors interests in shares.
The Board confirms that when determining the remuneration policy for executive Directors for Remuneration Committee 2006 07 full consideration was given to the Combined Code The Remuneration Committee currently consists of the three appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
non-executive Directors, the members being Richard Stone Chairman of the Committee, Geoff Unwin and Stephen Pettit.
Basic salary and benefits During the year, Andrew Walker was also a member up to the Basic salary levels for each individual are determined with date of his resignation and Geoff Unwin rejoined the Committee reference to Watson Wyatt market survey data and other relevant following an amendment to the Combined Code.
No Director data in order to relate remuneration levels to comparable takes part in discussions concerning his own remuneration.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for assessing the performance of each senior executive taking The Committee, having taken external advice, makes account of the complexity of the operations under their control, recommendations to the Board on the framework for executive their opportunities for advancement within the Group, their remuneration, based on proposals formulated by the Group remuneration relative to other executives in the Group and their Chief Executive, and determines the terms of service and bonus earning potential.
He then formulates a remuneration remuneration of executive Directors and senior executives.
proposal for the Committees approval.
Basic salary levels are The Committees terms of reference, which are available from set around the market median, and the Committee ensures the Company Secretary on request, include: that a balance between fixed and variable remuneration is determining and agreeing with the Board the policy and achieved.
At targeted levels of growth, the bonus expectation framework for the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, is approximately 60% of salary.
the executive Directors, the Company Secretary and such other Remuneration of subsidiary boards is set at competitive levels members of the executive management as it is designated to reflect the size, complexity and geographic locations of to consider: the relevant businesses.
approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance related pay plans operated by the Company and Share plans agreeing the total annual payments made under such plans: The Directors have long believed that share plans are an excellent way to align the interests of senior management reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval with those of shareholders and that share plans provide by the Board and shareholders, and determining, each year, excellent motivation.
The Committee, recognising the need whether awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount of to continually assess and evaluate such incentives adopted such awards, the individual awards to executive Directors and a performance share plan following approval at the 2005 other senior executives and the performance targets to be set: annual general meeting.
determining the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements The Plan contains provisions permitting share option grants, for each executive Director and other senior executives.
restricted share awards and performance share awards.
The Committee also monitors and considers, with the Group Currently the Committee intend to use the Plan only to award Chief Executive, the framework of remuneration for subsidiary performance shares.
The first awards were made in August 2005. chief executives and directors and ensures a consistent Awards, which are made annually, are determined by evaluating approach is applied.
the financial and operational performance of the executive Directors and the Divisional Chief Executives and their attainment The Committee appointed Watson Wyatt to advise on various of certain personal goals.
The maximum award is fixed at 140% aspects of executive remuneration.
They also provided the of salary for executive Directors and 100% of salary for Divisional Company with limited additional advice, regarding the Chief Executives.
The expected level of award is 110% of salary UK defined benefit pension plan, during the year.
Awards vest after three years on a sliding scale, as set out below, subject to the Companys relative Remuneration policy TSR performance against the FTSE 250 excluding financial The policy on Directors remuneration is to provide remuneration companies current year awards, combined with a measure packages necessary to attract, retain and motivate Directors of based upon an absolute Return on total invested capital ROTIC.
the quality required to run the Group successfully, manage its Awards which do not vest on the third anniversary of their award businesses and align the interests of the Directors with those of lapse.
The performance share plan is also extended to certain the shareholders.
In determining such packages, the Committee centrally based executives and subsidiary chief executives with considers whether members of the executive management of maximum awards of 40% of salary.
the Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
The exercise criteria for these three plans are noted in note 23 to the accounts.
No further grants may be Keith Roy 169 169 15 15 368 339 made from the first two of these plans nor does the Company Andrew Walker 51 51 32 intend to make any further grants from the 1999 Plan now that the performance share plan has been approved by shareholders Stephen Pettit 36 36 29 2005 annual general meeting.
The granting of options was 1,218 784 150 159 2,311 1,927 spread over the life of the Plan.
Gains on The total dilution effect under these various discretionary share share options 247 34 plans is less than 5%.
Aggregate Performance related bonus scheme remuneration 2,558 1,961 This scheme, which applies to executive Directors and Divisional To date of resignation.
Chief Executives, is reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
There is no alternative The fees paid in relation to Geoff Unwin were paid to Gunwin bonus arrangement for Directors and Divisional Chief Executives.
Andrew Williams benefits include relocation expense During the year the Remuneration Committee carefully assessed reimbursement of 74,000.
Executive Directors received pension existing bonus arrangements and determined that incentive supplements to compensate them for the fact that their pension levels are appropriately set.
entitlement under the Halma Group Pension Plan defined benefit arrangements is limited by a pensionable salary cap introduced In the case of a Divisional Chief Executive a bonus is earned if from 6 April 2006.
The Company introduced a pensionable salary the profit of the Division for which he is responsible exceeds a cap in order to address changes affecting the Plan made in the target calculated from the profits of the three preceding financial Pension Act 2006.
Without the introduction of such a cap, there years.
The profits calculated for this purpose regard each would, effectively, have been no benefit limits.
This could have Division as a stand-alone group of companies charging it with resulted in benefits in excess of prescribed levels with some the cost of capital it utilises including the cost of acquisitions.
individuals suffering penal rates of tax and potentially causing For the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, a limitation on the tax deductibility of employer contributions.
bonuses are calculated as above but based on the aggregated The Company obtained external advice regarding the changes profit of the Divisions exceeding a target calculated from the to the Plan and executive pension arrangements and required profits of the Divisions for the three preceding financial years.
each affected executive to obtain independent advice prior to implementing the changes.
These changes reduce the Plans Since 2005 06, executive Directors and Divisional future liabilities and their associated funding risk.
Chief Executives may increase their cash bonus, subject to a 100% of salary cap, by either 10% of salary if the Return To the extent that an executives current salary exceeds the Plan on capital employed in their Division or aggregate thereof salary cap, the Company compensates him at an annual rate exceeds 45%, or by 15% of salary if accompanied by absolute of 26% of the excess.
As of 6 April 2006 Kevin Thompson chose profit growth in their Division or aggregate thereof.
to cease entirely future service accrual in the Halma Group Pension Plan in return for the pension supplement on his full salary.
Transitional provisions exist for divisional restructuring to ensure Divisional Chief Executives remain appropriately incentivised.
Andrew Williams was the highest paid Director in the financial year.
Subsidiary directors participate in bonus arrangements similar to those established for senior executives.
Halma p. l. c. 2007 89 Pension benefits Total shareholder return % Except as noted above and below, the executive Directors 250 participate in the appropriate section of the Halma Group Pension Plan.
This section is a funded final salary occupational 200 pension plan registered with HM Revenue & Customs, which provides a maximum pension of two-thirds of final pensionable 150 salary after 25 or more years service at normal pension age 60.
Up to 5 April 2006, final pensionable salary was the greatest 100 salary of the last three complete tax years immediately before retirement or leaving service.
From 6 April 2006, final pensionable 50 salary is capped at 7.5% of the Lifetime Allowance equating to 112,500 for the year ended 31 March 2007.
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Bonuses and other fluctuating emoluments and benefits in kind Halma FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment are not pensionable nor subject to the pension supplement.
FTSE 250 The Plan also provides for life cover of three times salary, Source: Datastream total return indices pensions in the event of early retirement through ill health and dependants pensions of one-half of the members prospective Total shareholder return pension.
Early retirement pensions, currently possible from age The graph above shows the Companys total shareholder return 50 with the consent of the Company and the Trustees of the performance over the five years to 31 March 2007 as compared Plan, are subject to actuarial reduction.
Pensions in payment to the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical increase by 3% per annum for service up to 5 April 1997, by Equipment sector indices, the latter of which the Company price inflation subject to a maximum of 5% through to 31 March has been a constituent since it was reclassified in June 2006.
Over the period indicated, the Companys total shareholder return was 166% compared to 218% for the FTSE 250 and 59% Details of the value of individual pension entitlements are for the FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment sector.
At the commencement of the five-year period depicted in the Accrued Accrued Years of pension Increase pension graph, the Halma p. l. c. ordinary share price was 164p and the Age at service at 2006 in the year 2007 total of dividends paid in the year ended 30 March 2002 was 31.3.
The Halma p. l. c. ordinary share price at Andrew Williams 39 12 26 330 31 March 2007 was 220.25p and the total of dividends paid in the year then ended was 6.97p per share.
Kevin Thompson 47 19 78 687 Neil Quinn 57 19 82 892 Directors interests in shares The beneficial interests of Directors and their families in the Keith Roy 56 14 47 654 ordinary shares of the Company during the financial year were as follows: The accrued pension shown is that which would be paid Shares Shares annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
06 The increase in accrued pension during the year is the amount Geoff Unwin 38,250 38,250 in excess of the increase due to inflation.
Andrew Williams 72,473 36,493 Increase in transfer Kevin Thompson 99,609 72,649 value Transfer Directors net of Transfer Neil Quinn 69,118 50,052 value contricontrivalue 1.4.
Keith Roy 754 10 102 866 There were no changes in Directors interests from 31 March 2007 to 19 June 2007.
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension plan.
These values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
90 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Report on remuneration continued Performance share plan The movements in performance share awards during the financial year were as follows: As at As at 1.4.
The awards in the year were based on the three-day average share price of 199p 2006: 148.42p on the date of grant.
The current expectation is that, on average, over 60% of these awards will vest at the end of the vesting period.
Share option plans The movements in share options during the financial year were as follows: 2007 2006 As at Share price As at Gains on Gains on 1.4.
The gains are calculated by deducting the exercise price from the closing middle market price at the date of exercise or the actual gross sales proceeds if appropriate.
The closing middle market price of the Companys ordinary shares on Friday, 30 March 2007, the last trading day preceding the financial year end, was 220.25p per share and the range during the year was 172p to 239.5p.
Details of Directors options outstanding at 31 March 2007 are set out in the table below.
The status of the options can be summarised as follows: 1 Exercisable at that date at a price less than 220.25p.
2 Not yet exercisable, will only be exercisable when the performance criteria, set out in note 23, have been met and have an exercise price per share of less than 220.25p.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Registered Office, contains full details of Directors shareholdings and share options.
Halma p. l. c. 2007 91 Service contracts It is the Companys policy that executive Directors have contracts with an indefinite term up to the normal retirement age of 60 and providing for a maximum of one years notice.
There are no exceptions to this policy.
None of the contracts has pre-determined compensation clauses in the event of early termination.
The Board and the Remuneration Committee confirm that these contracts are appropriate.
Non-executive Directors Unless otherwise indicated, all non-executive Directors have a specific three-year term of engagement which may be renewed for further three-year terms if both the Director and the Board agree.
The remuneration of the Chairman and the non-executive Directors is determined by the Board based on independent surveys of fees paid to the Chairman and the non-executive Directors of similar companies.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors receive a basic fee supplemented by additional fees for membership and or chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The contract in respect of Geoff Unwins services provides for termination, by either party, by giving not less than six months notice.
The fee for Geoff Unwins services for 2006 07 was set at 140,000 per annum.
In addition there is a contribution of 16,150 towards office costs.
The other non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
The Chairmans and the non-executive Directors fees were last reviewed by the Board in April 2006 at which time the revised fee levels were set for three years from 2006 07 as follows: Geoff Unwin appointed September 2002, Chairman 140,000 Richard Stone appointed January 2001, Senior Independent Director, Remuneration Committee Chairman and Audit Committee member 43,000 Stephen Pettit appointed September 2003, Audit Committee Chairman and Remuneration Committee member 40,000 From April 2007.
No fees are payable for membership of the Nomination Committee of which each of the above Directors is a member.
By order of the Board R A Stone, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Misbourne Court, Rectory Way, Amersham, Bucks HP7 0DE 19 June 2007
