Directors remuneration report This Directors remuneration report sets Foundation Plan, in particular the oneno personal fi financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters out information about the remuneration year performance period and the lack of the Directors of Galiform plc for the of any fi financial performance underpin to be decided.
During the year, the members of the Committee were: year ended 29 December 2007.
This to the stretching share price targets.
report has been prepared in accordance However, the Committee felt that the Michael Wemms appointed Chairman with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 2006 Foundation Plan had proved to 1985 and meets the relevant requirements be highly motivational and effective at of the Committee on 6 March 2007 retaining executives during this diffi cult of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We consider that and highly challenging period and Angus Cockburn therefore determined that a similar award we have complied with the disclosure recommendations contained in the: should be granted in 2007 but with a Ian Smith fi financial underpin.
The Committee also Directors Remuneration Report implemented new incentives, which Peter Wallis they believe will help retain and motivate Regulations 2002 executives over the next phase in the Additionally, the following people are Groups development.
no longer members of the Committee: Guidelines of the Association of British Insurers on Executive Remuneration The key changes in the year were: Lesley Knox retired as Chairman Policies and Practices issued December 2007 of the Committee and a member a new Profi t Share Plan was of the Board on 6 March 2007 2006 Combined Code implemented, which rewards executives with an annual cash bonus based on Tony fide Nunzio retired as a member As required by legislation, the a percentage of the profi ts achieved in of the Committee and a member of the fi financial year up to a maximum of the Board on 6 March 2007 information in Part B of this report has been audited by Deloitte & Touche 200% of salary.
The Profi t Share Plan replaces the Annual Incentive Plan Under its term of reference published in LLP as it contains the information upon which the auditors are required to report the Corporate Governance section of the a new Co-Investment Plan was Company website at www.
com to the Companys shareholders.
implemented following shareholder and reviewed on an annual basis the approval at the EGM in October 2007.
Committee is responsible for determining We have structured the remuneration report in the following way: The Co-Investment Plan is a longthe broad policy and specifi c remuneration term incentive plan that encourages packages for executive directors, the Summary of the key changes to executives to invest their own shares company secretary and other members and receive free matching shares of the executive committee, including executive remuneration in the year subject to achieving signifi cant pension rights and, where applicable, growth in profi ts and relative Total any compensation payments.
The Remuneration Committee Shareholder Return TSR over a three year period.
No awards under The Committee met fi five times during Remuneration policy for executive directors other share-based incentives will be 2007 and attendance of the Committee made to executive directors in the is shown in the table provided in the Components of executive same year that they participate in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Co-Investment Plan meetings covered the following key areas: directors remuneration the salary supplement for executive review of the external competitiveness Non-executive remuneration directors in lieu of pension in excess of of executives total reward package the earnings cap was increased from including salary increases Part B information subject to audit 15% of salary to 30% of salary.
This increase brings the current policy more review of entitlements under the 2006 Part A into line with competitive market practice Annual Incentive Plan Summary of key changes to executive remuneration in the year More details about these changes are review and agreement of the vesting summarised later in the report.
levels for the 2004 share awards under Following the sale of the MFI Retail business, 2007 was a crucial and the Performance Share Plan and the The Remuneration Committee 2006 Foundation Plan transitional year in the overall long-term recovery of the Group.
The Committee The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of independent review and agreement of pension recognised that some shareholders had concerns regarding the 2006 non-executive directors who have arrangements including salary GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 24 26 3 08 10:39:44 Galiform plc Annual Report 2007 supplements in lieu of pension of the Company and the creation of underlying profit performance over the shareholder value.
short-term provided to executive directors The Committee determines policy executives are encouraged to invest agreement of the structure and implementation of the new Profit for current and future years, which in shares in the Company and build is reviewed on an annual basis.
Their and maintain a shareholding of at least Share Plan and Co-Investment Plan including determination of the remuneration policy is: one times salary over a reasonable time frame appropriate quantum of awards and establishment of performance conditions the remuneration package should be simple and support the transition of Components of executive director review and agreement of executive Galiform to maturity while continuing remuneration to encourage an entrepreneurial culture The reward package that Galiform plc directors service contracts provides to its executives has a number where possible, there should be a of elements.
Base salaries and benefits review and agreement of the remuneration report to shareholders: common and consistent remuneration are determined with reference to policy throughout the business from the remuneration policy and through and the CEO down to the depot managers benchmarking against its chosen group of peer companies, of a similar industry, review and agreement of the Chairmans fees to position base salaries at the median size and complexity.
In order to align an level against companies of a similar individuals reward with the Companys The Committees Chairman ensures that size and complexity performance, annual bonuses and long-term incentives, are linked to the the Group maintains timely dialogue with its principal shareholders on executive upper quartile levels of total Companys strategy and determined remuneration should be available for by the levels of performance achieved remuneration.
truly superior performance with at least against stretching performance objectives.
two-thirds of the executive directors The Committee regularly consults with the Chief Executive on matters total reward being performance-related 1.
Base salary The Committees policy is to position base concerning remuneration, although he is never present when his own reward cash-based incentives that reward salary for each director at the median short-term performance are level compared to market practice.
The Company Chairman attends the Remuneration considered to be the most effective salaries are reviewed annually and are incentive but the overall reward policy determined by the Committee taking Committee by invitation except when his own remuneration is determined.
The should encourage executives to own into account the performance of the and invest in Galiform shares and drive individuals, changes in their responsibilities Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee but is never present longer-term performance and information from independent remuneration consultants on the levels when her own reward is determined.
The Committee appointed Pricewaterhouse over the next three years, profit of salary for similar jobs having regard to growth which is well understood the size of the Company its turnover, Coopers LLP PwC as independent advisers during the year and also by the management team and very market capitalisation and complexity.
much within their control and influence The Committee also takes into account received advice during the year from KPMG LLP KPMG.
PwC provided no will be the key performance driver the remuneration levels within the Group of shareholder value generally and the total remuneration of the other material services to the Company during the year.
KPMG provided other executives compared to the market.
the Companys strategic plans and material services in respect of employee tax and group structuring advice.
profit growth targets are achievable, The Committee recognises that given but still considered to be at the topchanges in the market capitalisation Remuneration policy for end of stretching performance of the Company over the last two years, salaries for the CEO and CFO are executive directors In determining the executive remuneration additional reward should be provided currently at the upper quartile of market for delivering superior relative TSR.
practice and therefore outside the stated policy, the Committee takes into account all factors which it deems necessary to TSR on its own is not considered to policy.
It is our intention to bring these ensure that the senior executives of the be an effective incentive measure.
salaries into line with the policy over Group are provided with appropriate However, it is recognised that time.
As a result it is envisaged that future incentives to encourage stronger relative TSR is aligned with superior salary increases will be below the market performance and are, in a fair and shareholder returns and may also help competitive level of increases for the time responsible manner, rewarded for their drive longer-term strategic decisions being subject to any changes to 25 individual contributions to the success that may not otherwise be reflected in an individuals role or responsibilities.
indd 25 26 3 08 10:39:44 THe business revieW HOW we govern the business Directors remuneration report continued The salary increases in 2007 and the There is no intention to use newly Share Option Plan Portfolio issued ordinary shares for the Deferred During 2007, an award of market value proposed increases for 2008 are below the level of the market for similar posts Incentive Plan.
options was granted under Part 3 of the Share Option Plan Portfolio.
Under Part 3 except in the case of Gerard Hughes and in line with increases received All bonuses are paid with the approval of the plan, the Committee has discretion of the Remuneration Committee: additional to grant Performance Options to executive by the wider Galiform workforce.
bonuses may also be paid in exceptional directors of up to four times salary subject circumstances, for example for recruitment to the achievement of demanding and Gerard Hughes was a new appointment to the Board in 2007 and therefore his or retention of key executives and or for challenging performance targets.
Bonuses are the year awards were made under the base salary in 2007 was set below the median market position to reflect this.
plan to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Commercial It was intended at the time to bring his salary in line with the median in 2008.
Foundation Plan 2007 Director and selected senior executives.
Incentive arrangements in 2007 of shares was granted under the The grant to each participant comprised Foundation Plan.
The participants in the an award of market value options with Annual Incentive and Deferred Incentive Plan Plan were the Chief Executive Officer, the an exercise price of 158.50p.
Vesting of Chief Financial Officer, the Commercial the share options is dependent on share Executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee were eligible Director and selected senior executives.
price performance over a three year The shares were subject to achieving vesting period.
For threshold vesting, the during 2007 to participate in the Annual Incentive Plan.
The Plan provides for stretching share price growth targets over average share price over 30 consecutive the financial year and vested shares must dealing days during the three year vesting a bonus opportunity of up to 100% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer be retained for a further two years.
period must be 185p for 20% of the options to vest: for maximum vesting the and 75% for the Chief Financial Officer and Commercial Director, if challenging The vesting of the restricted shares average share price over 30 consecutive awarded under the Foundation Plan dealing days during the three year vesting targets are met.
The financial target for achieving maximum bonus under in 2007 required the average share period must be 265p for 100% of the price over thirty consecutive dealing options awarded to vest.
Vesting is on a the Annual Incentive Plan 2007 was to achieve a Group profit target before days to be 150p for 20% of the shares straight line basis between these points.
awarded to vest and to be 185p for In addition to this share price target, exceptional items of 77.6m.
This target was exceeded during the year and 100% of the shares awarded to vest.
no options will become exercisable Vesting occurred on a straight-line basis unless the compound annual growth therefore all of the executive directors received maximum bonuses in the year.
In addition to this in the Group Operating Profit before share price target, no shares would vest exceptional items over the three year To align the executive directors interests unless the Group Operating Profit before period is at least 20%.
exceptional items for the 2007 financial with those of shareholders, one third of the annual incentive must be deferred year was 65m.
Incentive arrangements for 2008 In 2007, the Committee completed a into ordinary shares of the Company.
These were formerly deferred under the Group Operating Profit and share price strategic review of Galiforms remuneration performance over the year resulted in policy.
The outcome of this review Deferred Incentive Plan and held in trust for three years before release to the approximately 45% of the shares awarded resulted in the implementation of two being vested.
Shares must be held for new incentive plans.
These plans have executive director.
The Annual Incentive and Deferred Incentive Plan will no longer a further two years before participants been developed within the framework of can sell them.
Awards will no longer be the Companys remuneration policy and operate and will be replaced with the Profit Share Plan for 2008 onwards.
In granted under the Foundation Plan.
are intended to provide upper quartile 2008, any annual bonus for 2007 which levels of annual and long-term rewards has been deferred into shares will be linked to the achievement of stretching counted toward an executives investment performance conditions.
in the 2007 Co-Investment Plan award.
Executive 2007 Increase on 2008 Increase on director Salary prior year Salary prior year Matthew Ingle 525,000 5% 538,000 2.5% Mark Robson 345,000 4.5% 360,000 4.3% new appointment Gerard Hughes 225,000 to the Board 260,000 15.6% GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 26 26 3 08 10:39:45 Galiform plc Annual Report 2007 Profit Share Plan Share Option Plan portfolio Maximum investment The Profit Share Plan for executive The company operates a share option Executive per CIP award directors and senior executives is plan which has three sections.
Grants director number of shares a cash-based annual plan and will were last made to executive directors Matthew Ingle 650,000 replace the current Annual Incentive in 2007 as described earlier.
The first Mark Robson 520,000 awards for executive directors and senior Part 1 of the Share Option Plan is an Gerard Hughes 520,000 executives will be made in respect of Her Majestys Revenue & Customs the Groups Profit before tax PBT For the first award under the plan running HMRC approved Plan under which performance for the financial year ended until the end of the financial year ending 30,000 of options can be granted to 27 December 2008.
25 December 2010, the following any one individual participant.
Under performance targets have been set: Part 2 of the plan, the Committee Under the Profit Share Plan, executives has discretion to grant performance are rewarded with a fixed percentage Each invested share can be matched options to executives of up to two times of the PBT achieved in the year subject with up to three free matching salary subject to the achievement of to a minimum threshold level of profit shares subject to the achievement performance conditions.
Under the plan performance and the achievement of stretching PBT targets before rules awards may not be made under of Return on Assets in excess of the exceptional items Part 2 and Part 3 in any one year.
Companys weighted average cost PBT target number of of capital.
Performance Share Plan PSP year ending matching shares for No awards have been made to directors December 2010 each invested share under this plan since 2005.
Conditional The following table shows the 110m 0 first awards for the main board awards of shares equivalent to one 110m 0.75 years salary have previously been made executive directors: Straight-line to executive directors annually at the Bonus as a percentage of PBT vesting between discretion of the Committee and are Year end Executive these two points released subject to the achievement of Dec 2008 CEO director 135m 3 company performance targets.
Company 87.6m 0.60% 0.45% performance is measured over three years, 68.2m in terms of TSR relative to a comparator Each invested share can be additionally 87.6m 0.20% 0.15% matched with up to two free matching group of companies.
The comparator companies are selected on the basis 68.2m 0% 0% shares subject to Galiforms Total Shareholder Return TSR being at of relative sector, size and complexity before each performance award cycle.
Maximum Profit Share bonuses for any least upper quartile relative to the FTSE individual for the financial year ended 250 excluding investment trusts In addition, no award will vest unless the Earnings per share EPS of the Company 27 December 2008 will be capped at 200% of salary.
The Committee will have No matching shares in respect of the increases over the performance period by a percentage amount that is equal to or the discretion to determine the plan TSR element will vest for below upper targets for each award from year to year.
greater than the percentage change in the retail prices index RPI plus 9% over the Co-investment Plan CIP The matching shares under the two same period.
Under the CIP, participants are eligible performance measures vest independently to invest up to a predetermined number of each other.
The Committee have The number of shares released depends upon the Companys comparative of their own shares into the plan for a discretion to determine the performance period of three years.
In return for their targets for each award from year to year.
performance against its peer group.
If the Companys TSR is at the median level, commitment, each invested share can be matched with up to five additional 4.
Other existing incentive 40% of the shares, which are the subject of the award, will vest.
If the Company shares subject to the achievement of arrangements stretching performance targets over The following incentive plans discretionary is ranked in the top quartile of the list, 100% of the shares will vest.
Proportional the three year vesting period.
and all-employee are also at the Committees disposal.
However, at vesting on a straight-line basis will take place for performance between the It is intended that annual awards under present, the Committee does not envisage the CIP will be granted and executives granting awards under the discretionary median and the top quartile positions.
Full details of how TSR is calculated can invest up to their maximum plans to executive directors in the same investment for each award.
year that they participate in the Profit and measured and of the Companys performance relative to the peer group Share Plan and Co-Investment Plan.
27 for each award are shown on page 32.
indd 27 26 3 08 10:39:45 THe business revieW HOW we govern the business Directors remuneration report continued The comparator group for the 2005 savings up to a maximum of 250 per A pension supplement system operates concurrently with the Plan which award is as follows: month and at the end of the savings period participants may use all or part recognises that pension entitlement in Allliance Boots Carpetright respect of the CARE part of the Plan has of their savings and bonus to purchase DSG International Galiform shares at the option price which is set included maximum benefit restrictions the Home Retail Group Kingfisher Plan Cap which is currently 112,800 at the start of the savings plan.
The last invitation to participate in this plan was being based on the previously applied Marks and Earnings Cap.
In September 2006 this Spencer Matalan made in 2003 when employees were invited to save up to a maximum of 60 supplement was initially set at 15% of Travis Perkins WH Smith per month.
basic salary above the Plan Cap.
This Wolseley Woolworths supplement was later increased to 30% Pensions of basic salary above the Plan Cap fide-listed since the formation of these groups Executive directors can participate in to bring it into better alignment with the Galiform Pension Plan The Plan.
The PSP award granted in 2005 has not vested as a result of the performance The Plan is funded and HMRC approved.
With effect from the 1st September 2006 If a director chooses to opt out of target not being met.
the basis changed to a hybrid defined membership of the pension plan because benefit, occupational pension plan.
their total fund value from all their pension PwC are instructed by the Committee to monitor and report on the Companys Its main features are currently: sources exceeds the new Inland Revenue maximum fund value restrictions, then performance under the PSP and the new Co-Investment Plan with regards to TSR.
pension accrues on a Career Average the supplement payment will be 30% Revalued Earnings CARE Basis at the previously 26% of salary of total Basic FreeShare Plan rate of 1 50th of actual pensionable Salary.
The CEO had a fully funded pay in each year currently capped at pension position in 2006 and hence has The FreeShare Plan was introduced in 2002.
Executive directors may participate 112,800 : post-retirement increases chosen to opt out of membership of are linked to the increase in the retail the Plan and consequently receives this in the Plan on the same terms as all other eligible employees.
The plan is prices index with a maximum of 2.5% supplement.
The other executive directors continue to participate in the Plan.
Inland Revenue approved and is not subject to performance conditions other in addition to the defined benefit section the Company will match any Service contracts than continued employment.
Under the FreeShare Plan all eligible employees voluntary member contribution made In 2007 2008, the Company reviewed the to the defined contribution top-up executive service contracts.
All executive were invited to accept an allocation of up to 200 of the Companys shares in section to a maximum of 8% directors employment contracts have twelve months notice of termination on September 2002 and again in May 2003.
No further allocations have been made members contribute 8% of both sides.
In the event of termination pensionable pay to the CARE plan by the Company, there will be no since those dates.
compensation for loss of office due life assurance cover of six times to misconduct or resignation.
In other The shares are held in a Trust for a holding period being between three pensionable pay for those members circumstances, executive directors may with dependents and two times be entitled to receive compensation for and five years after which the award of shares will vest and participants for those without dependents loss of office which will be paid monthly for a maximum of twelve months.
Such may withdraw their shares.
pension payable in the event payments will be equivalent to the monthly of ill health salary and value of benefits that the ShareSave Plan Executive directors may participate in the executive would have received if still in spouses pension on death employment with the Company.
Executive ShareSave Plan, if offered, on the same terms as all other eligible employees.
in retirement of 2 3 of directors will be expected to mitigate their deceaseds pension loss if they contract to take on alternative At the discretion of the Board, the Plan is offered to all employees contracted employment within a twelve month period Pensionable pay is limited to the within their departure from the Company.
to work a minimum of eight hours per week.
The plan is HMRC approved and members basic salary.
All plan benefits are subject to HMRC limits.
under the Plan, participants make regular GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
