Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and to meet the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In particular, it describes how the Board has applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration set out in the Code.
The Companies Act 1985 requires the Auditors to report to the Companys shareholders on the audited information within this Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The Auditors opinion is set out on page 67 and those aspects of this Report which have been subject to audit have been clearly marked.
The Remuneration Committee, which met five times during the year and operates under clear written terms of reference available on the Companys website www.
com, confirms formally that throughout the year it has been in compliance with the governance rules and best practice provisions relating to remuneration as set out in section 1 of the Code.
Although the Company is required to report under the 2003 Code it has adopted the revised provisions of the 2006 Code early and, therefore, was technically in breach of the 2003 Code provision B.
2.1 as, since his appointment as Chairman, Mr I J G Napier has remained a member of the Remuneration Committee as permitted by the 2006 Code.
Remuneration Committee Membership The Remuneration Committee comprises five independent Non-Executive Directors together with the Chairman, Mr I J G Napier, who have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
The members of the Committee during the year were: x Dr P H Jungels chairman with effect from 2 January 2007 : x Mr M H C Herlihy with effect from 14 September 2007 : x Mr C F Knott: x Ms S E Murray: x Mr I J G Napier who stepped down as chairman of the Committee on 2 January 2007 upon his appointment as Chairman of the Company : and x Mr M D Williamson with effect from 14 September 2007.
Mr G Davis Chief Executive is, and prior to his retirement Mr D C Bonham Board Chairman was, invited to attend to respond to questions raised by the Committee.
Mr M R Phillips Company Secretary also attends meetings as secretary to the Committee.
They are, however, all specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of their own remuneration.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee sets the remuneration package for each Executive Director and member of the Chief Executives Committee after taking advice principally from external sources, including remuneration consultants Hewitts Limited and Towers Perrin, both of whom are engaged by the Committee as required.
Hewitts Limited also reviews the Groups remuneration principles and practices against corporate governance best practice.
Neither provides any other services for the Group.
Executive remuneration data provided by Towers Perrin and Boardex have also been used to assist in benchmarking processes ensuring the consistent application of the executive remuneration policy.
Mrs K A Turner Group Human Resources Director and Mr D P Cuthbert Group Compensation and Benefits Manager also provide internal support and advice to the Committee.
Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP have been retained by the Company to provide legal advice in respect of the Groups share plans and to provide services to the Committee as and when required.
The firm also provides other legal services to the Group as a whole.
The Company has appointed Alithos Limited to undertake Total Shareholder Return TSR calculations and provide advice on all TSR related matters.
Alithos Limited provides no other services for the Group.
 LLP, the Groups Auditors, certify Earnings Per Share EPS calculations used in the Groups share plans prior to awards vesting.
Responsibilities The Board is ultimately responsible for the framework and cost of executive remuneration but has delegated to the Remuneration Committee, within its terms of reference, responsibility for certain activities including the following: x determination of the remuneration levels and conditions of service for the Chairman, Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee: x oversight of the overall policy for senior management remuneration: x oversight of the Groups employee share and cash-based incentive plans including approval of minor rule amendments, invitations and awards and the allocation or issue of shares or payments under any such plans: and x approval of the form and content of the Directors Remuneration Report, prior to submission to the shareholders at the AGM.
48 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance During the year the most significant issues addressed by the Committee were: x review of standard executive service contracts inter alia to reflect the new age discrimination legislation: x review of the executive bonus scheme: x approval of amendments to the UK and Irish Sharesave Plans: x annual review of the operation, performance conditions, vesting schedules, comparator groups and grant levels of awards under the Groups share plans, to ensure that they remain appropriate in light of the Groups current performance and prospects and aligned with the strategy and objectives of the Group: x determination of bonus performance criteria and review of performance against the selected criteria prior to bonus payment: and x remuneration and contractual implications related to the resignation of Dr F A Rogerson.
The Committees approach is fully consistent with the Groups overall remuneration strategy and philosophy that all employees should be competitively rewarded to attract and retain their valued skills in the business, as well as supporting corporate strategy, by directly aligning executive management reward with the Groups strategic business goals.
Remuneration Strategy Imperial Tobacco Group PLC operates in a highly competitive, international environment.
For the Group to continue to compete successfully it is essential that the level of remuneration and benefits offered achieves the objectives of attracting, developing, retaining and motivating the necessary high quality pool of talented employees at all levels across the Group while ensuring that there is a clear link between reward and performance.
The Group, therefore, sets out to provide competitive remuneration to all its employees, appropriate to the business environment in the countries in which it operates.
The Remuneration Committee oversees the remuneration policy for all employees.
The Groups remuneration arrangements not only align with the Groups fundamental values of fairness, competitiveness and equity but also support the Groups corporate strategy, a significant contributor to its competitive advantage.
The Group continues to relocate employees internationally to facilitate their development, and thus enhance the Companys pool of talent, and to achieve the optimum balance of experience within the Group.
A cohesive reward structure across the Group is critical in ensuring that all employees can associate with, and strive for, the Groups strategic goals.
During the year this structure was consistently applied and communicated to ensure each element of the package is understood and the links to corporate performance recognised.
To assist in this communication senior employees were issued with total reward statements.
The Group strives to align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by giving employees the opportunity and encourages them to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Through a series of employee share plans the majority of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries have been offered participation in one or more equity-based plans, with in excess of 38 per cent of the eligible population participating in one or more of those plans.
Executive Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee.
The package is designed to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve a high level of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, while not being excessive.
Notwithstanding the Companys continued outperformance of the FTSE 100 as shown in the graph on page 58 the executive remuneration policy continues to be set to provide base salary at around the median level of the comparator group, as set out below, while providing the Executive Directors and Chief Executives Committee members with the capacity to earn upper quartile total compensation on achievement of superior business performance.
The executive remuneration policy combines short term and long term rewards focusing on, and significantly weighted towards, performance related elements that take into account individual, functional and corporate performance.
The main components are base salary, annual cash bonus, share matching scheme SMS, long term incentive plan LTIP and pension benefits.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to consider corporate performance of environmental, social and governance issues when setting remuneration for the Executive Directors.
com 49 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Percentage of Total Remuneration for the financial year to 30 September 2007 Salary Mr G Davis Bonus Pension Salary Mr R Dyrbus Supplement Benets Mr G L Blashill SMS Mr D Cresswell LTIP Dr F A Rogerson Mrs A J Cooper 0 102030405060708090 100 From the financial year ended September 2004, following a comprehensive remuneration review carried out during that year, more stringent performance criteria have been and continue to be applied to the performance-related elements, as detailed in the annual cash bonus and LTIP sections below and on pages 51 and 54, both of which form part of this policy statement.
In September 2007 the Remuneration Committee reviewed the executive remuneration policy including award policies, performance criteria, relevant comparator groups and vesting schedules.
Following the review of the bonus scheme detailed below the Committee is satisfied that these remain appropriate and support the strategy and objectives of the Group, including the creation of shareholder value.
It was, however, agreed that the constituents of the bespoke comparator group for the third element of the LTIP described below should be reviewed following the acquisition of Gallaher Group PLC by Japan Tobacco Inc and the Companys proposed acquisition of Altadis.
Key Elements of Directors Remuneration Package in the Financial Year to 30 September 2007 Element Objective Award level Performance criteria Performance period Base salary.
Reward high performing Median of FTSE 50 excluding N A. N A. employees reflecting market companies in the Financial and value of role and individuals Pharmaceutical sectors.
Annual cash Incentivise delivery of Maximum percentage of Adjusted EPS growth.
base salary: Chief Executive and Finance Director 100%, other Executive Directors 75%.
Share matching Incentivise delivery of improved May elect to invest some or all Adjusted EPS growth.
Group adjusted EPS and align of gross bonus in shares.
These with interests of shareholders.
Long term Incentivise long term delivery Percentage of base salary: 3 elements 3 years.
of TSR and EPS adjusted for Chief Executive 200%, Finance 50% adjusted EPS certain items and align with Director 150%, other Executive growth interests of shareholders.
25% TSR vs. FTSE 100 25% TSR vs. comparator group.
50 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance Base Salary Base salary is reviewed annually and is determined by the Remuneration Committee following detailed consideration of a number of factors including individual responsibilities, performance and external market data.
It is set within a range around the market median of the comparator group to reflect the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the relevant executive.
The comparator group of companies chosen remains the FTSE 50 excluding companies in the Financial and Pharmaceutical sectors.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
Annual Cash Bonus For the financial year ended 30 September 2007 the potential maximum bonus was 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors.
The targets for the year were all related to adjusted EPS growth, however, they are not disclosed as they are considered to be commercially confidential.
During the year the Company achieved adjusted EPS of 136.7 pence resulting in bonuses, as detailed in the table on page 53, being awarded to the Executive Directors.
These payments represented 96 per cent of base salary in respect of the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 72 per cent in respect of the other Executive Directors.
Cash bonuses were also earned by other senior management for achieving relevant performance targets for the financial year to 30 September 2007.
For the financial year ending 30 September 2008 onwards the Remuneration Committee has determined that the potential maximum bonus will increase to 125 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 100 per cent for other Executive Directors.
The performance criteria will be based on financial targets in respect of 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors.
The performance criteria for 25 per cent of base salary will be based on stringent, quantifiable strategic targets which will be set each year.
Any bonus earned up to 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors will be paid in cash and be eligible for investment into the Share Matching Scheme as detailed on page 59.
Any bonus payable in excess of this level will be paid in shares which the Director will be required to retain for a minimum of three years.
These shares will not be eligible for investment in the Share Matching Scheme.
In support of the Groups key performance indicators, as set out on page 13, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the financial performance criteria for the financial year ended 30 September 2008 will be based on Adjusted EPS and that the strategic targets will be based on measures including volume growth.
No element of the bonus is guaranteed.
com 51 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Emoluments for the Year Ended 30 September 2007 Audited 2007 2006 000 000 Executive Directors Salary 2,515 2,313 Benefits 93 85 Pension Salary Supplement 239 116 Bonus 2,140 1,341 1 LTIP annual vesting 2,866 1,788 2 SMS vesting 2,092 1,669 9,945 7,312 Non-Executive Directors Fees 660 700 Benefits 3 5 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 7 663 712 Former Executive Directors Salary of former Executive Director 96 Bonus of former Executive Director 68 Pension Salary Supplement of former Executive Director 16 Consultancy fees to former Executive Director 103 106 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 22 22 Contractual settlement of former Executive Director 702 1 LTIP vesting 360 2 SMS vesting 6 330 Benefits 4 315 1,520 Fees of former Non-Executive Directors Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 22 15 22 15 Total remuneration 10,945 9,559 Chief Executives Committee Salary 725 735 Benefits 25 28 Pension Salary Supplement 48 23 Bonus 487 448 1 LTIP annual vesting 469 322 2 SMS annual vesting 396 197 2,150 1,753 1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise.
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting.
2 Benefits in kind principally include the provision of a company car and health insurance.
3 LTIP, SMS and CSMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year on annual vesting, including the vesting of the Centenary Share Matching Scheme.
4 Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.
5 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007.
Dr F A Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when his employment will terminate.
6 Includes payment in respect of chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of 10,000.
7 Mr D C Bonham retired from the Board on 2 January 2007.
8 Mr C R Day resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007.
9 Messrs S P Duffy and S Huismans retired from the Board on 31 January 2006.
However, Mr S Huismans continues to receive fees in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group.
10 Mr D W Thursfield resigned from the Board on 28 October 2005.
11 Mr B C Davidson resigned from the Board on 9 February 2005 and subsequently left the Company on 30 April 2005.
Mr B C Davidson received payment in lieu of notice which was subject to his duty to mitigate.
12 Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but receives fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group.
13 No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances.
2 Or date of resignation if earlier.
3 Mrs A J Cooper and Messrs M H C Herlihy and M D Williamson were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.
4 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007.
5 Mr D C Bonham retired from the Board on 2 January 2007.
6 Mr C R Day resigned from the Board on 16 February 2007.
There have been no changes in these holdings since 30 September 2007.
Executive Share Retention To ensure the interests of management are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and senior management are required to meet minimum shareholding guidelines.
Over a period of five years from appointment they are required to build a holding in the Groups shares to a current minimum value broadly equivalent to three times base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and twice base salary in respect of the other Executive Directors.
Other senior management are expected to invest at a level equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade.
Failure to meet the minimum shareholding is taken into account when determining eligibility for future LTIP awards.
All Executive Directors currently exceed their required shareholding.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Annual awards are made under the LTIP to Executive Directors and other senior management.
These awards vest three years after grant, subject to the satisfaction of performance criteria over the relevant three year performance period.
All grants are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and no employee has a right to receive any such grant.
Awards granted prior to November 2005 were equivalent to 75 per cent of base salary for all Executive Directors and at a lower level for other senior management.
Following a comprehensive remuneration review in 2004, and subsequent shareholder approval at the 2005 AGM, awards made in November 2005 and November 2006 were equivalent to 200 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive, 150 per cent for the Finance Director and 100 per cent for the other Executive Directors with awards at a lower level for other senior management.
Current Structure From November 2005 the performance criteria for all awards were split into three elements as follows: First Element Fifty per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on average growth in adjusted Earnings Per Share based on an agreed protocol EPS, after adjusting for inflation over the period of the award.
At the Remuneration Committeess request the Auditors performed agreed upon procedures on the calculations.
12.5 per cent of this element i. e. 6.25 per cent of the total award vests if average annual EPS growth, after adjusting for UK inflation Real Annual EPS Growth, equals three per cent and 100 per cent of this element i. e. 50 per cent of the total award vests if Real Annual EPS Growth equals or exceeds ten per cent.
Between these two points this element vests on a straight-line basis.
54 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance Second Element Twenty five per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index as described below.
The performance criterion for this element is based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the relevant period.
No vesting of this element occurs unless the Companys TSR ranks it in the top 50 of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index.
At this performance threshold 30 per cent of this element i. e. 7.5 per cent of the total award vests.
If the return ranks the Company in the top 25 of the Index, this element i. e. 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
Between these thresholds this element vests on a straight-line basis.
Third Element Twenty five per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on TSR relative to a bespoke comparator group as described below.
The performance criterion for this element is also based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the relevant period.
No vesting of this element occurs unless the Companys TSR exceeds that of the bottom six companies constituting the comparator group comprising 12 tobacco and alcohol companies as detailed below.
At this performance threshold, 30 per cent of this element i. e. 7.5 per cent of the total award vests.
If the return ranks the Company in the top three of the comparator group, this element i. e. 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A S Diageo PLC Heineken N. V. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Interbrew S. A. Japan Tobacco Inc. Pernod Ricard S. A. Reynolds American Inc. SABMiller PLC Scottish & Newcastle PLC If one of the comparator group companies is acquired prior to the granting of an award a suitable replacement will be made.
For any corporate actions affecting a comparator group company during an award period the intention would be to mirror the actions of a passive investor, e. g. for an equity bid the new shares offered in exchange for the original company would be held for the remainder of the award period.
Following Japan Tobaccos acquisition of Gallaher Group PLC and the Companys proposed acquisition of Altadis, they have been replaced in the comparator group by Japan Tobacco Inc. and Heineken N. V. respectively.
The TSR calculations use share prices averaged over a period of three months to determine the initial and closing prices rather than those ruling on a single day.
It is assumed that the cash flow of dividend payments is recognised on the date the shares are declared ex-dividend.
This method is considered to give a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
All share prices and dividend flows are converted to sterling on the applicable date to ensure that the calculations reflect the return achievable by a UK based investor.
The TSR calculations themselves are performed independently by Alithos Limited.
Each element operates independently and is capable of vesting regardless of the Companys performance in respect of the other elements.
During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance criteria, award policy, comparator groups and vesting schedules for LTIP awards and decided that the three elements remain the most important measures that drive and measure sustainable improvement in shareholder value.
The TSR criteria reflect comparative performance against the appropriate FTSE sector and the bespoke comparator group of companies.
The EPS criterion reflects a key part of the Groups strategy to create sustainable shareholder value.
com 55 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Awards Outstanding Under the Historic Structure For awards granted between December 2000 and November 2004, EPS growth was the sole performance criterion.
This was seen as focusing on the financial performance of the business, over which Directors and senior management could exercise influence.
These awards vest on a sliding scale depending on average growth in basic EPS adjusted under the terms of the relevant protocol.
The EPS calculations are confirmed by the Auditors.
For awards granted between 2000 and 2002 no vesting occurred unless the Companys Real Annual EPS Growth was positive.
For awards granted in 2003 and 2004 no vesting occurs unless the Companys Real Annual EPS Growth exceeds three per cent.
Full vesting occurs if Real Annual EPS Growth is equal to or exceeds ten per cent.
Between these two points the award vests on a straight-line basis.
Vesting of awards On vesting a participant is granted an option to acquire the relevant number of shares.
The option may be exercised at any time up to the seventh anniversary of its date of grant.
There is no opportunity to re-test if any of the performance criteria are not achieved.
The Remuneration Committee has absolute discretion to vary, but not increase, the extent to which any awards vest.
This ensures that they only vest, and vest at an appropriate level, if there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company, including the maintenance of long term return on capital employed.
Under the LTIP Rules, in the event that Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is acquired the relevant performance period would come to an end on the date of acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro-rata basis, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
3 Mrs A J Cooper was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.
There have been no changes in any Directors awards since 30 September 2007. www.
com 57 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued During the year, the November 2003 November 2006 award vested in full.
Real Annual EPS Growth over the period averaged 10.2 per cent, exceeding the average ten per cent threshold at which the award maximised.
In respect of the November 2004 November 2007 award, based on EPS to the end of the financial year, 91.8 per cent of the award is expected to vest on 9 November 2007.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 26 October 2007, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was 24.25 valuing the awards as follows: Award vesting Award vesting Award lapsing No.
of shares over Illustrative value No.
of shares which option granted 000 Mr G Davis 3,499 39,014 946 Mr R Dyrbus 2,220 24,754 600 Mr G L Blashill 708 7,892 191 Mrs A J Cooper 805 8,968 217 Mr D Cresswell 1,593 17,758 431 The value of any awards vesting could vary significantly from that shown due to share price movements.
The Remuneration Committee regards the November 2005 November 2008 and the November 2006 November 2009 awards to be too distant from maturity to be included in the value projected above.
However, in respect of the 2005 2008 award, the first with the three part performance criteria, based upon interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2007 partial vesting of 73.5 per cent of the first element, 60.8 per cent of the second element and 53.3 per cent of the third element would occur if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance period.
In respect of the 2006 2009 award based upon interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2007 partial vesting of 88.1 per cent of the first element, 91.6 per cent of the second element and 30.0 per cent of the third element would occur if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance period.
The illustrative values based on the above share price and performance criteria are as follows: Potential awards vesting November 2008 November 2009 Illustrative value Illustrative value No.
Total return indices Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 300 Imperial Tobacco FTSE 100 200 100 0 30 Sep 02 30 Sep 03 30 Sep 04 30 Sep 05 29 Sep 06 28 Sep 07 The FTSE 100 Index is seen to provide the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking the corporate performance of the Company, which is a constituent of that index and reflects the benchmark index used as an LTIP performance criterion.
58 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance Share Matching Schemes SMS Annual Scheme Under the SMS the Remuneration Committee at its absolute discretion invites Executive Directors and the majority of the Groups management to invest any proportion of their gross bonus capped at 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares to be held by a nominee managed by the Employee Benefit Trust.
Provided that the shares lodged are left with the nominee for three years and the participant remains an employee in the Group, they will be matched on a one for one basis.
However, in respect of investments made by Executive Directors under the SMS from their bonus paid in December 2003 and for future years, a performance criterion is applied to the matched shares such that matching only occurs if the Group has achieved Real Average EPS Growth in excess of three per cent after adjusting for UK inflation over the three year retention period, being an indicator of sustained ongoing profit delivery.
Achievement measurement is based on the same protocol as that applying to the LTIP.
There is no opportunity to re-test if this performance criterion is not met.
In setting the performance criterion for SMS awards, the Remuneration Committee decided that EPS reflects a key part of the Groups strategy to create sustainable shareholder value.
Under the SMS Rules, should Imperial Tobacco Group PLC be acquired, the performance period would come to an end on the date of acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro-rata basis, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criterion.
Centenary Scheme To encourage employees to acquire and retain a shareholding, and to mark the centenary of the founding of The Imperial Tobacco Company of Great Britain and Ireland Limited, all employees of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries employed on 10 December 2001, the date of the centenary, were invited to purchase up to 3,000 worth of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares and lodge them with the Employee Benefit Trust or its nominee.
Subject to those shares being left with the EBT or its nominee and the participant remaining an employee within the group, the shares were matched on a one for one basis on 12 August 2007. www.
2 Or date of resignation, if earlier.
There have been no changes in any Directors contingent rights since 30 September 2007.
During January 2007, annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2003 and lodged under the SMS for a three year period matured, providing matched shares for participants on a one for one basis.
In respect of annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2006 and paid in December 2006, the Executive Directors elected, in February 2007, to invest their entire bonus in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares under the SMS.
These will be matched on a one for one basis provided they are left in the SMS for three years, the participant remains an employee in the Group and the Company has achieved in excess of three per cent Real Annual EPS Growth over the retention period.
This performance criterion and the award policy and vesting schedules were reviewed by the Committee during the year and deemed to remain appropriate.
These matching shares are shown within contingent rights arising above.
60 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance It is anticipated that, in February 2008, the Executive Directors will again invest their entire bonus earned in the financial year to 30 September 2007 in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares under the SMS.
Share Options The Company does not operate an executive share option scheme.
However, Executive Directors are eligible along with all employees of the Company and participating subsidiaries of the Group, where possible to participate in Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs savingsrelated Sharesave Plan.
Under this Plan options are granted, at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the closing mid-market price of an Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation, to participants who have contracted to save up to 250 per month over a period of three or five years.
3 Any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will expire.
4 Gains made on exercise, calculated as the difference between the exercise price and the market price on the date of exercise.
Aggregate gains during the year were 47,557 2006: 6,203.
5 Mrs A J Cooper was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.
6 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 27 June 2007.
There have been no changes in any Directors share options since 30 September 2007.
The Companys middle market share price at the close of business on 28 September 2007, being the last trading day of the financial year, was 22.41 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 17.64 to 23.30.
Full details of the Directors share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at the Companys registered office.
Award Dates It is the Groups policy to grant awards under all its employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.
com 61 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Employee Benefit Trusts The Imperial Tobacco Group Employee and Executive Benefit Trust the Executive Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust the 2001 Trust have been established to acquire ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise of share options and on the vesting of the SMS and LTIP awards.
Details of the shareholdings by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: Shares under Balance at Purchased Distributed Balance at Award at Surplus 1 10 2006 during year during year 30 9 2007 30 9 2007 Shortfall Executive Trust 905,542 366,238 277,167 994,613 925,417 69,169 1 1 2001 Trust 3,340,801 2,162,041 1,741,716 3,761,126 3,940,644 179,518 1 Includes 7,790 American Depositary Shares representing 15,580 ordinary shares.
As at 30 September 2007, the Company also held 51,717,000 shares in Treasury which may be used to satisfy options and awards under its share plans.
Share Plan Flow Rates The Companys policy has always been to satisfy all awards under its share plans from market purchased shares through the Trusts.
The Trust Deeds and the Rules of all plans contain provisions limiting awards to five per cent in five years and ten per cent in ten years for all employee share plans with an additional restriction to five per cent in ten years for executive plans.
Currently an aggregate total of only 0.7 per cent of the Companys issued share capital is subject to awards under all the Groups executive and all employee share plans.
In future the Trusts may also be provided with shares held by the Company in Treasury in order to satisfy vesting awards.
Since demerger in 1996 the cumulative awards under all of the Companys share plans totals 3.1 per cent of its issued share capital.
Following initial grants on demerger, subsequent annual grants have averaged 0.3 per cent of issued share capital.
Summary of Awards Granted Cumulative Awards granted as a percentage of Awards granted during the year as a percentage of Limit on awards issued share capital issued share capital 10% in 10 years 2.9 0.2 5% in 5 years 1.3 0.2 5% in 10 years executive schemes 1.4 0.1 Executive Directors Pensions Post 6 April 2006 A day the Groups UK pension policy, which applies to all current Executive Directors, provides the option to maintain membership of or join new employees the UK Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund or receive a salary supplement in lieu of membership of the Fund.
The Executive Directors are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, the principal defined benefit scheme operated by the Group.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.
The fund allows members to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age usually after 32 years service.
Pension commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted.
For death before retirement a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members expected pension at retirement.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pre-commutation pension is payable.
Dependent children will also receive allowances.
Pensions increase annually by the lesser of ten per cent and the increase in the Retail Prices Index, together with an option under the rules to surrender part of a pension in order for the annual increase to be in line with the increase in the Retail Prices Index to 15 per cent.
From 6 April 2006 a new tax regime was introduced by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC which abolished most of the detailed limits previously imposed on pension schemes and replaced them with a more simplified approach.
Each member now has a Lifetime Allowance LTA initially set at 1.5 million 1.6 million 2007 2008 and a tax, called the lifetime allowance charge, is levied at retirement if the value of their pension benefit from all sources exceeds this amount.
For any member whose total benefit value on 6 April 2006 exceeded the LTA, transitional arrangements allowed them to register the higher value so that they would not be subject to a large retrospective lifetime allowance charge.
To qualify for this enhanced protection the member was required to opt out of fund membership as regards future service accrual in order to retain a final salary linked pension entitlement in respect of past service.
All Executive Directors earn benefits on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60.
Other than Mrs A J Cooper, each of the current Executive Directors has opted out of fund membership as regards future service accrual as a result of registering for enhanced protection with HMRC.
The detailed HMRC rules governing enhanced protection mean that it may not be permissible in some rare circumstances for the full final salary linked pension based on service up to 6 April 2006 to be paid from the fund.
In this event an additional pension will be paid by the Company through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS so that the full accrued benefit may be provided.
62 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance Mr R Dyrbus is in receipt of a salary supplement of 35 per cent of salary, which is in lieu of future pensionable service accrual and arises because his accrued pension on 6 April 2006 was well below the maximum pension of two-thirds of salary.
Mrs A J Cooper is also in receipt of a salary supplement.
Prior to 6 April 2006 her pension benefits were limited by the effect of HMRC's earnings cap.
Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund did not disapply it in respect of past pensionable service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward.
For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable salary in excess of the Fund's earnings cap, the standard Fund benefit is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1 60ths with a 50 per cent spouse's pension and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable.
As an alternative to extra pension accrual on this top slice of salary through the UURBS, Mrs Cooper receives a salary supplement of 12 per cent of this amount.
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employers' National Insurance contributions.
The supplements are non-compensatory and non-pensionable.
Dr F A Rogerson opted out of fund membership as regards future service accrual as a result of registering for Enhanced Protection with HMRC from 6 April 2006.
Dr F A Rogerson is in receipt of a salary supplement in lieu of future pension service and accrual of 16.4 per cent of salary.
This amount is a non-pensionable payment.
The following table provides the information required by both the Listing Rules and schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and gives details for each Director of: the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he had left service at the year end any potential UURBS entitlement is included : the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for inflation in respect of the disclosure required under the Listing Rules: and the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the actuarial guidance note GN11.
None of the Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
Executive Directors Pension Disclosures Audited Disclosures required under Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Listing Rules Accrued pension 000 Transfer value of accrued pension 000 Increase in accrued Transfer pension net value of Increase Pensionable of inflation increase during the Age at service at Increase year net of during the net of 30 9 2007 year inflation 30 9 2007 At during the At At Directors Directors Years Years year At 30 9 2007 000 000 1 10 2006 30 9 2007 1 10 2006 contributions contribution Mr G Davis 57 35 520 37 557 8,924 1,137 10,061 14 246 Mr R Dyrbus 54 25 250 18 268 3,646 539 4,185 7 105 Mrs A J Cooper 41 8 28 9 37 216 92 9 317 8 67 2 Mr D Cresswell 62 44 237 16 253 4,829 30 4,799 6 132 1 Dr F A Rogerson 54 30 215 12 227 3,112 404 3,516 2 30 2 Mr G L Blashill 60 39 236 24 260 4,896 310 5,206 14 311 Former Directors 1 Dr F A Rogerson 54 30 3 230 59 3,575 4 59 1 Dr F A Rogerson resigned from the Board on 1 July 2007.
2 Mr Cresswell and Mr Blashill started to draw pension during the course of the year, including payment of a tax free cash lump sum as is permitted under the Fund rules.
The figures in the table above incorporate allowance for the benefits paid out in order to provide a relevant comparison with the start of year figures and have been calculated consistently with those disclosed at 30 September 2006.
A slightly different methodology is used to calculate transfer values for pensioner members and this methodology would give transfer values at 30 September 2007 of 5,161,000 for Mr Cresswell and 5,728,000 for Mr Blashill.
Other than including an allowance for the benefits drawn by Mr Cresswell and Mr Blashill during the year, the transfer values disclosed above do not represent the value of a potential liability of the pension scheme.
Benefits The principal taxable benefits for Executive Directors are the provision of company cars and health insurance.
Remuneration from other Non-Executive Directorships The Company recognises that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
Mr G Davis serves on the Board of Wolseley plc and received fees of 66,666. www.
com 63 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors Service Agreements The service agreements for Mr G Davis and Mr R Dyrbus were entered into at the time of the demerger of the Company from Hanson Group and the provisions dealing with compensation on termination following a change of control in their service agreements reflect that.
The service agreements for the other Executive Directors reflect the Companys established policy that Executive Directors have service agreements which are terminable on no more than one years notice and that there is no entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances.
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors service agreements, save as set out in the table below.
The Executive Directors service agreements do contain payment in lieu of notice provisions but these are at the Companys sole discretion.
The Group is unequivocally against rewards for failure and, save in the limited respects referred to above, the circumstances of the termination and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate loss are taken into account in every case.
The Groups policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and that any such payments should be paid monthly in arrears.
Under the Rules of the LTIP and SMS outstanding awards vest on termination for certain reasons, such as death, retirement, redundancy or on a change of control, on a time-related pro-rata basis subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria.
If, however, the termination of employment is for a reason other than one of those specified in the Rules an individuals full award lapses.
Executive Directors Service Agreements Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control Mr G Davis 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice.
Payment of a liquidated sum calculated by reference to benefits receivable during the notice period.
Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice.
Mr G L Blashill 28 October 2005 Terminable on 52 weeks notice.
Mr D Cresswell 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice.
1 Mrs A J Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 52 weeks notice.
1 Mrs A J Cooper was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.
Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole with regard to market practice and within the restrictions contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Board following recommendation from the Remuneration Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman do not take part in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
They receive no other material pay or benefits with the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with their directorship of the Company and provision of administrative support including the use of Company offices by the Chairman Mr D C Bonham until his retirement on 2 January 2007 and Vice Chairman Mr A G L Alexander, do not participate in the Companys share plans, bonus schemes or incentive plans and are not eligible for pension scheme membership.
To align further the interests of the Non-Executive Directors with those of shareholders, it was agreed that a proportion of their fees be applied, after statutory deductions, to purchase shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
These shares are to be held by a nominee during the term of each Non-Executive Directorship.
Exceptionally, in respect of Mr A G L Alexander and for Mr D C Bonham up to the date of his retirement, this requirement has been waived due to their continued level of investment, as detailed above.
Following his retirement from the Board in January 2006, Mr S Huismans remains a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma group for which he received additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company.
The terms of their appointments are reviewed annually.
These terms were reviewed for all Non-Executive Directors and confirmed on 29 January 2007.
The letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Companys registered office during normal business hours, and prior to and at the AGM.
Under the terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, Non-Executive Directors stand for election at the first AGM following appointment and are subject to triennial re-election by shareholders and retire subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 at the AGM following their reaching 70 years of age.
There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that the Non-Executive Director will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, no compensation is payable on termination.
The letters of appointment detail the time commitment expected of each NonExecutive Director.
The amendments to the Companys Articles of Association, to be proposed at the AGM in 2008, will remove the requirement for directors to retire on reaching 70 years of age, in accordance with the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006.
64 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance Although currently there is no maximum term of appointment for Non-Executive Directors, the Board is supportive of the best practice provisions contained in the Code.
However, where the Board considers a Non-Executive Director is making a particularly valuable contribution, they may be invited to remain on the Board in excess of nine years.
In such instances the length of tenure of the NonExecutive Director would be relevant to the Companys deliberations as to the independence of the Non-Executive Director and he she would also be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
It is proposed that Mr A G L Alexander, who has been on the Board since demerger in 1996, will retire from the Board at the 2008 AGM.
Remuneration Arrangements for Former Executive Directors Dr F A Rogerson Dr F A Rogerson resigned as a director on 27 June 2007 for personal and private reasons.
Under his contract of employment, Dr Rogerson was required to give 12 months notice to terminate his employment.
Dr Rogerson will complete a handover period and will be on compassionate leave until 27 June 2008, when his employment will terminate.
Dr Rogerson will receive a bonus in respect of the 2006 2007 bonus year, but he has been excluded from the 2007 2008 bonus scheme and will not receive any bonus payment in respect of that bonus year.
It has also been agreed with Dr Rogerson that his pension supplement will cease to be paid on 31 December 2007 and that no pension supplement will be paid for the remainder of his notice period.
The Remuneration Committee has agreed that the awards granted to Dr Rogerson under the Imperial Tobacco Group LTIP and the shares awarded to him under the Share Matching Scheme will vest, to the extent that the applicable performance conditions are satisfied, pro rata for the period up to 31 December 2007.
No compensation will be paid to Dr Rogerson in connection with the termination of his employment.
Mr S T Painter Following his retirement in May 2000, Mr S T Painter entered into a consultancy agreement with Imperial Tobacco Limited, the Groups principal operating company.
The agreement, as amended in October 2001 and May 2004, ran until March 2007.
Under the terms of the agreement he provided consultancy services as required and received fees at a day rate of 1,000 with a minimum fee based on 100 days service for each 12 month period ending on 30 June, and 67 days for the period 1 July 2006 to 6 March 2007.
Mr S T Painter is still providing consultancy services as required and receives fees at a day rate of 1,000.
However, there is now no minimum fee.
He is entitled to reimbursement for the use of his car.
Mr S T Painter is also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma group for which he receives additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Mr M A Hussler Mr M A Hussler is currently in receipt of a retirement pension that has been reduced because it has been taken before he reached his normal retirement age.
His service agreement with the Group provided that he would receive similar overall pension benefits to those that he would have received had he remained in the Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH pension arrangement.
This was a pension for life equivalent to 42 per cent of his fixed annual salary at age 63.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension for life of 60 per cent of that amount would be payable.
Prior to 1 April 2007 the pension was made up of three parts: one part of the pension payable from the unfunded pension arrangement of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, another part payable from the separately funded Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund and the difference, which was not separately pre-funded, was paid by the Company.
To simplify the administration of the pension arrangements from 1 April 2007, the Company augmented that part of the pension paid to Mr M A Hussler from the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund by the same amount that had been payable previously by the Company 12,072.48 per annum and terminated that part of the pension paid by the Company from that date.
The pension payable under the Reemtsma arrangement and from the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund may be increased annually in accordance with the Rules of those arrangements, or as required by law.
For the Board P H Jungels Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 31 October 2007 www.
com 65 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial Statements 67 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 68 Consolidated Income Statement 69 Consolidated Balance Sheet 70 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 71 Accounting Policies 76 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 78 Notes to the Financial Statements 111 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 112 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 113 Notes to the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 66 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
