Governance Remuneration report This Report to shareholders demonstrates how the principles To ensure that the Remuneration Committee receives of the Combined Code relating to Directors remuneration independent advice, Towers Perrin was appointed by the are applied.
Remuneration Committee as its external advisor.
Towers Perrin also provided advice to the Board on Non-executive Compliance Directors fees, and to the Group in connection with The Report complies with the Directors Remuneration Report International Financial Reporting Standard 2, Share-based Regulations 2002 and the relevant requirements of the FSA Payments.
It does not have any other connection with the Listing Rules.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Company other than as Remuneration Consultants.
Company has complied with the provisions regarding remuneration matters contained within the Combined Code.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee has been advised internally by the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, Remuneration committee the Group Human Resources Director and the General Counsel The Remuneration Committee operates under formal terms of and Group Company Secretary.
reference and under delegated responsibility from the Board.
These are reviewed annually to ensure that the Remuneration Neither the Chairman, nor any executive, is involved in deciding Committee remains up to date with best practices appropriate his her own remuneration.
These external and internal sources to the Companys strategy and the business environment in of advice and data available to the Remuneration Committee, which it operates.
together with consideration of the levels of pay increases for other employees and the remuneration policy outlined below, Its duties include: provide a framework for the decision making process.
x determining and agreeing the Companys policy and Remuneration policy framework for executive remuneration with the Board: The overriding objective of the remuneration policy is to reward x setting all elements of the remuneration of Executive Directors the achievement of corporate and individual goals by linking and for certain other senior executives: success in those areas to the Group strategy.
x determining the remuneration of the Chairman: and In establishing its remuneration policy and practice, the Remuneration Committee has regard to the need to continue x determining any other remuneration issues which affect to align with and support the Companys business strategy, to the interests of shareholders, in particular overseeing the allow the Company to attract, retain and motivate high calibre administration of the Companys share plans and the executive management whilst having regard to pay and provision of benefits and settlement for Executive Directors conditions throughout the Group.
The Remuneration Committee and certain other executives where these are stated as was also guided by the following principles: being at the discretion of the Board.
x the package should be competitive i. e. at or around The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available median when compared with those in organisations of on the Companys website.
similar size, complexity and type: The members of the Remuneration Committee during 2007 x there should be a clear link between the level of remuneration were Michael Wemms Chairman, Ken Hanna, Will Samuel, and the performance of the Group and the individual, to the Karen Guerra and David Scotland.
Throughout the year, the extent that performance-related elements should form a Remuneration Committee comprised wholly Independent significant part of executives total remuneration package: Non-executive Directors and continues to do so.
x the interests of the shareholders should be safeguarded by Remuneration committee operation aligning the remuneration package of the executives with The Remuneration Committee holds at least two meetings a shareholders interests: year.
It has an annual meeting to review the compensation arrangements for each Executive Director and certain senior x the package as a whole should be easy to understand and executives in advance of the annual salary review on 1 April.
motivating for the individual: and It also holds a further meeting to consider policy issues, and x the composition of the package should reflect best practice developments in market best practice, including the monitoring among comparable companies.
of award levels and consequent Company liabilities.
In addition, ad hoc meetings are held as required.
The number of meetings Consistent with its policy, the Remuneration Committee places held and details of members attendance are shown in the considerable emphasis on the performance-linked elements, table on page 52. including annual bonus and long term incentives.
58 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-43 44-64 65-128 Inside back cover Based on the details set out in this Report, the relative The 2007 bonus plan for both Andr Lacroix and Barbara importance of fixed and performance-related remuneration for Richmond is as follows: each of the Directors in respect of 2007 is as follows: Andr Lacroix and Barbara Richmond bonus plan 2007 Inchcape pay mix Target performance Maximum bonus Stretch performance 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Salary Bonus Target performance Long term incentives Base salary Long term incentives include both option grants of 200% of salary and participation in the Co-Investment Plan at a level In 2007, the Company met its performance targets set at the of 50% of salary.
Expected values have been calculated start of the year for Economic Profit and Net Promoter Score.
consistent with the Towers Perrin methodology used for recent Both Andr Lacroix and Barbara Richmond had different benchmarking exercises.
Compound share price growth of individual personal objectives relating to the development 10% p. a. has been assumed in the max performance scenario.
and implementation of the Companys strategy.
The goals The Remuneration Committee will continue to review the mix of are based on relevant quantitative non-financial metrics, the fixed and performance-linked remuneration on an annual basis.
achievement of strategic milestones and the demonstration of appropriate leadership behaviours.
They both fully achieved The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors are their personal objectives in 2007.
The resultant bonuses for explained in detail below as they apply to 2007 and, as far Andr Lacroix and Barbara Richmond are shown in the as possible, for subsequent years.
Base salary For 2008, there are no changes to the Executive Directors Base salaries are set by the Remuneration Committee, taking individual bonus opportunities, namely a payment of 50% into account the individuals level of responsibility, experience, of base salary if target performance is achieved and higher and performance.
Base salary is the only element of payments for performance above target to a maximum of remuneration which is pensionable.
In setting base salary, the Remuneration Committee also takes Co-investment plan account of salary levels in comparable companies.
To ensure At the Annual General Meeting in May 2007, shareholders its continuing relevance to Inchcape, the Remuneration approved the Co-Investment Plan, where Executive Directors Committee made a number of revisions to the comparator can invest up to 50% of their post tax annual salary to acquire group as communicated in last years report.
The revised ordinary shares in the Company In exceptional circumstances comparator group has a greater retail focus and includes the Remuneration Committee may determine that companies with strong consumer emphasis, in line with the circumstances justify that up to 100% of post tax annual salary Companys strategic aims and its desire to attract retail talent.
No such exceptional circumstances have Annual bonus arisen to date.
These shares will then be matched at the end The Remuneration Committee sets the annual bonus plans of a three year period.
The match will be determined by for the Executive Directors including performance measures, performance against a cumulative Economic Profit target.
For targets and the maximum levels of individual bonus the first operation of the Plan, if the target level of RPI 3% per opportunities.
In 2007, the bonus plan was based 70% on annum is achieved, then a one for one share match will occur.
Economic Profit, 20% on Net Promoter Score and 10% on A maximum two for one match will occur if cumulative achievement of personal objectives.
Economic Profit was Economic Profit exceeds cumulative RPI by 12% per annum.
chosen as the Remuneration Committee believes that this At points between these two levels, matching will take place is the measure most aligned with shareholder value.
Net on a straight line basis.
Economic Profit was chosen because Promoter Score is a measure being used to measure the Remuneration Committee believes this is a key driver of the customer satisfaction across the Group and is in line with Companys new business strategy.
the Companys business strategy of being the most The Co-Investment Plan was operated for the first time in customer-centric automotive retailer.
It will be extended on a broadly similar basis to certain other senior executives below the Board.
com 59 50% 120% Governance Remuneration report continued Executive share option plan awarded shares to an amount equal to the gross amount of the Under the Plan, share options are granted to Executive Directors bonus used to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
and certain other senior executives throughout the Group.
Final awards made under this Plan were made to Executive Options are normally made following the announcement of Directors in 2007.
Details of these awards are shown in note 4 preliminary annual or half-yearly results.
Details of share options on page 64. granted to Executive Directors in 2007 are shown in note 3 on page 63.
SAYE share option scheme Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys Options will vest according to the following sliding scale: SAYE Share Option Scheme on the same terms as other EPS growth per annum Vesting percentage employees.
Participants make monthly savings for a three year period.
At the end of the savings period share options become Less than RPI 3% 0% exercisable for a six month period.
The acquisition of shares RPI 3% 25% under this plan is not subject to the satisfaction of a performance target.
RPI 8% 100% Executive share ownership Between RPI 3% and RPI 8% Straight line basis To emphasise the importance, the Remuneration Committee There will be no retesting.
places on executive share ownership, Executive Directors are required to hold a fixed number of shares equivalent to 200% The Remuneration Committee has retained EPS as the of base salary.
Each Executive Director has up to five years from performance measure for the Executive Share Option Plan 2007, or date of appointment as an Executive Director if later, to ensure that Executive Directors only receive rewards under to reach this shareholding target.
it if there is significant and sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company.
EPS will At the end of the year, by reference to the share price at that continue to be the headline earnings per ordinary share, which date, Executive Directors share ownership levels are as follows: excludes volatile one-off matters such as exceptional items.
In Share Ownership exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee has Name of Director expressed as percentage against base salary the right to adjust the published EPS, as it considers appropriate.
Andr Lacroix 172% If this were to be the case, any adjustment would be disclosed in this Report.
In light of changes to accounting standards, the Barbara Richmond 89% Remuneration Committee has continued to make necessary adjustments to ensure a consistent basis in respect of the EPS Retirement benefits measure used to evaluate performance.
The Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme provides benefits for Executive Directors and certain other senior executives at During the year, the Remuneration Committee made annual the normal retirement age of sixty-five, equal to a maximum grants of two times base salary taking into account the of two-thirds of final base salary where salary has a schemeExecutive Directors and the Companys performance.
This grant specific ceiling of 112,800 in the 07 08 tax year, subject to level is necessary to keep the Companys long term incentive completion of between twenty years and forty years service.
provision in line with the market.
Grants in excess of the two Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase in line with times limit may be considered in the future in the event of new the lesser of 5% and the increase in the RPI.
hires or developments in market practice.
In this regard, the Remuneration Committee has the flexibility under the Plan rules The Scheme requires members who join after March 2005 to to increase the maximum allowable annual grant level to four contribute 7% of base pay up to the scheme specific ceiling of times base salary if required.
Deferred bonus plan Executive Directors, whose base salary is higher than 112,800 The Deferred Bonus Plan was a voluntary plan available to are paid a monthly cash supplement to enable them to make Executive Directors and certain other senior executives.
Barbara Richmond received such supplements in 2007.
Details of the amounts paid are Participants were able to invest a minimum of 10% and a shown in note 1 on page 62.
Andr Lacroix received a cash maximum of 75% of any net of tax bonus award to acquire supplement of 40% of his base salary in lieu of formal pension ordinary shares in the Company.
These shares would then provision.
He is not a member of the Inchcape Group UK be matched with a one for one matching share at the end Management Pension Scheme except in respect of the life of a three year period.
For Executive Directors, there was assurance benefit for death in service.
a performance condition attached to the vesting of their matching shares.
That test was EPS growth of RPI 3% per A lump sum life assurance benefit of four times full base salary annum, with no retesting.
Subject to that performance condition is provided on death in service.
For pension scheme members, being met for Executive Directors only, the participants shares a spouses pension of either half or two-thirds of the prospective being held in the Trust for three years and them remaining an members pension may also be payable.
Childrens pensions employee of the Group, he she would become entitled to be may also be payable, up to one-third of the members pension.
60 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-43 44-64 65-128 Inside back cover Taxable and other benefits Service contracts These include items such as company car, medical care The Companys policy is for Executive Directors service contract and life assurance premiums.
These benefits are in line with notice periods to be no longer than 12 months, except in the remuneration policy framework outlined above.
All current contracts contain notice benefits are non-pensionable.
In the event of termination, the Company will seek fair mitigation of contractual rights.
Within legal Performance graph constraints, the Remuneration Committee tailors its approach, in The following graph illustrates the Groups Total Shareholder cases of early termination, to the circumstances of each Return TSR over a five year period, relative to the performance individual case.
of the total return index of the FTSE mid 250 group of companies.
TSR is essentially share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
Normal retirement age is sixty-five for Andr Lacroix and Barbara The FTSE mid 250 has been chosen as the most suitable Richmond.
comparator as it is the general market index in which Inchcape Directors service contract table plc appears.
Name of director Date of agreement Notice period Unexpired term Historical TSR performance Andr Lacroix 01 September 05 12 months from To normal 500 the director: retirement age 12 months from the Company 400 Barbara 03 April 06 12 months from To normal Richmond the director: retirement age 300 12 months from the Company 200 Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, which may be extended by agreement with the 100 Board.
None of them are engaged on a service contract with Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 the Company.
A comparison of the growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding Policy on external appointments over five years against the FTSE 250 excluding investment companies based on 30 trading day average values.
Inchcape recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited Inchcape to become non-executive directors of other companies and FTSE mid 250 excl Investment Trust that this additional experience is likely to benefit the Company.
Executive Directors are, therefore, allowed to accept one Chairmans remuneration Non-executive appointment as long as it is not likely to lead to The Chairmans remuneration was determined by the conflicts of interest or undue time commitments.
The policy in Remuneration Committee, taking advice from Towers Perrin respect of the Executive Directors other commitments is kept on best practice and competitive levels and, taking into under review by the Nominations Committee.
Any fees received account responsibilities and time commitment.
Life assurance for these duties may be retained by the Executive Director.
is provided under the Group UK Pension Scheme but the appointment is not pensionable, nor is the Chairman eligible Andr Lacroix, the Group Chief Executive Officer, is a nonfor pension scheme membership or participation in any of the executive chairman of Good Restaurants AG for which he Companys bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
Barbara Richmond, the Group Finance Director is a non-executive director of the Scarborough Building Non-executive directors remuneration Society for which she received a fee of 35,500.
The remuneration of Non-executive Directors consists of fees for their services in connection with Board and Committee By order of the Board meetings.
Fees for Non-executive Directors are determined by the Board, within the restrictions contained in the Articles of Association.
Non-executive Directors fees are reviewed annually, taking advice from Towers Perrin on best practice and competitive levels.
The Non-executive Directors are not involved in deciding their fees.
Michael Wemms Non-executive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme Chairman of the Remuneration Committee membership or participation in any of the Companys bonus, 26 February 2008 share option or other incentive schemes.
