Remuneration Report Introduction Remuneration of executives This report sets out the Groups policy and disclosures in relation Policy to Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Committee considers that the Companys long-term success is It will be subject to shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
dependent on its ability to attract, retain, motivate and reward high-calibre individuals to deliver superior performance both in the The report complies fully with the requirements of the Directors short and long-term.
Its aim is to promote a performance-driven Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations and the culture by maintaining a competitive package of pay and benefits, Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and has been commensurate with packages of pay and benefits provided by audited by KPMG Audit Plc to the extent required by the Regulations.
other global companies of comparable size and complexity in the FTSE 250 index.
The Group has applied the Principles of Good Corporate Governance relating to the remuneration of its Directors and this report outlines For overseas executives, the objective is to provide a competitive how the Group has complied with the provisions of the Code as well package that is commensurate with comparable packages paid to as some of the guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies.
employees of other organisations overseas doing a similar-sized job in that region.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee Responsibilities The Group is an international service business deriving significant On behalf of the Board the Committee: amounts of its revenue from the Americas 35%, Europe, Middle East and Africa 30% and Asia Pacific 35%.
The international determines the Companys policy on the remuneration of, and nature and complexity of the Group are reflected in salary policy, incentives for, the Chairman, Executive Directors and other senior requiring alignment with the relevant local and international market executives mainly the Intertek Operations Committee IOC in order to retain and attract the right people.
which comprises the Group and Executive Vice Presidents : determines their remuneration packages, including any Exceptional performance on the part of both the Group and compensation on termination of office: individual can deliver upper quartile remuneration.
This direct provides advice to, and consults with, the Chief Executive Officer alignment with performance is considered by the Committee to be on major policy issues affecting the remuneration of senior clearly in the interests of shareholders and provides the executives executives: and with unambiguous signals about the importance of delivering keeps the remuneration policy under review in the light of regulatory success to the Companys shareholders in both the shortand and best practice developments and shareholder expectations.
Due regard is given to the interests of shareholders and the requirements of the Listing Rules and associated guidance.
In January 2008, the Committee reviewed the Groups remuneration policy for its Executive Directors and senior executives, The Committee met eight times during 2007.
Its terms of reference taking into account external developments in executive pay, to are available on our website.
ensure that the policy remains appropriate in the light of the Groups business needs and future strategy and is competitive.
Composition Following the review, the Committee has made changes to increase For the whole of 2007 the Committee comprised the following the performance-related element of remuneration for the Executive Non-Executive Directors of the Company: Directors and some senior executives within the context of the existing remuneration strategy.
In 2008, the maximum potential David Allvey Chairman cash bonus will increase in the case of the Chief Executive Officer Christopher Knight from 75% to 100% of base salary, and in the cases of the Chief Vanni Treves Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, from 60% to 70% of base salary.
The 2008 bonus targets have also been changed to Each Committee member is independent in accordance with the ensure that they are sufficiently stretching to align the interests Code with the exception of Vanni Treves who was independent of the Executive Directors and senior executives with those of the on appointment.
The Committee members have no personal Companys shareholders.
financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided and each director absents himself from matters relating to Components his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the balance between base and performance-related benefits when agreeing each individuals Advisors performance-related arrangements.
It aims to achieve alignment of To ensure that the Groups remuneration practices are market rewards with shareholder interests through a balance between the competitive and to help achieve its objectives, the Committee following elements: obtains information from various independent sources.
The Committee has appointed and taken independent advice on base salary: remuneration matters and share incentive arrangements from New annual cash performance bonus: Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC, on remuneration awards made under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan: benchmarking from Towers Perrin TP and on UK pension matters pension: and from Premier Pensions Management Limited PPM.
None of PPM, other benefits, which may include travel, school fees, TP nor NBSC has any other connection with the Company.
car allowances, permanent health insurance, life and private medical insurance and annual medicals.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 39 Remuneration Report Continued The balance of remuneration in 2007 for the two Executive Balance of remuneration in 2007 Directors is shown on the left.
Wolfhart Hauser 1 2 3 4 5 Base salary Annual increases in base salary are linked to: 38% 7% 29% 7% 19% the growth in size and complexity of the business: Bill Spencer demonstrable efforts and contribution of an individual to the 1 2 3 4 5 development of Intertek Group efficiency, synergy and strategy: and market movement.
46% 3% 24% 3% 24% 1 Salary 2 Benefits 3 Cash bonus 4 Pensions When the Committee takes benchmarking information into account, 5 Deferred share bonus it reviews the performance of the individual concerned against the above measures to ensure that there is no unjustified upward ratchet in remuneration.
Where a decision is made to increase base salary over the amount suggested by market movements, the Committee will expect the individual, taking into account levels of experience, to have demonstrated good and solid leadership within the business and a results-orientated approach, as well as considering the requirement to retain senior executives.
When determining salary increases for Executive Directors, the Committee is sensitive to pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
This is achieved by reviewing information on the top four countries, by employees, within the Group.
The salary increases granted to the Executive Directors for 2008 reflect recognition of achievement ahead of expectations, together with retention requirements and are as follows: 2007 Salary 2008 Salary % increase Wolfhart Hauser 473,000 533,500 12.8% Bill Spencer 251,462 270,070 7.4% Bonus proportions 2007 Annual incentives CEO and CFO The Executive Directors and senior executives are eligible for annual cash performance payments for the achievement of the financial 1 3 and strategic goals of the Group and its businesses.
All targets are established and approved by the Committee.
The level of bonus 90% 10% achieved is also taken into account in determining the size of Group Vice Presidents awards under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan described 1 2 3 on page 41.
The financial targets are derived from the goals determined by the 50% 40% 10% annual planning process for the Group and its businesses, which are Executive Vice Presidents the cornerstone of the Groups results-focused culture.
Executive 1 3 4 Directors and senior executives bonus criteria comprise the following: i Group performance elements: ii personal objectives 40% 10% 50% or divisional performance elements: and iii discretionary elements.
Shown on the left are the relevant proportions for different groups 1 Group target 2 Personal objectives 3 Discretionary 4 Divisional targets of senior executives for 2007.
Divisional targets The Committee reviews the bonus targets used each year to ensure that they remain relevant and appropriate for the Group.
For 2007 and 2008 the Group growth measures and their respective weightings are shown on the left.
Group growth measures 2007 and 2008 For each growth measure, three target levels are set and a fixed 1 2 3 4 proportion of the bonus available is applicable at each level.
Pro-rata awards will be made for achievement between the target 50% 25% 15% 10% levels.
Awards are applied to base salary.
1 Diluted adjusted EPS 2 Operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets The divisional elements of bonus are based upon similar financial arising on acquisitions and goodwill impairment translated at constant exchange rates 3 Operating cash flow Operating profit 4 Return on invested capital performance indicators for each division but with targets appropriate to that division.
40 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 The sum to be paid under the discretionary element, of up to 10% level of awards available under the current Plan.
Shareholder of total bonus, is determined by taking into account the overall approval will be sought for these proposals, which are described personal contribution of the executive to the goals and results fully in the Notice of AGM.
of the Group for the year, the development of the medium-term strategy of the Group, the achievement over the year of strategic The purpose of the Plan is to assist in the retention of senior objectives and demonstrable efforts and results in team-building executives and to align their interests with shareholders by linking and leadership.
The Committee recognises its responsibility to their rewards to Interteks share price performance.
shareholders to use its discretion in a reasonable and informed manner and in the Groups interests, and to be accountable and The Plan has two elements: transparent in the exercise of that discretion.
Deferred Shares are awarded to executives based on their annual The Committee can additionally award a discretionary payment bonus achievement.
They will therefore be rewarded for the where circumstances have occurred which were beyond the direct achievement of performance which is directly within their sphere responsibility of the executive and the executive has managed and of influence.
The awards vest after three years.
For the Executive mitigated the impact of any loss, or where circumstances have Directors and IOC the value of Deferred Shares will be equal to arisen outside the Groups control and the Committee feels that the cash bonus, currently subject to a maximum of 50% of salary.
payment is necessary to retain and motivate the executive concerned.
The Committee believes that this provides a simple and welltargeted form of reward.
The Committee has the discretion to reduce bonus payments if it Matching Share awards, which are subject to performance believes that short-term performance has been achieved at the requirements, are, at the discretion of the Committee, awarded to expense of the Groups long-term future.
The Committee also retains the most senior executives.
Awards of Matching Shares are linked the discretion to reclaim payments if the performance achievements to awards of Deferred Shares, and for the Executive Directors and are subsequently found to have been significantly misstated.
IOC are granted at a ratio of two Matching Shares for every Deferred Share.
Matching Shares vest after three years depending on the Based on the performance measures for 2007, cash bonuses Companys relative Total Shareholder Return TSR measured against of 75% and 49.6% of salary will be paid to Wolfhart Hauser and the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
Awards vest as follows: Bill Spencer respectively.
TSR Ranking % of Matching Award that vests The maximum annual cash bonus potential for 2007 and 2008 Below median None is outlined below: Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata on a straight-line Percentage of base salary 2007 2008 between 25% and 100% Chief Executive Officer 75% 100% Upper quartile 100% Chief Operating Officer 70% Chief Financial Officer 60% 70% In addition, irrespective of the companys TSR performance, no part Executive Vice Presidents 60% 60% of a Matching Award will vest unless the Companys normalised EPS growth over the performance period is, on average, at least Share incentives 2% per annum above the growth in the UK Retail Price Index RPI.
The Company believes that share ownership by employees is an integral part of its programme to incentivise, reward and retain The Company has undertaken to limit the number of awards satisfied employees as it strengthens the link between employees personal by newly issued shares under the Plan in the ten-year period from interests and those of shareholders and enables them to benefit the time the plan was adopted to 5% of the Companys issued from the growth of the Company.
The awards granted amounted to 0.48% of the Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2007.
Executive Directors and other employees are eligible to participate in the share plans, Non-Executive Directors are not.
Pensions Wolfhart Hauser The only long-term incentive plan currently in use is the Intertek Wolfhart Hauser is not a member of a Group company pension Deferred Bonus Share Plan the Plan.
This was approved in 2005 scheme.
Instead the Group contributes an amount equal to 20% and supersedes all previous Executive Share Option Plans, creating of his base salary to a personal pension arrangement.
During 2007 more effective rewards for executives throughout the Groups global this amounted to 94,600 2006: 86,000.
Wolfhart Hauser operations by linking their share rewards to the achievement of is entitled to life cover benefit comprising a lump sum payment the bonus targets which are directly relevant to them.
Awards have equivalent to four times his base salary.
Information about the Plan, awards granted under the Plan and the Directors participation in them is Bill Spencer given on pages 45 and 46.
Bill Spencer is a member of the defined benefit section of the Intertek UK Company Pension Scheme.
This is a defined benefit and The Company had established a share option scheme for executives defined contribution occupational pension scheme approved by the in March 1997.
This scheme was discontinued and replaced by the Inland Revenue.
The main features of the defined benefit section of Intertek Group 2002 Share Option Plan and the Intertek Group the scheme are shown on page 44.
2002 Approved Share Option Plan on 9 May 2002, under which options were granted by either the Company or the Employee Share retention Share Ownership Trust on the recommendation of the Committee.
A shareholding retention requirement has been set by the Committee.
No options have been granted since Executive Directors and the members of the IOC are now expected, 2005.
Information about the schemes and the Directors participation within five years, to build up a shareholding in the Company worth in them is given on page 46. at least 100% of base salary.
To assist in the building of this holding, it is expected that, after allowing for tax and similar liabilities, all the The Committee regularly reviews the appropriateness of the shares subject to each vested award under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Companys share incentive arrangements and targets to ensure Share Plan will be retained by the executive until the ownership that they remain challenging.
Having done so during the year, target is attained.
the Committee is proposing that changes should be made to the Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 41 Remuneration Report Continued Non-Executive Directors Service contracts The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Details of the service contracts currently in place for Executive Directors of the Company, for their work as Directors and as members Directors who have served during the year are as follows: of committees.
Their remuneration is assessed relative to the Groups Wolfhart Hauser has a service contract dated 1 March 2005: peer groups and following a review, fees increased on 1 March 2007.
Bill Spencer has a service contract dated 24 May 2002.
Both are Remuneration is neither pensionable nor eligible for annual incentive 12-month rolling contracts terminable by either party on 12 months payments and the Non-Executive Directors are not allowed to notice and contain provisions by way of compensation for loss participate in the Companys share incentive plan.
Other than of office, limited to payment of salary and bonus over a 12-month Vanni Treves, who has the benefit of a company car, and Richard period, and benefits in lieu of notice.
Wolfhart Hausers contract Nelson, for whom the Group maintains a life insurance policy in permits payments in lieu of notice to be made, at the Companys accordance with the terms of his previous employment contract election, either a in full on termination or b on a monthly basis with the Company, no other benefits-in-kind are provided.
but only for so long as he receives no remuneration from any other business.
If Wolfhart Hauser does receive any such remuneration, The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the monthly amount payable will be reduced by that remuneration, the Company.
The letter of engagement for each Non-Executive determined on a monthly basis.
Neither service contract contains Director states that they are appointed for an initial period of three provisions regarding a change of control.
years and all appointments are terminable by either one or three months notice on either side.
At the end of the initial period, the Policy on external appointments appointment may be renewed for a further period, if the Company The Company recognises that, during their employment with and the Director agree, subject to reappointment at the AGM.
Each the Company, Executive Directors may be invited to become letter of engagement states that should the Group terminate the Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that such duties appointment, on such termination the Non-Executive Director will can broaden their experience and knowledge.
Executive Directors not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
may, with written consent of the Company, accept such appointments outside the Company, and the policy is that any fees may be retained Vanni Treves and David Allvey are each engaged by the Group as by the Director.
On 1 January 2007 Wolfhart Hauser joined the Non-Executive Directors under the terms of a letter of appointment Board of LogicaCMG plc as a Non-Executive Director.
Both appointments were renewed for for this appointment for 2007 were 35,000. three years at the end of their three-year initial period.
Performance graph Richard Nelson is engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive Director Total Shareholder Return TSR, comprising the changes in value of under the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial period of a share and dividends distributed, can be represented by the value three years commencing 8 April 2005.
Under the terms of the same of a notional 100 invested at the beginning of a period and its letter of appointment Richard Nelson is entitled to remuneration change over that period.
of 1,000 per working day for any special project work agreed in advance by the Chairman.
The graph below shows the TSR in respect of the Company over five years.
The TSR for the Company is compared with the TSR for Debra Rade is engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive Director the FTSE Mid 250 index.
The FTSE Mid 250 index was selected under the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial period of as it is a broad market index of which the Group is a member.
In addition, the Group uses that group of companies, amongst others, for comparison of pay and benefit levels and as its TSR Christopher Knight is engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive comparator group in assessing performance for the vesting of Director under the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial Matching Shares under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan.
period of three years commencing 30 March 2006.
Raymond Kong, who ceased to be a Non-Executive Director on Intertek Group vs FTSE 250 TSR 11 May 2007, had been engaged by the Group under the terms of a letter of appointment commencing 1 July 2006.
On the same date, he entered into an agreement to provide independent professional 300 consultancy services to Intertek Testing Services Pacific Limited, as 250 and when required by the Chief Executive Officer of that company.
200 The agreement was terminable at one months notice without compensation for loss of office and Raymond Kongs remuneration 150 thereunder was 1,000 per working day.
100 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 With effect from 1 March 2007, the Non-Executive Directors are Intertek Group FTSE MID 250 paid as follows: The Chairman is paid 140,000 per annum.
The Deputy Chairman is paid 55,000 per annum.
Each remaining Non-Executive Director is paid 43,000 per annum, with the following additional amounts being paid for serving on Committees.
David Allvey receives 24,500 in total for acting as Chairman of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees and serving on each of the Board Committees and Christopher Knight receives 12,000 in total per annum for serving on each of the Board Committees.
42 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following section of the Remuneration Report.
The table below summarises Directors remuneration and pension contributions for 2007 and the prior year for comparison.
No payments for loss of office were made during the year and no other awards were made to any Director.
Other benefits for Wolfhart Hauser of 88,000 2006: 60,917 include long-term disability insurance, school fees, company car allowances and healthcare.
Other benefits for Bill Spencer comprise long-term disability insurance, healthcare and company car allowances.
In addition to his Non-Executive Directors fees, Raymond Kong received 3,500 2006: 29,000 under a consultancy agreement and 34,745 in lieu of shares vested under the deferred bonus plan see page 45.
Remuneration for 2007 is reported up to date of resignation, 11 May 2007.
No pension contribution was made in respect of Raymond Kong following his retirement from executive service on 30 June 2006.
All his vested benefit was paid as a lump sum of 1,270,143 in July 2006.
Remuneration for 2006 is reported from date of appointment, 30 March 2006.
In addition to his Non-Executive Directors fees, Richard Nelson received 1,000 2006: 5,000 for special project work undertaken during the year.
The other benefits for Richard Nelson of 50,880 2006: 50,880 is for a life assurance policy, in accordance with the terms of his previous employment contract with the Company, for 1.0m to be maintained for the whole of his life and payable to his beneficiaries on his death.
Other benefits for Vanni Treves comprise a company car.
Under the 2005 Deferred Bonus Share Plan, Deferred Awards are made to Executive Directors based on their previous years bonus achievement.
Awards vest after three years.
Matching Awards, which are subject to additional performance conditions, are also made.
Details of Deferred and Matching Awards are given in the table on page 45.
Transactions with Directors These are disclosed in note 28 to the financial statements.
Pensions In order to ensure that there is no adverse impact on liabilities, the Group made certain modifications to its UK pension schemes as a result of changes in UK pension legislation, which took effect from April 2006.
The Committee continues to review the current liabilities under the defined benefit section of the UK pension scheme and to monitor the effect of changes to future mortality rates and investment returns and how to limit the potential liability created by pension commitments.
The majority of the Groups employees are non-UK based and are therefore unaffected.
Further details of the Groups pension schemes, including the funding position, are disclosed in note 22 to the financial statements.
Details of the pension arrangements for those who have served as Executive Directors during the financial year are shown on page 44.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 43 Remuneration Report Continued Bill Spencer Normal retirement age 65 Annual pension at normal retirement age 1 60 of final pensionable salary highest base salary in any 12-month period during the five years immediately preceding retirement date for each year of pensionable service, except, for those members who were active members of the Scheme on 5 April 1996, the accrual rate is 1 45 for pensionable service in the period after 5 April 1996 and before 6 April 1999.
Members may exchange part of their pension for a tax-free cash sum.
This will reduce their pension but not that of their spouse.
Spouses or dependants pension payable on death of member Half of members pension.
Early retirement From age 50 onwards with the consent of the Company and the Trustees, based on accrued entitlement currently reduced by 4% for each year of retirement prior to age 65.
With effect from 6 April 2010, the minimum retirement age will increase to age 55.
Pension increases in payment or deferment Increases in deferment revaluation is in two parts: i The part that represents the Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP will be increased at the rate of 4.0% for each complete tax year between date of leaving and State Pension Age.
ii The balance of the pension will increase at the rate of 5.0% per annum or in line with the Retail Price Index if lower, for each completed year between the date of leaving and the Normal Retirement Date.
Increases in retirement or payment i Pre 6 April 1997, excess pension benefits will increase at the rate of 3% p. a. ii 6 April 1997 to 5 April 2005, excess pension benefits will increase at the rate of the lower of 5% per annum or the increase in Retail Price Index.
iii Post 5 April 2005 excess pension benefits will increase at the rate of the lower of 2.5% per annum or the increase in Retail Price Index.
iv Pre 1988 GMP will not increase.
v Post 1988 GMP will increase at the rate of 3% per annum or the increase in the Retail Price Index, if lower.
Employee contributions As determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 8.5% of base salary excluding incentive payments up to the company-set earnings cap which was 112,028 for the 2007 2008 tax year 109,296 for 2006 2007.
Employer contributions As determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 16% of base salary excluding incentive payments up to the company-set earnings cap.
Ill health or incapacity In the case of ill health, the pension is calculated as for early retirement but without the 4% reduction.
In the case of incapacity, the pension is calculated as if pensionable service had continued to normal retirement date.
Death in service A member is entitled to a refund of his own contributions plus either: i a lump sum of four times pensionable salary plus spouses pension which is 50% of the members prospective pension at normal retirement date based on prospective pensionable service to normal retirement date and final pensionable salary immediately prior to the members death : or ii lump sum of eight times pensionable salary, but with no spouses pension except for the contracting-out requirements.
Details of the accrued pension to which Bill Spencer is entitled to on leaving service and the changes during the year are shown in the table below: Contributions Increase made by in accrued Accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in transfer value 1 2 2 Age at the Director entitlement entitlement value value in year less contributions 1 31 December during the year during the year 2007 2006 2007 made by Director Name 2007 Bill Spencer 48 9,464 1,535 30,311 272,511 303,124 21,149 1.
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that would be paid each year on retirement at 65 based on service to 31 December 2007, excluding the effect of inflation.
Including inflation, the increase was 2,616 during the year.
The transfer value has been calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefit Schemes Transfer Values GN11 last revised by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries on 30 December 2005.
The transfer value disclosed above does not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director, instead it represents a potential liability of the Pension Scheme.
The value represents the full transfer value without reduction for any shortfall in scheme funding.
44 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 Directors interests in ordinary shares The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at the year end are set out below: Number of 31 December 31 December ordinary shares of 1p 2006 Acquired Sold 2007 David Allvey 5,270 5,270 Wolfhart Hauser Christopher Knight 5,000 5,000 Richard Nelson 500,000 500,000 Debra Rade Bill Spencer 210,000 78,000 132,000 Vanni Treves 50,000 50,000 Save as stated in this report, during the course of the year, no Director, nor any member of his or her immediate family, had any other interest in the ordinary share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
No changes in the above Directors interests have taken place between 31 December 2007 and the date of this report.
Directors interests in Long Term Incentive Plan and share options Non-Executive Directors are not allowed to participate in the Companys share incentive plans.
Awards made under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan and options granted to the Executive Directors under the 2002 Plan and the Approved Plan are shown below.
No options have been granted to the Executive Directors under the 1997 Plan.
DBP awards are made based on a share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing days before the date of grant.
At date of grant in 2007, the share price was 931p.
No payment is made by participants in the Plan.
The vesting of Matching Awards is subject to additional performance conditions described on page 41.
Following his retirement from executive service Raymond Kong retained his interest under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan until his retirement from the Board on 11 May 2007.
At that date 3,732 shares vested, but were satisfied by the payment of cash in lieu of shares of 34,745.
The vested award had been granted on 7 April 2006.
The share price applicable at vesting was 931p.
No performance conditions applied to the vested award.
The Matching Award lapsed on the same date.
Additional information about the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan The annual maximum value of Deferred Awards, which are not subject to a performance condition, is the amount of the annual cash bonus to which it is linked or 50% of basic salary.
In certain exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment or retention, the Committee has the discretion to make an award of Deferred Shares which is not linked to the achievement of the annual bonus but the same maximum salary limit will apply.
The maximum number of Matching Shares which may be awarded to an individual is twice the number of their corresponding Deferred Award i. e. a 2:1 match.
Vesting Awards Deferred Awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant provided the participant is still employed in the Group.
It is the current intention of the Company to satisfy vested awards by the issue of new shares.
Matching Awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant once the Committee has determined the extent to which the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied and provided the participant is still employed in the Group.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 45 Remuneration Report Continued Leaving employment If a participant leaves employment for certain reasons beyond the participants control or, at the discretion of the Committee, for any other reason, then the awards vest thus: i Deferred Awards will vest on a pro-rata basis on the date of cessation, although the Committee may decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances: ii Matching Awards will vest at the end of the period over which the performance conditions are measured, or the Committee may decide that the Matching Award will vest on cessation of employment.
The extent to which a Matching Award will vest will depend upon the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied over the full performance period or up to the date of cessation as appropriate.
In the event of a change of control, vesting of Matching Awards will occur on the same basis as for leaving employment, described above.
Deferred Awards will vest in full.
The Committee can set different performance conditions from those described on page 41 for future awards or those for existing ones.
Any such new targets will not, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, be materially less challenging in the circumstances than those described above.
The 2002 Share Option Plans Options Options Options 31 December granted in exercised in lapsed in 31 December 2006 2007 2007 2007 2007 Date option Number Number Option price Number Number Number becomes Date option of shares of shares of shares of shares of shares exercisable expires Wolfhart Hauser Approved Plan 3,856 7.78 3,856 April 2008 April 2015 2002 Plan 47,558 7.78 47,558 April 2008 April 2015 Total 51,414 51,414 Bill Spencer Approved Plan 6,864 4.37 6,864 May 2005 May 2012 2002 Plan 15,466 4.37 15,466 May 2005 May 2012 2002 Plan 21,357 3.59 951 20,406 April 2006 April 2013 2002 Plan 24,069 5.24 24,069 April 2007 April 2014 2002 Plan 29,563 7.78 29,563 April 2008 April 2015 Total 97,319 951 96,368 Additional information about the 2002 Share Option Plans Exercise prices were determined by the average of the closing middle market quotations of an ordinary share in the Company on the five dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant and the options granted are exercisable between three and ten years after the date of grant, provided the performance condition has been satisfied.
The Committee will decide whether the performance condition has been met at the appropriate time.
No options have been granted since 2005, but prior to that there were annual grants within each tranche equating to approximately 1% of the Companys issued share capital.
No individual was granted options with a value of more than their annual base salary in each year.
The options are subject to performance criteria unless there are regulatory or legal difficulties in jurisdictions where the employee is based.
The performance condition requires that the growth in the Companys EPS outperforms the growth in the RPI by a minimum of 5% per annum over a three-year period.
If the condition is met, 25% of the options become exercisable.
If the growth rate is 8% over RPI then two-thirds of options become exercisable.
100% of the options would only become exercisable if the Companys growth in EPS outperformed the growth in the RPI by 11% per annum over a three-year period.
For growth rates between 5% and 8%, and 8% and 11%, the percentage of options exercisable is calculated on a sliding scale.
In respect of options granted prior to 2005, if the performance targets were not met in full for the initial performance period of three years, the performance period could be extended by one further period of 12 months, to ascertain whether the balance of the unvested options can be exercised.
The final grant of options under the Plan in 2005 did not have a re-testing provision.
The above performance criteria were selected to closely link improvement in performance with increase in shareholder value.
The key features of the Approved Plan which was approved by HM Revenue & Customs were broadly the same as for the 2002 Plan, except that options were granted subject to the requirement that the aggregate exercise price of all the subsisting options granted to an employee under the Approved Plan, must not exceed 30,000.
Share information On 31 December 2007, the closing market price of Intertek ordinary shares was 990p.
The highest and lowest prices of the shares during the year were 1,043p and 843p respectively.
Approval of the Remuneration Report The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 10 March 2008.
David Allvey Chairman, Remuneration Committee 46 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
