Report on corporate governance continued The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board, and of the principal Committees of the Board during the financial year, together with details of attendance.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 94 8 5 Attendance: Iain Paterson 985 1 Ian Tomkins 6 2 Ceyda Erem Sir Jeremy Hanley 9 4 6 5 Michael Hartley 9 4 8 5 Edward Strachan 8 Russell Taylor 8 Malcolm Wall 73 7 4 3 Bill Dye 1 1 Ian Tomkins resigned from the Board on 3 September 2007.
2 Ceyda Erem resigned from the Board on 16 November 2006.
3 Bill Dye was appointed to the Board on 3 September 2007.
Communication with shareholders The Board considers communication with all shareholders to be extremely important.
Shareholders are provided with full-year and interim accounts to help them keep up to date with the performance of the Group and are given the opportunity to ask questions directly of the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are generally available to discuss shareholders concerns as and when required.
com is regularly updated with copies of all Group press releases and presentations given to shareholders.
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders by making strategic presentations to institutional investors every six months following the publication of the half-year and annual results, by meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and obtain their feedback and by communicating regularly throughout the year.
Board Committees The Board has established three Committees all of which have written terms of reference.
The terms of reference for the Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises only non-executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Sir Jeremy Hanley whom the Board considers has appropriate financial expertise to fulfil this role.
The other members are Michael Hartley and Malcolm Wall.
The meetings are also attended by the Chairman, the Finance Director, the deputy Finance Director and the auditors, together with any other member of staff considered necessary by the Committee to complete its work.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and ensures that at least twice a year it meets with the auditors without executives or other members of staff present to discuss matters relating to its remit and any issues arising.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing accounting procedures and the internal control environment.
The Committee also reviews announcements of the Companys results and monitors compliance with accounting standards and Company law.
In addition, the Committee considers the appointment of the Auditors, the scope of the audit and any issues arising, their fees and the nature, extent and costs of any non-audit services provided by them.
The Committee has access to any employee and is able to obtain external advice on any matter as required.
The auditors are able to request additional meetings at any time.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises only non-executive Directors.
The Committee, which is chaired by Michael Hartley, meets at least three times a year.
The other members are Iain Paterson, Sir Jeremy Hanley and Malcolm Wall.
The meetings are attended by the Chief Executive Officer and external advisers as appropriate.
Further information about the Committee is set out in the Report on remuneration on page 34.
ITE Group plc 32 Annual Report 2007 The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the non-executive Directors Iain Paterson, Sir Jeremy Hanley, Michael Hartley and Malcolm Wall.
The Committee, which is chaired by Iain Paterson, is responsible, if requested by the Board, for nominating candidates to the whole Board for approval, recommending the re-appointment or continuation in office of any Director, and for considering and making recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each of the above Committees.
Independence of external auditors The Audit Committee has established clear guidelines concerning the levels of discretionary non-audit fees it considers are appropriate to safeguard the independence of the auditors.
The Committee has implemented review and approval processes relating to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors, and undertakes an annual assessment of the auditors independence and effectiveness.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that there are sufficient safeguards in place to ensure auditor independence.
Whistle-blowing arrangements The Company has a set policy to enable and encourage staff to report in confidence any possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or otherwise.
The procedure for reporting any such matter has been communicated to all staff.
Internal audit function The Company does not currently have an internal audit function.
The Audit Committee annually considers whether an internal audit function is appropriate and makes an appropriate recommendation to the Board.
The central finance function is responsible for checking, monitoring and reporting on the control environment in the Groups accounting centres.
The Committee considers that at present the central finance function has sufficient independence to report objectively on the control environment in the accounting centres.
The Board has concluded that an internal audit function is not currently required.
The Audit Committee will continue to monitor this matter and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
Review of internal controls and of risk management process The Directors recognise that they have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal control and compliance with laws and regulations.
A system of internal controls has been established to allow the Board, in conjunction with management, to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Company on an on-going and pro-active basis.
The system also seeks to monitor the Companys overall financial, operational and compliance positions and to help safeguard shareholders investments and to protect the Companys assets.
The Board is responsible for this process and for ensuring that it remains effective and, in order to facilitate it, it has established a single organisational structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability, appropriate delegation of authority and open lines of communication.
The Company has a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
There is a thorough budgeting system for all lines of income and expenditure, with an annual budget approved by the Board.
Historical financial performance and revised forecasts for the full year are reported against budget and considered by the Board at each meeting.
The Board pays particular attention to those matters which, by their nature, expose the Company to significant risks and uncertainties, including exchange rates, which can be subject to considerable volatility and can have a material impact on the Companys operating results.
The Company has established procedures to deal with authorisations for expenditure.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the Companys data and infrastructure, and its information technology systems, are as secure as is reasonably practicable.
Security controls and procedures are in place to prevent unauthorised access to the Companys premises.
Hardware and software controls have also been instigated to prevent unauthorised access to the Companys computer system and network.
Regular back-ups of electronic information are taken with copies being stored offsite.
This system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This system of internal control has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval.
It is reviewed regularly by the Board and complies with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board has performed a specific assessment of internal controls for the purpose of this Annual Report.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
ITE Group plc 33 Annual Report 2007 Report on remuneration This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A Companies Act 1985.
The report also links the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to Directors remuneration.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Report on remuneration and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
This report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited information The Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are Michael Hartley Chairman, Sir Jeremy Hanley, Iain Paterson and Malcolm Wall.
All the members are non-executive Directors.
The Board considers Michael Hartley, Sir Jeremy Hanley and Malcolm Wall to be independent Directors.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: recommending to the Board the remuneration and terms and conditions of employment of the Chairman, executive Directors and key members of senior management: measuring subsequent performance as a prelude to determining the executive Directors and key managers total remuneration on behalf of the whole Board: and Granting awards under the ITE Groups Performance Share Plans and options under the various ITE Group Share Option Schemes detailed below.
During the year, the Committee consulted with New Bridge Street Consultants LLP to advise on executive remuneration and the operation of the various ITE Group share option schemes.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP has provided no other advice to the Company, having been appointed by the Committee.
Remuneration policy The Companys principal remuneration policy aim is to ensure that compensation offered is appropriate to attract, retain and motivate executive Directors and staff with the ability and experience to deliver the Companys strategy and grow the business, having regard to the challenging economic conditions and competition for such people in the markets in which the Company operates.
In formulating its policies the Committee has regard to and balances the following factors: a the remuneration packages offered to executives in companies competing in the same markets as the Company: b the remuneration practice in the markets in which the executive is principally based: c the need to align the interests of the executive with those of the shareholders: d the performance of the individual executive and of the Company as a whole: and e any amounts payable to executives in respect of services performed for the associates of the Company.
The remuneration packages of the executives comprise base salary and benefits, a performance-related bonus and longer-term share-based incentive arrangements.
A significant proportion of executive Directors remuneration is performance related.
The fees of the non-executive Directors are proposed by the Chief Executive and approved by the Board, taking account of practice adopted in other companies and the time commitment required.
The fees of the Chairman are determined by the Committee taking account of the role and the time commitment required.
The Chairman does not take part in those discussions.
Policy criteria for various components Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee.
Base salary levels are set by the Committee, taking into account each executive Directors role, experience, performance and the markets in which they perform their duties.
The base salaries for Bill Dye and Russell Taylor, and the consultancy remuneration for Edward Strachan are regularly reviewed and are subject to benchmarking exercises against industry and sector comparators.
Details of the executive Directors base salaries for the year commencing 1 October 2007 are set out under Directors service contracts.
ITE Group plc 34 Annual Report 2007 Variable bonus Certain of the executive Directors and senior management participate in performance-related annual bonus schemes Executive Bonus Plan, which recognise Company objectives in compound growth of headline profit before tax.
For the financial year commencing 1 October 2007, Bill Dyes and Russell Taylors maximum annual bonus opportunity provided under the Executive Bonus Plan will be 100% and 65% of base salary respectively.
Edward Strachans annual bonus opportunity through the Companys consultancy agreement with Kyzyl Tan Consultants Limited Kyzyl Tan is on a similar basis to the Executive Bonus Plan, and for the financial year commencing 1 October 2007 is capped at 85% of the Kyzyl Tan consultancy fee and his remuneration as a Director.
The bonus caps for the year commencing 1 October 2007 are unchanged from the caps that applied previously for the same posts.
In the financial year ending 30 September 2007, maximum bonus was achieved by Ian Tomkins, Russell Taylor and Edward Strachan through Kyzyl Tan under the Executive Bonus Plan, reflecting another year of excellent performance.
The Executive Bonus Plan applying to Bill Dye, Russell Taylor and Edward Strachan through Kyzyl Tan for the 2007-08 financial year is based upon achievement of a sliding scale of compound growth targets based upon headline profit before tax as it was last year.
No bonus is payable unless the minimum growth target is achieved.
Long-term incentives The Company has, in the past, operated Performance Share Plans and Share Option Schemes.
In addition, this year, the Remuneration Committee exceptionally approved a grant of conditional share awards to Bill Dye on his joining the Company as Chief Executive Officer.
Further details are set out under Directors service contracts.
It remains the Committees intention to use Performance Share Plan awards as the principal long-term incentive scheme for the future.
Options will only be issued if exceptional circumstances merit their use.
The Committee will regularly review the Companys share-based, long-term incentive policy in light of market practice, best practice and the Companys particular circumstances.
Performance Share Plans The Company operates the ITE Group plc Employees Performance Share Plan 2004 and the ITE Group plc Key Contractors Performance Share Plan 2004.
Awards can be made to executives and senior management over shares worth up to 100% of base salary each year, and under the latter scheme to key individuals who are not Group employees.
The performance targets set for awards to be made in the financial year commencing 1 October 2007 are set out below.
Aggregated headline diluted earnings per share for the financial years ending 30 September 2008, 2009 and 2010 Percentage of award that vests Below 29.8p Nil 29.8p 30% 29.8p 33.4p Between 30% and 100% Headline diluted earnings per share is calculated using profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill including associates and profits or losses arising on disposal of group undertakings.
These performance conditions have been chosen by the Committee to take account of the Companys biennial business cycle and to incentivise management to deliver sustained headline earnings per share performance over the relevant three year period.
The targets are based upon a compound rate of growth in headline diluted earnings per share over the comparable figure achieved in the year ended 30 September 2007.
The targets are calculated for each of the three performance years, taking account of any material events which are not annually recurring and aggregated into the Aggregated headline diluted earnings per share target.
The Committee will, for the purposes of third party verification, confirm with external advisers the extent to which these targets are met.
Executive Directors will be required to retain shares of a value equal to 25% of the after-tax gain made on the vesting of awards under the Plans, until they have built up a shareholding equal to 1x salary.
Conditional share award grant On the appointment of Bill Dye as Chief Executive Officer on 3 September 2007, the Committee granted him a conditional share award.
Further details of this scheme are set out under Directors service contracts.
ITE Group plc 35 Annual Report 2007 Report on remuneration continued Share option plans The Company has previously operated the following option schemes: the ITE Group 1998 Company Share Option Plan: the ITE Group 1998 Discretionary Share Option Scheme: the ITE Group 1998 Key Contractor Share Option Scheme, and the ITE Group Employee Share Trust Unapproved Share Option Scheme.
Options can be granted under the ITE Group 1998 Company Share Option Plan and the ITE Group 1998 Discretionary Share Option Scheme to ITE Group employees.
Options can be granted under the ITE Group 1998 Key Contractor Share Option Scheme to key individuals who are not Group employees.
The ITE Group Employee Share Trust Unapproved Share Option Scheme can grant options to ITE Group employees over shares held in the ITE Group Employees Share Trust the ESOT.
It is the Committees present intention not to grant further options under these arrangements, save in exceptional circumstances.
The last grant of options made by the Company under these schemes was in December 2004.
Pensions The Company offers a stakeholder pension to its employees but currently makes no company contribution under this scheme.
The Company makes a contribution equal to 10% of Bill Dyes base salary to his existing money purchase pension scheme.
Directors service contracts Chief Executive Officer Ian Tomkins was the Chief Executive up to 3 September 2007 when his employment terminated.
Bill Dye Disclosure of Recruitment Award in Remuneration Report Bill Dye was appointed Chief Executive on 3 September 2007.
His terms of employment included the payment of a cash sum of 150,000 that equated to bonus amounts foregone by him as a result of his leaving his previous employment to join ITE.
He was required to invest half of the net amount received in ITE shares which took place on 1 October 2007.
Bill Dye also received a conditional award over 215,385 ITE shares on 21 September 2007 which compensated him for the loss of equity positions he had held in his previous employment and lost as a result of leaving that employment to join ITE.
The ITE shares were worth 350,000 at the date of the grant of the award.
The conditional award was granted pursuant to the exemption from the need for prior shareholder approval contained in Listing Rule 9.4.
The award is non-pensionable and non-transferable.
One third of the shares i. e. 71,795 ITE shares will vest on each of the first three anniversaries of grant being 21 September 2008, 21 September 2009 and 21 September 2010 but if Bill Dye sells any of the purchased shares, ceases employment with the Company or gives or receives notice to terminate such employment, the award will lapse.
To the extent that the award vests, the relevant ITE shares will be delivered free of charge but, to the extent it does not vest in part or in full, it will lapse.
On a change of control or winding-up of the Company, the award shall vest in respect of such number of shares as the Committee determines taking into account, in the event of a change of control and if the Committee so determines, the period that is elapsed since the grant of the award to the date of the change of control.
In the event of any variation of the Company share capital, the award may be adjusted by the Committee in such manner as it deems appropriate.
The award will not confer any shareholder rights on Bill Dye until it vests.
The award agreement may be amended in such manner as the Company and Bill Dye may see fit, except that the Company will seek prior shareholder approval for any amendments which are to his benefit.
The Committee confirms that the conditional award was felt to be necessary to facilitate the recruitment of Bill Dye as Chief Executive, given the benefits he was foregoing in leaving his previous employment.
Executive Directors Bill Dye Chief Executive and Russell Taylor Finance Director have UK contracts of employment which reflect market and best practice for senior management serving in the UK and have no fixed term.
Notice periods and base salary details for all directors are outlined in the tables set out below.
Other than the contribution to Bill Dyes pension scheme described above, there are no contributions to pension schemes.
The standard terms provide for medical insurance and life insurance but provide for no other fringe benefits such as company cars.
In the event of early termination of an executive Directors contract, it is the Committees policy that subject to the provisions of each contract the amount of compensation if any paid to the executive Director will be determined by reference to the relevant circumstances that prevail at the time.
The Committees objective will be to avoid rewarding poor performance.
Furthermore, the Committee will take account of the executive Directors duty to mitigate his loss.
ITE Group plc 36 Annual Report 2007 Edward Strachans remuneration as a Director from 1 October 2007 is 37,000.
In addition, Edward Strachan is remunerated as a consultant through the Companys agreement with Kyzyl Tan.
The agreement with Kyzyl Tan is a three-year contract to provide the services of Edward Strachan to the Company from 1 October 2005 to 30 September 2008.
The base consultancy fee under this agreement for the year commencing 1 October 2007 is 320,000.
Kyzyl Tan is entitled to a bonus based upon the same targets and criteria as Bill Dye and Russell Taylor, which is capped at 85% of Kyzyl Tans base consultancy fee and Edward Strachans remuneration as a Director for the year ending 30 September 2008 i. e. 357,000 in total.
For the financial year ending 30 September 2007, Kyzyl Tan is entitled to a bonus based upon the profitability of certain events.
This additional amount accrues from a previous contractual arrangement between Kyzyl Tan and the Company, the effect of which expires at 30 September 2007.
Under the Kyzyl Tan contract, Edward Strachan is required to reside in the markets where his management responsibilities are based and Kyzyl Tan is entitled to a living away from home allowance of $90,000 for its employee for each year of the contract.
The Remuneration Committee considers that Edward Strachans unique knowledge and skills of managing the exhibition business in the regions for which he is responsible, together with the requirement for him to reside abroad, warrants the Company entering into a consultancy contract with a fixed term in excess of one year.
The Committee firmly believes that this contract is in the best interest of the Company.
The arrangement will be reviewed on its termination to ascertain whether this basic approach remains, at that time, in the interests of shareholders.
Consistent with market practice, other than Edward Strachans arrangements that have been established to take account of his specific circumstances and value to the Company, there are no service contracts or other employment arrangements with any of the executive Directors with fixed terms or notice periods in excess of one year or terms which would expose the Company to compensation payments in excess of one years total remuneration.
The dates of each contract, the relevant notice period and base salary for 2007-2008 are as follows: Name Date of contract Notice period Base salary 2007-2008 Bill Dye 3 September 2007 12 months 400,000 Russell Taylor 25 March 2003 12 months 236,250 Ian Tomkins 1 July 1998 12 months Terminated 3 September 2007 Non-executive Directors The Chairman and non-executive Directors are entitled to one months written notice to terminate their contracts but no further rights to compensation payments on termination.
The dates of the contracts are for Iain Paterson 27 May 2002, for Sir Jeremy Hanley 26 February 2004, for Michael Hartley 20 October 2003 and for Malcolm Wall 4 May 2006.
The non-executive Directors salaries were subject to an independent benchmarking exercise against industry comparators, taking account of their time commitment and responsibilities.
As a result of this, each of the non-executive Directors fees not including the Chairman was increased by 6,000 p. a. effective from 1 October 2007.
Accordingly the remuneration for the year commencing 1 October 2007 for Sir Jeremy Hanley will be 58,000, for Michael Hartley 39,000 and for Malcolm Wall 36,000.
Performance graph Total shareholder return of ITE Group plc over the last five financial years compared to the FTSE Small Cap and FTSE 250 Index.
ITE Group plc became a constituent company of the FTSE 250 Index in June 2007.
Total shareholder return Source: Thomson Financial 800 ITE Group plc 700 FTSE 250 Index 600 FTSE Small Cap Index 500 400 300 This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2007, of 100 invested in ITE Group plc on 30 September 200 2002 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE Small Cap Index and the value of 100 invested in 100 the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
0 30-Sep-02 30-Sep-03 30-Sep-04 30-Sep-05 30-Sep-06 30-Sep-07 This graph illustrates the performance of the Company compared to The FTSE Small Cap Index and The FTSE 250 Index over the past five years.
The Company was a constituent of the FTSE Small Cap index up to 18 June 2007 and thereafter of the FTSE 250 Index and these indices are considered the most appropriate form of broad equity market index against which the Companys performance should be measured.
Performance is measured by Total shareholder return share price growth plus dividends paid.
ITE Group plc 37 Annual Report 2007 Value Report on remuneration continued Audited information Aggregate Directors remuneration The total amounts for Directors remuneration and other benefits were as follows: 2007 2006 000 000 Emoluments 2,736 2,185 Gains on exercise of share options see page 39 for details 6,964 273 Total 9,700 2,458 Directors emoluments Compensation Fees basic Annual Benefits for loss 2007 2006 salary bonuses in kind of office total total Name of Director Notes 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Bill Dye 1,4 33 150 4 187 Ian Tomkins 2,4 367 400 374 1,141 718 Ceyda Erem 3,4 24 24 188 Edward Strachan 5 340 390 46 776 721 Russell Taylor 225 146 1 372 332 Non-executive Iain Paterson 6 120 120 120 Sir Jeremy Hanley 53 53 53 Michael Hartley 33 33 33 Malcolm Wall 30 30 12 Former Director 8 Aggregate emoluments 1,225 1,086 51 374 2,736 2,185 Notes 1.
Bill Dye was entitled to a payment of 150,000 on commencement of his contract.
This equated to amounts due to him in his former employment and foregone as a consequence of taking up his position as Chief Executive of ITE, as stated under Directors services contracts.
This amount is included under Annual bonuses in the table above.
Contributions to his pension scheme are included under Benefits in kind.
Ian Tomkins employment contract was terminated on 3 September 2007.
Under his contract of employment, he was due to be paid to 31 December 2007 and 134,333 was paid in lieu of notice for the period from 3 September to 31 December 2007 included above under Compensation for loss of office.
Ian Tomkins bonus of 400,000 for the year ended 30 September 2007 was paid following confirmation that the financial targets had been achieved in full for that year.
The Company is contractually obliged to pay Ian Tomkins a bonus for the period to 31 December 2007 which will be based on sales achieved at that date.
An estimate of 240,000 has been included under Compensation for loss of office in respect of this obligation.
Ceyda Erem was paid $40,000 approximately 20,000 for her services as Managing Director of the associate Company ITF for the part of the year for which she was also a Director of ITE Group plc $311,000 for the year ended 30 September 2006.
These Directors served for only part of the year ended 30 September 2007.
Edward Strachan earned Directors fees of 37,000 for the year and he is a shareholder of Kyzyl Tan Consultants Limited Kyzyl Tan, which received consultancy fees for services provided to the Group of 303,000 per annum.
These amounts are included under Fees basic salary.
Kyzyl Tan earned total performance-related bonuses of 390,000 for the year of which 289,000 related to his annual bonus arrangements for the year and 101,000 was in respect of performance related payments due to him under a previous agreement, the effect of which expires on 30 September 2007.
Kyzyl Tan was paid 46,000 in the year to 30 September 2007 for living away from home allowance in accordance with its consultancy agreement.
These amounts are all included in the table above.
Iain Paterson received half of his remuneration in shares issued at an average mid-market price over the year ending 30 September 2007.
With regard to his accumulated shareholding and so as to protect his independent status, Iain Paterson has agreed to receive all of his remuneration in cash from 1 December 2007.
Total compensation for loss of office in the year was 374,000 2006: nil.
ITE Group plc 38 Annual Report 2007
