Remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A In 2007, the Committee met on three occasions to discuss, to the Companies Act 1985.
The report also meets the relevant agree and make recommendations to the Board on the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services following issues: Authority and describes how the Board has applied the 18 January to approve payments to be made under the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors Annual Bonus Scheme relating to performance in 2006 and remuneration.
As required by the regulations the report will be to approve salary changes for 2007: approved by the Board of the Company and signed by a Director 15 March to approve the strategic objectives, financial and or Secretary on behalf of the Board.
share price targets for the 2007 Annual Bonus Scheme, to confirm the vesting of share options made in 2003 and to Unaudited information discuss and agree the performance conditions to be used Remuneration Committee in and agree the allocation of share options in 2007: and The Remuneration Committee the Committee operates 24 September to discuss Executive Directors service under the delegated authority of the Board: the Committees agreements.
primary role is to review, agree and approve, or as required under the Combined Code to make recommendations to the Remuneration policy Board, on: The Companys overall approach to pay and benefits is to the Companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors reward employees competitively, taking into account Company and senior management: and individual performance, market value and competitive service contracts of the Executive Directors: pressures in the independent oil and gas sector.
The Company remuneration of the Executive Directors: does not seek to maintain any strict market position but aims to ensure that pay is set at an appropriate level and is comparable remuneration of senior management identified by the with peer group companies.
Committee: and participation in, and operation of, the Companys share The Committee has appointed Mercer to provide technical option plans.
advice on developments and market trends in how Directors remuneration packages are structured, to provide general The full terms of reference are available from the Company advice on remuneration matters including contract structure Secretary.
and to provide information on remuneration levels in The Committee is chaired by Viscount Asquith having been comparator oil and gas companies.
Mercer provide no other appointed on 26 June 2007 upon the resignation of Mr John services to the Group.
Mapplebeck and comprises the two independent NonThe comparator companies are UK-based oil and gas executive Directors Viscount Asquith and Mr Nigel Moore companies and are primarily quoted on the LSE or AIM.
These and the Chairman, Lord Fraser, who is included to meet the companies subscribe to a survey conducted by Mercer.
For Companys objective of the Committee comprising three comparator purposes the Committee requested Mercer to members.
Dr Paul Davies, the Chief Executive, attends the group them into three divisions in the UK oil and gas sector, Committee meetings by invitation but is not able to vote and which includes subsidiaries of non-UK parent companies.
is not present when his own remuneration arrangements are agreed.
No Director plays a part in any discussion about his In early 2007, Mercer was also asked to undertake a health own remuneration.
check of the Companys remuneration practices and policies to ensure that the Company was continuing to apply best None of the Committee has any personal financial interest practice approach.
other than as a shareholder as detailed in page 44, which given the level of holdings the Board accepts as not impairing There are four main elements of the remuneration package for independence, conflicts of interests arising from crossExecutive Directors and senior management: directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the Basic annual salary including Directors fees and benefits: business.
Annual bonus payments: Medium Term Incentive arrangement i. e. Share Option Scheme: and Pension.
44 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 The Board believes that the performance-related elements of Annual Bonus Scheme remuneration which feature in the Annual Bonus Scheme and The Annual Bonus Scheme, which is based on the achievement the Medium Term Incentive Plan Share Option Scheme should of relevant and stretching performance conditions determined form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package by the Committee, was introduced in 2001 for Executive of Executive Directors, should be designed to align their Directors and certain senior management including staff in interests with those of shareholders and structured to give Poltava Petroleum Company PPC.
The application of the Executive Directors keen incentives to perform at the highest scheme in any given year is discretionary and annual awards levels.
The remuneration packages are prudently designed to are not pensionable.
attract, motivate and retain Directors of the high calibre needed The Chief Executive may earn an annual performance-related to maintain the Groups position in the market and to reward bonus payment of up to 100 per cent of his basic salary Bonus them for enhancing value to shareholders.
Factor, the Finance Director and Company Secretary 70 per It is the Groups policy that service contracts, including the cent and the Technical and Commercial Directors 60 per cent.
Chief Executives, be unlimited in term but capable in normal Other senior managers can earn an annual bonus payment of circumstances of termination on 12 months notice.
The up to a maximum of 50 per cent of their basic salary.
Directors contracts of service that include details of The Committee establishes the performance conditions remuneration will be available for inspection at the AGM.
The objectives that must be met for each financial year.
The Directors contracts are sterling denominated contracts, and performance conditions, which are derived from the Companys basic salaries, annual bonuses and other payments are paid annual budget and strategic plan approved by the Board, are in sterling.
divided into three segments: 1. financial: 2. increase in share Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside price: and 3. strategic, as follows: the Company providing that the Chairmans permission is 1.
Financial objectives sought and fees in excess of 20,000 from all such i Pre-tax profit and ii Return on average capital appointments are accounted for to the Company.
employed: these include a minimum level -10 per cent The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined below which no bonus element is earned, a target level and by the Board within limits set out in the Articles of Association.
a maximum of 25 per cent of the target.
Increase in share price Basic salary i Average annual share price and ii Spot year start and An Executive Directors basic salary is determined by the year end share price.
Committee at the beginning of each year and when an individual changes position or responsibility.
In deciding A strike price of base price 0 per cent and 10 per cent is appropriate levels, the Committee considers the Group as a established respectively for each measurement before any whole and relies on independent and objective research that bonus element is paid.
For the maximum to be earned the gives up-to-date information on a comparator group of UK average strike price must increase 10 per cent and the spot companies operating in the independent oil and gas sector.
strike price must increase 10 per cent.
A sliding scale The individual salaries and benefits of Executive Directors operates between the base and maximum.
are reviewed and adjusted taking into account individual 3.
Strategic objectives performance and market factors.
No Executive Director This segment includes a variety of measures e. g. book new plays a part in any discussion about his own remuneration.
reserves, acquire new licences, increase production, drill In addition to basic salary, the Executive Directors receive exploration wells, develop permits etc: as far as possible certain benefits-in-kind, principally health cover.
these measures all contain quantifiable figures to reduce the subjective assessment of performance.
Details of the Executive Directors basic salary and benefits in 2007 are shown on page 49.
Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 45 Remuneration report continued Annual bonus payments 2007 Weighting % of % Extent of Weighting % of salary subject performance salary on which Weighting to bonus condition achieved bonus achieved Chief Executive Financial objectives 35 35.00 Increase in share price 30 15.50 Strategic objectives 35 30.10 Total 100 80.60 100 80.60 Finance Director Financial objectives 40 40.00 Increase in share price 30 15.50 Strategic objectives 30 26.10 Total 100 81.60 70 57.12 Technical Director Financial objectives 35 35.00 Increase in share price 30 15.50 Strategic objectives 35 31.50 Total 100 82.00 50 41.00 Commercial Director Financial objectives 25 25.00 Increase in share price 30 15.50 Strategic objectives 45 45.00 Total 100 85.50 50 42.75 The table below shows that the weighting applied to each Based on the 2007 results, the Chief Executive received a bonus performance condition varies slightly for each Executive payment of 249,900 80 per cent of basic salary, the Finance Director and for senior management.
This is done so that the Director and Company Secretary 119,900 57 per cent, the performance conditions are structured individually to reflect Technical Director 57,800 37 per cent, and the Commercial each Executive Directors area of responsibility and his ability Director 60,300 39 per cent.
Other senior management to influence results although the need for the executive received bonus payments of between 24 per cent and 39 per management to operate as a team is also recognised.
To earn the maximum level of bonus requires: all pre-tax profit, The Bonus Scheme has been in existence for six years.
In return on average capital and average and spot share price March 2007, the Committee reviewed the overall performance maxima to be met or exceeded and all of the strategic of the Bonus Scheme and approved revised performance objectives to be met.
conditions to apply for 2007 although the basic criteria of measuring performance against financial, strategic and share In 2007, the performance conditions established and the actual price objectives have been retained.
achievements for the financial and share price segments were as follows: Medium Term Incentive arrangements Share Option Scheme Target Achievement The Board believes that the attraction, motivation and retention Financial of senior executives and employees is central to the Companys Pre-tax profit $93.1m $113.3m success and is convinced that a medium term incentive plan is an important and effective means of achieving this objective.
Return on average capital employed 22.2% 29.5% The Inland Revenue approved the JKX Oil & Gas plc Strike price Actual Discretionary Share Option Scheme 2001 and the Unapproved Increase in share price JKX Oil & Gas Discretionary Share Option Scheme 2001 Spot 325p 400p collectively the New Share Option Schemes that were introduced in 2001 reflected the best practice aspects Average 334p 334p recommended by the Association of British Insurers following the publication of their guidelines in March 2001 the ABI Guidelines.
46 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 At the time the New Share Option Schemes were developed, Grants are made by reference to the market value mid-Market a variety of alternative measurements to link remuneration to price of the Companys shares under option at the time of performance and align the interests of participating Directors grant.
Executive Directors are not required to pay for the grant and senior management with those of shareholders were of share options.
The ABI Guidelines suggest comparison of the Annual awards to the Executive Directors are currently limited Companys performance against an appropriate peer group.
to a maximum of 100 per cent salary in the case of the Chief At the time it was difficult to select sufficient quoted companies Executive Officer and the Finance Director and 80 per cent of similar size and profile in the independent oil and gas sector for the Technical and Commercial Directors calculated by to form a meaningful peer group.
Consequently, it was felt that reference to the face value of the shares under option at the an increase in share price combined with a comparison to an time of grant.
external benchmark, the Financial Times Stock Exchange Fledgling Index FTSE FI, was the most appropriate structure.
After three years, the number of options that can be exercised is determined by two factors: 1 the actual increase in the As a result of an increase in share price in the second quarter Companys share price: and 2 a comparison of the actual of 2004, the Company moved up into the FTSE Smallcap Index increase in the share price to the change in the FTSE FI until FTSE SI and the benchmark was rebased.
Further increases the end of June 2004 and the FTSE SI until 2006.
For awards in share price meant that in March 2006 the Company moved made from 2006 onwards the comparison is made against the up into the FTSE 250 Index FTSE 250I.
higher of the change in the FTSE 250I and the FTSE Oil & Gas Also in March 2006, the Committee reviewed the operation and Producers Index.
effectiveness of the New Share Option Schemes taking into Share price factor account the Companys growth, progression out of the FTSE FI Share price at exercise price or below 0 and the relevance of the performance conditions after four Share price between exercise price years of operational experience.
The Committee concluded that and 150 per cent of exercise price Up to 0.5 a comparison of total shareholder return TSR against the FTSE Index in which the Company is a constituent at the time Share price in excess of 150 per cent of the grant remained an appropriate external benchmark but and up to 200 per cent of exercise price 0.66 that, in view of the substantial changes in oil and gas prices Share price in excess of 200 per cent over the past four years, the share option scheme should also of exercise price 1 have an oil and gas industry benchmark.
The Committee concluded that the FTSE Oil & Gas Producers Index was the FTSE FI SI 250I Oil & Gas Producers Index factor most appropriate external oil and gas benchmark.
Where the percentage increase in the share price is: The Rules of the New Share Option Schemes address eligibility, in the lowest quartile of the percentage growth in the FTSE index 0.25 timing of grants and exercise of options etc, and require that the shareholders are to be consulted if any substantive in the second quartile of the percentage amendments to the Rules are required.
The Committee growth in the FTSE index 0.5 continues to feel that ongoing annual refinements of the in the third quartile of the percentage scheme are not a substantive change that required shareholder growth in the FTSE index 0.75 consultation.
in the top quartile of the percentage The Committee has discretion as to the application of the Rules growth in the FTSE index 1 of the New Share Option Schemes, particularly in the level of awards and the setting of the level of Performance Conditions.
The share price and FTSE index factors are multiplied together and the resultant figure is applied to the number of options The Committee has prepared internal guidelines to enable it to granted to an individual to determine the number of options administer the New Share Option Schemes.
In awarding share to be vested.
options the Committee take into account the ABI Guidelines in terms of individual and collective limits and other factors such The structure has been designed to introduce a sliding scale as the performance of the Company and the individual in the as distinct from a specific individual benchmark.
It requires the previous 12 months, the effect of the vesting of grants awarded share price to double and this increase to be in the top quartile in previous years e. g. dilution, cost to the Company, the overall of the growth in the FTSE index for all of the awards granted to remuneration level annual salary, bonus award and benefits of become vested.
For awards granted in 2006 onwards the share the individual relative to the market and his performance in the price must have doubled and for this increase to be in the top previous year.
Reference is also made to the value of medium quartile of the growth in the higher of the FTSE 250I and and long-term incentive arrangements in comparator groups FTSE Oil & Gas Producers Index for all of the awards to shown in the aforementioned report from Mercer.
Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 47 Remuneration report continued To encourage the retention of key staff, the Committee has In the event of early termination, the Directors contracts determined that an option holder will only be able to exercise provide for compensation up to a maximum of basic salary for up to 50 per cent of vested options at any one time and up to the notice period.
50 per cent after a period of 12 months, unless determined otherwise by the Committee.
Non-executive Directors All Non-executive Directors have specific terms of engagement The graph below shows the Companys performance, and their remuneration is determined by the Board within the measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE limits set by the Articles of Association and based on FI, the FTSE SI the FTSE 250I and the FTSE Oil Producers Index independent surveys of fees paid to Non-executive Directors of measured by TSR.
The setting of the Chairmans remuneration is the responsibility of the Board and not the Committee, JKX OIL & GAS as recommended by Section B.
FTSE FLEDGLING PRICE INDEX The Board believes this is appropriate given the Board size.
FTSE SMALL CAP PRICE INDEX FTSE ALL SHARE OIL & GAS PROD PRICE INDEX Lord Fraser and Viscount Asquith have Non-executive Director FTSE 250 PRICE INDEX service contracts dated 1 January 2002.
Mr Nigel Moores Nonexecutive service contract is dated 12 July 2007.
These service 3000 contracts are for an indefinite term, not a finite term as recommended by Section A.
7.2 of the Combined Code, subject to re-election on an as required basis.
However, all of the 2500 contracts are subject to three months notice by either party and as such, the Board continues to believe this is appropriate given the company size, the non-executive skill set, and the 2000 continuing evaluation of performance and independence.
In the event of early termination, the Non-executive Directors contracts provide for compensation of three months base fee.
1500 The Non-executive Directors contracts specify the powers and duties of the Non-executive Directors and the time 1000 commitments anticipated and remuneration arrangements.
The Non-executive Directors are paid a base fee for carrying out their duties and responsibilities as Directors, and fees for 500 membership and where applicable chairmanship of each of the remuneration and audit committees.
The base fees is based on a per annum rate in sterling that is compared to published 0 material concerning Non-executive fees in similar size 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 companies.
Share option awards, vesting and valuation of options In 2007, the total fees paid to each Non-executive Director in The Committee also confirmed that prudent and appropriate the year were: Lord Fraser 49,000, Viscount Asquith 45,000, arrangements for any acquisition and financing of shares to Mr Nigel Moore 23,000 appointed 26 June 2007 and meet contingent liabilities, to provide shares or meet Mr John Mapplebeck resigned 26 June 2007 50,000.
This obligations are in place.
includes compensation for performing the additional roles in respect of the Committee and Audit Committee.
The Company does not operate any long-term incentive schemes other than the share option schemes described Non-executive Directors cannot participate in any of the above.
No significant amendments are proposed to be made Companys share option schemes and are not eligible to join to the terms and conditions of any entitlement of a Director the Companys pension scheme.
In March 2007, the Board reviewed the amount of time that the Non-executive Directors were spending on Company business.
Pension arrangements The Board recognised that changes in company law and The Company makes a contribution equivalent to 15 per cent corporate governance were placing additional responsibilities of basic salary to the pension scheme of the Directors choice.
and time requirements on Non-executive Directors.
The Board examined information on Non-executive Directors fees in other Directors contracts and similar companies in the sector.
As a result, Mercer were It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have asked to review existing Non-executive arrangements.
Mercers contracts with an indefinite term but with two-way notice report was received in April 2007 and the levels of periods.
Dr Paul Davies and Mr Bruce Burrows have compensation changed to those outlined in this report.
employment contracts dated 1 January 2007 and Mr Martin Miller and Mr Peter Dixon have employment contracts dated 1 July 2007.
All the contracts are subject to one years notice by either party.
Included in salaries and fees are consultancy fees paid to Viscount Asquith and Mr John Mapplebeck amounting to $nil 2006: $28,708 and $17,514 2006: $11,787 respectively.
The fees paid to Viscount Asquith were made to Dessna Company Limited in which he has a controlling interest.
In 2008 the fees paid to the Non-executives were reassessed and increases were agreed which were effective 1 January 2007 but paid in 2008.
The Chairman, Lord Fraser, fees were increased from 48,750 to 70,000 for 2007 and the senior Non-executive, Viscount Asquith, fees were increased from 45,000 to 50,000.
Annual bonus payments are in respect of the 2007 Annual Bonus Awards paid in 2008.
These totals are shown in sterling for information purposes only.
Sterling is the currency in which remuneration payments are made to the Directors.
Following the resignation of Mr R N Dall the Remuneration Committee determined, as permitted by the share option scheme rules, that all his options would be become exercisable in full.
His options were then exercised on the above dates.
There have been no significant variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share options during the financial year.
The performance criteria for the 2001 Share Option Scheme is stated above.
The market price of a JKX share at 31 December 2007 was 400.00 pence, and the range during the year was 255.25 pence to 401.50 pence.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 2 April 2008 and signed on its behalf by Viscount Asquith.
Viscount Asquith Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2 April 2008 50 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007
