Governance Independent remuneration report review This letter contains the findings and conclusions We are satisfied that the Committee from our review of the processes followed by challenges the proposals put forward by Anglo Americans Remuneration Committee executive management and adopts a rigorous the Committee during 2007.
The review was and robust approach to decision making.
undertaken at the request of the Chairman of We are also satisfied that the Committee the Committee in order to provide shareholders seeks the advice of external consultants on with assurance that the processes followed by technical issues where appropriate and gives the Committee supported the policy stated in careful consideration to the information and Anglo Americans Remuneration Report.
recommendations that it receives, before It is our view that the processes followed by reaching an informed decision.
the Committee during 2007 fully supported the Companys remuneration policy.
Please find Conclusions below a description of the process that we On the basis of the document review referred to followed in coming to our conclusion, along with above and the interviews with the Chairman our detailed observations and and Secretary of the Committee, we are recommendations.
comfortable that the Committee has discharged its duties in line with the Principles of Executive Review process Remuneration stated in Anglo Americans In order to reach our view we undertook the Annual Report.
following: As noted in previous years we consider that a review of the Committees terms of the members of the Committee are an effective reference: and cohesive team and that the Committee is an a review of the minutes of the Committee exemplar of best practice.
We understand that covering the period from January to December in order to maintain this high standard 2007: consideration is being given to refreshing the a review of any briefing materials prepared for membership of the Committee in line with the the Committee during the year: requirements of the Combined Code.
an interview with Chris Corrin in his capacity Further detail regarding the Mercer Review as Secretary to the Committee: and is included in a letter of this date addressed to an interview with the Chairman of the the Committee Chairman which we understand Committee.
will be made available on the Companys website.
Findings The Committee comprises entirely independent Yours sincerely, non-executive directors.
It met formally on four occasions in 2007.
Mark Hoble We reviewed the minutes of each meeting Principal along with any supporting papers or Mercer Limited documentation that was tabled.
We found that Tower Place the decisions taken by the Committee were in London EC3R 5BU line with Anglo Americans stated remuneration policy, namely that levels of reward, whilst 7 February 2008 competitive, require demanding performance conditions to be met which are consistent with shareholder interests.
We are satisfied that the Committee closely adheres to the stated policy of setting base pay levels at the median of comparable companies, that at least 50% of remuneration for the executive directors is performance-related and that variable pay is consistent with business performance, market conditions and retention of talent.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 83
