Melrose Industries PLC 6 Annual Report 2012 Group operations Melrose operates internationally and this has been further enhanced by the acquisition of Elster in August 2012.
Elster has its key manufacturing facilities in Europe, North America and South America, together with a presence in the Far East, South Africa and Australia.
Maps showing the Groups key worldwide locations can be seen on pages 8 to 11.
Group Revenue Revenue The Melrose Group is split into four distinct divisions: Energy, Lifting, Group Other Industrial and Elster.
Revenue by division during the last three years is shown in the graphs below.
1,551.4m 2010 2011 2012 2012 Revenue from Revenue from Energy Lifting 524.4m 486.8m 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Revenue from Revenue from Other Industrial Elster 4 months 2 411.1m 129.1m 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 1 Restated to include the results of MPC within discontinued operations.
2 Relates to Elster for the four month period from acquisition to 31 December 2012.
3 Relates to existing Melrose for the year ended 31 December 2012.
net Stock code: MRO 7 Areas of operation Pictured: Bridon manufactured over 100 tonnes of stainless steel Dyform cable assemblies for the New Doha International Airport, Qatar.
Bridons products were used Pictured: Generator rotor on an overspeed test within the upgrade balance tunnel at for a variety of structures within the airport and helped to form the sail shade design the Brush facility in the Czech Republic.
which limit the effects of the intense summer temperatures.
Energy Lifting t Brush Turbogenerators has European facilities based in the UK, the t Bridons European manufacturing facilities are based in the UK and Netherlands and the Czech Republic.
This business also has key Germany.
A total of 20 million has also recently been invested in a manufacturing locations in the US.
Hawker Siddeley Switchgear new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility near Newcastle upon Tyne, manufacture its products in South Wales, UK and also has smaller scale UK, which became operational in November 2012.
Bridon also has operations in Australia.
manufacturing facilities in the US and New Zealand, as well as the Far East in Indonesia and China, plus distribution service centres in Brazil, t Marelli has a presence in seven countries, including its key Singapore, Hong Kong and Dubai.
manufacturing facilities in Italy and Malaysia and international sales, service and distribution centres based in Italy, Germany, Malaysia, UK, t Crosbys key US manufacturing locations are based in Oklahoma, Texas USA and South Africa, as well as a branch in Spain.
and Arkansas, with a further site in Ontario, Canada.
It also has facilities in Europe, principally at its factories in Belgium and the UK.
t Both Crosby and Bridon have growth opportunities within South America: sales offices, distribution and service centres and training facilities have recently been established in order to exploit these opportunities.
t Acco has facilities within the US.
Pictured: Smart electricity meters in the process of being quality assured in accordance Pictured: A Harris BSH-30-1223 B-4 guillotine shear, purchased by a customer in with the Measurement Instruments Directive MID at Elsters site in Stafford, UK.
The equipment is used for processing miscellaneous steel scrap, pipe includes verication of the functionality of the electricity meter and communications module.
and selected sections of freight rail cars and ship scrap.
Elster Other Industrial t The Gas business operates from key manufacturing facilities in Europe t Truth operates from its facilities based in Minnesota, US and Ontario, and the US but also has sizeable subsidiary operations in China, Canada.
Further progress has been made in rationalising t Harris is based in Georgia, US and the UK.
the European manufacturing footprint since the acquisition: a number of products previously manufactured in Western Europe have been transferred to the newly extended plant in Slovakia.
t The Electricity business has key production facilities located in Europe, North America and South America.
Since the acquisition, actions have already been taken to streamline the US business, which includes the relocation of all remaining production at the Raleigh, US, facility to Mexico.
t Within the Water business key manufacturing sites are located within the UK, Slovakia and Brazil.
Under Melrose ownership various enhancements were made to the restructuring projects that had originally been announced by Elster in 2011.
These include the closure of underperforming parts of the business in Poland, Colombia and Italy, the cessation of manufacturing mechanical meters in North America and the exit from a significant number of lower margin product lines in Germany.
