MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operating review Facilities Management Our FM division is responsible for Good opportunities delivering the following specialist singleservices, either individually or inexisting markets inmulti-service, bundled contracts: Security: Cleaning: Catering: Document management and reprographics: Reception andbeyond andfront of house: Waste management: Environmental services: Landscaping: Pestcontrol: Disabled access consulting andauditing As the outsourcing market evolves, our business has had to Clients include: remainexible and grow with the market.
We offer the largest range and broadest coverage of facilities andenergy management services inthe UK.
Those services aredelivered through our four operating divisions.
We remain focused on being specialists inevery service thatweprovide, sothatour clients receive the highest quality, whether itis oneor100things we do for them.
We have continued to win new The demand for integrated facilities management is a key driver businessand have improved our forour business, and these contracts bring together specialist clientretention rate to a very strong 94%.
services from all of our divisions.
We have performed particularly well inthe financial services, transport andretail sectors, where wesee significant opportunities.
Our investments in customer service remain a key differentiator.
In our cleaning and environmental services business, we have a Lean Six Sigma team which is helping to make our processes more efficient.
Our Total Divisional performance summary Security Management business has Facilities Management added new service lines such as 2012 2011 Growth employee screening, electronic Revenue 937.3m 882.2m 6.2% lockingand unlocking and lone worker Operating profit before other items 61.9m 56.2m 10.1% monitoring and protection.
Having Operating profit margin 6.6% 6.4% 0.2pp successfully positioned the business as Order book 4.9bn 4.1bn 19.5% arisk-based security provider, we are increasingly working with our clients to Technical Facilities Management consult on their enterprise wide security 2012 2011 Growth risk incorporating technology, remote Revenue 472.8m 437.1m 8.2% monitoring and manned guarding into Operating profit before other items 26.9m 24.6m 9.3% aholistic solution.
Operating profit margin 5.7% 5.6% 0.1pp We are differentiated by our ability to Order book 2.1bn 1.4bn 50.0% self-deliver the majority of FM services, and always look at adding new services Property Management to our portfolio and develop our existing 2012 2011 Growth businesses.
Our size, scale, high street Revenue 524.3m 509.7m 2.9% and national presence and broad Operating profit before other items 20.2m 21.4m -5.6% range of services enables us to deliver Operating profit margin 3.9% 4.2% -0.3pp Order book 1.4bn 1.2bn 16.7% substantial cost savings andsustainable, innovative solutions toorganisations of all sizes.
Asset Management 2012 2011 Growth Revenue 68.1m 62.4m 9.1% Operating profit before other items 2.7m 2.0m 35.0% Operating profit margin 4.0% 3.2% 0.8pp Order book 0.2bn 0.1bn 100.0% 30 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Technical Facilities Management Property Management Asset Management Our TFM division focuses on Our PM division provides a full Our AM division deploys efficient deliveringintegrated facilities suiteofproject management technologies to develop secure management and a range of andpropertyservices: andsustainable decentralised technicaland energy services: energyinfrastructure: Property maintenance: Building refurbishment: Interior t-out: Insurance claims validation Energy management: Mechanical and Energy centre development: Low-carbon andrepairs: Roong: Plumbing and heating:  maintenance: datacentre development: Renewable Mechanical and electrical engineering Nationalmobile services: Specialist technical energygeneration: Energy servicescompany contracting: Plastering and dry-lining: services: CarbonCare energy services: management: : Paintingand repairs: Fire protection: Lightingdesign, projects and maintenance: Energyperformance contracting Residentialand newhouse t-out Building management systems and controls Clients include: Clients include: Clients include: Energy reduction is one of the Several of the services provided by We are now an established investor in keydrivers of MITIEs growth.
theProperty Management division and developer of decentralised energy OurCarbonCare offering forms a areexposed to highly cyclical markets assets and strategies.
In a market which fundamental part of MITIEs overall and face ongoing challenges as still offers significant potential for future energy services capabilities and has aresultof the difficult economic growth, our clients are reaping the helped successfully establish MITIE environment in the UK.
economic, social and environmental asaleading energy services business.
Our Built Environment business Asignicant number of CarbonCare Theability to achieve sustainability providesmechanical and electrical services are provided byTFM and this targets whilst retaining funding for core engineering contracting services has been further strengthened by services, and without upfront capital alongwith interior t-out, combining theacquisition of Utilyx.
The ongoing investment, isa compelling argument aconsult and build solution that gives demand in this areaisdriving continued inthe current economic climate.
clients assurance ofcosts and strong performance within TFM.
We are currently working on major The market move towards integrated decentralised energy projects, Our social housing business is FMisalso a major driver for TFM as the operatingan end-to-end service developing well, with an integrated technical maintenance of critical fromthe design and development of property maintenance solution which infrastructure for our clients is key to their energy assets and strategies through provides consistency, stability and operations.
Consequently, our technical tothe longer term operation of them.
expertise underpins the overall Wecontinue to see opportunities integrated FM offering and the delivery The focus for our niche businesses inthedata centre market and have of these contracts is undertaken andprojects will remain on providing completed several major data centre predominantly through our TFM division.
core trades for both xed-term and projects during the year.
one-off projects as well as working with We have made further investments in We are recognised as one of the few other parts of MITIE on multi-discipline our national mobile services offering, providers in the UK that has the track projectwork.
which delivers a fast and responsive record, scale and expertise to deliver mobile technical FM service across substantial decentralised energy theUK and is developing well.
We have strategies that will guarantee availability also been working with leading lighting over a sustained contract term.
manufacturers to create a new service model that embraces the initial design ofLED installations, LED retro-t projects capability and ongoing support for LEDinstallations.
The growth of cloud computing and increase in dataintensive sites is also providing significant opportunities to monitor and maintain this plant and equipment.
31 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 125 Old Broad Street 125 Old Broad Street is a 26 oor tower in the heart of the square mile in the City of London.
The team prides itself on its exceptional service whilst managing a busy complex, delivering security personnel, access and egress control and front of house concierge.
25 #15 25 #17 25 #16 32 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operations in Norway 25 #18 33 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 #19 34 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Ministry of Justice MITIE was awarded two contracts with the Ministry of Justice MoJ in October 2011, following its appointment to the MoJs Total Facilities Management Framework in September 2011.
The total facilities management contracts are for Her Majestys Courts and Tribunal Service HMCTS in the South of England, and for two prisons, Brixton and Isis.
Thisis the most that could have been awarded to MITIE through this tender process.
25 #20 Overview of services provided A focus on justice The contracts are for fully integrated MITIE has made significant investments Supporting facilities management and in the justice sector, focusing solely commenced in February.
They onopportunities with the MoJ, the UK the Ministry encompass security, cleaning, Border Agency and the police market.
The contract to provide total facilities ofJustice across management for the courts in the South of England is MITIEs most strategically its estate important with the Government and isalso its largest in the public sector.
Wehave a long track-record of supporting the MoJ and its estate andlook forward to building on this relationship further in the coming years.
210m minimum contracted revenue over five years 5 year contract with a possible two year extension 35 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 NMK, Norway The Nordic Maritime Competence Centre NMK in Alesund, Norway, is a world-leading marine training centre, which occupies five 2 oorsover 23,000m and accommodates up to900 people.
Delegates from all over the world visit the site every day to attend training courses.
MITIE delivers integrated FM at the facility, aswellas a commercial catering solution that includes a restaurant, coffee bar, hospitality andevent catering.
25 #21 25 #22 36 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 #23 37 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Cumbrian Collaboration During the year we were successful in retaining and expanding a contract to provide integrated facilities management and energy services to the Cumbrian Collaboration.
The Cumbrian Collaboration includes Sellaeld Limited, the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority NDA, Direct Rail Services, Low Level Waste Repository Limited and International Nuclear Services.
25 #24 A growing partnership inCumbria Overview of services provided The expanded contract covers over 500 buildings across a range of sites in the UK, with major activity in Sellaeld, Cumbria and Cheshire.
Over 500 people are employed as part of the contract and the services provided will include: facilities management, building maintenance: security: cleaning: waste management: catering and other FM and energy services.
A long lasting partnership This award builds on MITIEs 11-year relationship with both Sellaeld Limited and the NDA and is a testament to thequality of service and strong healthand safety record that has beendelivered by the MITIE team.
Thecontract was tendered through theGovernment Procurement Service formerly the Office of Government and Commerce Buying Solutions Facilities Management Framework Agreement.
200- 280m total contract value 5 year partnership with a possible twoyearextension 38
