reVieW OF OperatiOnS MOrGan ceraMicS DiViSiOn Business description the technical ceramics Business manufactures Revenue Morgan ceramics comprises two operating application-specific products to customer m Businesses.
technical ceramics provides requirements using a wide range of structural customer-specific components and assemblies ceramics, electro-ceramics and precious 2012 660.5 manufactured from advanced materials, while metals.
Key markets for these products include thermal ceramics is a provider of thermal electronics, aerospace, industrial equipment, 2011 685.2 management solutions for high-temperature healthcare and energy.
609.1 2010 technical ceramics components and as at 31 December 2012 Morgan ceramics assemblies are used in hundreds of highemployed approximately 5,800 people technology application niches, including: worldwide.
the Division is a truly global ceramic cores used in the casting of Divisional EBITA business, with 57 manufacturing sites across turbine blades for aero-engine and m six continents.
it is structured with regional industrial gas turbines.
teams supported by global engineering, Braze alloys, ceramics and sub-assemblies 2012 94.6 marketing, technology, research and used in the manufacture, monitoring and development, strategy and finance functions.
2011 92.7 the Divisions major sites are located in components and sub-assemblies for argentina, australia, Brazil, china, France, a broad range of medical applications, 68.8 2010 Germany, india, italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, including implantable devices, prosthetics, russia, the uK and the uSa.
the Division has surgical and diagnostic equipment.
50 sales offices working directly with end-users ceramics and assemblies for electron and also sells some products through tubes used in a range of medical, security, distribution networks.
industrial and research applications, such as airport security scanners, tV and radio the Divisions engineering and design broadcasting and X-ray equipment.
capabilities are the key to its success.
engineered ceramics for fluid handling Full technical support and advice is offered equipment.
to customers throughout their product piezoelectric ceramic actuators for development cycle, working closely with electronic data storage.
them to understand their needs and provide components and assemblies for lasers engineered solutions that add value and used in product marking, medical and help differentiate their end-products.
the Morgan ceramics business strategy the thermal ceramics Business serves a is aligned with that of the Group, with the broad spectrum of industrial and commercial objective of being a world-leader in engineered markets with insulation requirements ranging solutions based on advanced ceramic and from 500c to 1,600c.
the Divisions strategy is: insulating fibre, insulating bricks and monolithics to focus on market niches where the enable users to optimise thermal efficiency, Divisions distinctive competences and reduce energy costs and improve environmental innovation skills differentiate it.
performance through reduced cO emissions.
2 to structure the Divisions businesses for the Business also provides passive fire simplicity and high levels of accountability.
protection for the transportation, industrial to drive operational excellence in all of and construction sectors.
to actively manage the Divisions portfolio products are manufactured from advanced to achieve optimum shareholder returns.
insulating materials marketed under a number to develop the Divisions leaders, teams of leading brands, including Superwool, JM, and technical talent to deliver its strategy.
they are used worldwide in demanding applications, which are increasingly influenced by legislative and environmental requirements.
Major markets include petrochemical, iron and steel and industrial equipment.
10 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Market sectors precision engineered materials, components Morgan ceramics is at the forefront of Industrial and assemblies from Morgan ceramics are improving security systems at border controls.
in the industrial sector, Morgan ceramics used in instrumentation and control systems, its custom ceramic and metal assemblies products contribute to improved process engine monitoring, guidance systems and are used to improve the image resolution of efficiency, productivity and reduced waste satellite positioning equipment.
the Divisions luggage and cargo scanners and its Diamonex and environmental impact.
ceramic cores are used to form the cooling diamond-like-carbon coatings are used in paths in aerospace engine turbine blades and fingerprint swipe sensors.
Morgan ceramics advanced ceramic its specialist braze alloys are used extensively materials offer an exceptionally wide range in aero-engine manufacture and repair.
Petrochemical of characteristics, including superior insulating piezoceramics are used in gyroscopes and fuel Morgan ceramics provides precisionproperties, dimensional stability, strength and level sensors: for example, every Boeing 777 engineered materials, components and stiffness.
the resistance of these materials aircraft is fitted with more than 50 of its assemblies for the global petrochemical to chemical and physical wear, corrosion ultrasonic fuel level sensors.
the resistance of its materials to and extreme heat makes them ideally suited chemical and physical wear, corrosion and for use in harsh industrial processing and Morgan ceramics ceramic materials offer extreme heat makes them ideally suited for demanding manufacturing environments.
a combination of physical properties, which use in challenging applications and harsh makes them an attractive and cost-effective processing environments.
For example, nilcra magnesia partiallyoption for designers of transportation systems stabilised zirconia MgO pSZ is the material including road, rail, marine and aircraft, and its the Division supplies heat management of choice for a wide range of applications from thermal management products are used widely systems with insulation requirements ranging severe service valves and pumps, to tooling in fire protection and suppression applications.
from 500c to 1,600c, for fired heaters, for battery and steel can production.
Morgan ethylene crackers, reformers, sulphur recovery ceramics high-temperature components Security & Defence units, fluid catalytic cracking units and boilers.
are used in industrial annealing and in the Morgan ceramics has provided precisionmanufacture of medical devices.
the Division engineered materials, components and Morgan ceramics products enable users to supplies ceramic membranes for efficient assemblies to meet the exacting standards of optimise thermal efficiency, reduce energy industrial water filtration and purification, the international defence and security markets costs and improve environmental performance helping businesses in that sector to reduce for several decades.
From military hardware through reduced cO emissions.
its FireMaster 2 maintenance and save energy.
to surveillance equipment and armour for fire protection systems offer proven fire personnel and vehicle protection, its superior protection performance, certified to national insulating products from Morgan ceramics materials technology and impressive and international standards.
allow manufacturers to control a variety manufacturing capability deliver real of thermal processing operations, thereby performance benefits in the field.
the Division makes a range of parts and optimising throughput and yields.
it supplies sub-assemblies for use in processing monolithic linings for blast furnaces and fibre the Divisions piezoceramic components hydrocarbons, including specialist valves, modules and firebricks for heat treatment are highly versatile, stable and durable, even in pumps, seals and bearings.
its fire protection products are used challenging operating conditions, making them ceramic materials provide a level of precision in a range of infrastructure projects including ideal for use in custom sensor and transducer and reliability equally suited to the demanding sea defences, offshore oil and gas platforms systems.
the Division is a major supplier to requirements of drilling and refining.
the manufacturers of power tubes used in example, nilcra zirconia components extend image intensifiers, electronic counter-measures the serviceability of valves and pumps and Transportation and communications equipment.
Deranox 975 alumina is used in the harsh Morgan ceramics offers a wide range environment of the hydrocyclone, where of products for many different transport Morgan ceramics materials are used sand and other solids are separated from applications.
the Division has been meeting extensively for protection of personnel and the hydrocarbon stream, helping to protect the exacting needs and demanding application vehicles in armour systems that are designed and increase the lifetime of sensitive requirements of the aerospace and automotive to meet the classified ballistic performance processing instrumentation and heat industries for more than 50 years.
its ceramic requirements of each individual customer.
and brazed assemblies improve the efficiency the Division also makes lightweight, heavy and reliability of its customers products.
duty fire protection systems for commercial it produces ceramic components, sensors and naval vessels: the FireMaster system and brazed assemblies to tight specifications in is certified to meet most national and quantities from one-offs and small production international military standards.
Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 11 reVieW OF OperatiOnS continued MOrGan ceraMicS DiViSiOn continued Electronics Energy the Divisions broad medical engineering Morgan ceramics capabilities in precision energy generation, management and expertise encompasses ceramic orthopaedic engineering are increasingly being specified distribution is arguably one of the fastest joint replacements, precision engineered to meet the needs of niche applications across evolving industries of modern times.
Morgan ceramic parts for cancer treatment, the electronics sector.
the Division supports ceramics components and sub-assemblies blood and cellular analysis systems, along designers and manufacturers of electronic are widely used in a variety of systems that with specialised ceramic-to-metal assemblies equipment in their drive towards higher generate and distribute power from both for implantable devices such as pacemakers, performance and reliability in smaller, lighter renewable and traditional sources.
speech valves, cochlear implants, defibrillators and more robust products.
Morgan ceramics the Division has a broad range of dielectric piezoelectric components are used extensively Morgan ceramics piezoceramic components materials and high quality capacitance solutions in medical ultrasound applications and in pumps are highly versatile, durable and stable with for high voltage systems, and its piezo materials for drug delivery.
excellent electrical and thermal properties.
are key components in a number of energyit makes actuators for high-capacity hard disk harvesting applications.
the Divisions superior materials display drive HDD data storage which enable the industry-leading electrical and mechanical head to be positioned with extraordinary it makes products that are used in the properties enabling design of high-efficiency accuracy and vibration control, ceramic manufacture of thin-film photovoltaic cells for medical tools such as ultrasonic dental formers for wire-wound radio frequency rF the solar industry and cores for industrial gas descalers, ultrasonic scalpels and tumour inductors for mobile phones, laptops, turbine blades.
its ceramic live line indicators ablation tips.
high definition televisions, lighting controls, are used in high voltage Dc power distribution sensors and wireless devices.
applications all over the world.
Morgan ceramics applications engineering expertise is second to none and its specialist Dielectric materials from Morgan ceramics Morgan ceramics high-performance insulating manufacturing facilities aid the evolution of key offer high-quality capacitance solutions products enable users to reduce their energy components in instrumentation and diagnostic for applications from laser instrumentation costs and improve their environmental equipment such as ultrasonic imaging, to microwave and high-voltage systems.
the Divisions high-temperature X-ray, cat and Mri scanners.
its superior its high-purity alumina ceramic is used insulating fibre, bricks and monolithics are piezoelectric ceramic components are used extensively for waveguides in cO lasers used to optimise thermal efficiency in industrial extensively in medical ultrasound to enable 2 and insulators in excimer lasers that function applications with operating temperatures from increased image resolution, while its nonin harsh environments and it is a major 500c to 1,600c.
latest-generation low magnetic, temperature stable dielectric supplier of components for electron tubes bio-persistent Superwool plus fibre is used materials are being used more extensively used in communications, signalling and in duct and chimney insulation, process heater in next generation Mri systems.
linings, pipe wrap and automotive exhaust heat shields where its exceptionally low Research and development Morgan ceramics produces a wide range thermal conductivity allows engineers to research and development capabilities are of standard and specialised components specify a significantly thinner blanket to achieve led by a technical Director for each Business, and assemblies including metallised parts the same level of insulation.
overseeing a network of materials scientists and ceramic-to-metal sub-assemblies.
the and applications and process engineers across Divisions specialised manufacturing capabilities Healthcare the Divisions global sites.
they work with allow it to produce high-quality electronic Morgan ceramics is an innovative customers to engineer solutions that address components cost-effectively in high-volume.
manufacturer of ceramic implants, components the customers needs.
the Division also and complex assemblies for a wide range undertakes research in collaboration of medical devices.
its high-quality ceramics with leading universities in europe and can be found in surgical tools, medical north america.
instrumentation, therapeutic and diagnostic equipment.
its materials are favoured by recent developments have focused on equipment manufacturers and medical products for the medical, transportation professionals for their exceptional physical and energy markets.
is driven by the customers end-application.
an increased emphasis on the development of new fire protection systems shows excellent promise for future growth.
12 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements the majority of the Divisions research and Business developments Work in the technical ceramics Business development into thermal management in 2012 major investments were focused on focused on moving towards newer, more solutions is carried out at the Divisions the Superwool fibre programme and the differentiated products that will continue to Bromborough, uK site in a purpose-built conversion of existing refractory ceramic fibre drive positive mix shift.
this was achieved world-class facility.
With 25 dedicated scientists, rcF capacity.
Significant investment in both by increasing the number of new business the team has led the market in the equipment and people continued to be made projects in higher margin, high value-added development of low bio-persistent fibres, in the dynamic asian and South american end-markets such as healthcare and aerospace, low-energy furnace operation and product markets.
capital was invested in Kailong, whilst continuing to reduce exposure to more development.
the role of low bio-persistent china, and Daegu, Korea to increase fibre commoditised and economically cyclical fibres is seen as being of increasing importance capacity and the thermal insulation product product areas.
in the future of the high-temperature insulation range.
the Division received approval from the market and so research and development Board for a new fibre plant in the Middle east, the Operational excellence programme has activities have been directed towards extending which is becoming an attractive and rapidly now been firmly embedded across the whole the Divisions product range in this area.
it involves benchmarking projects investments were made to extend existing that have accountability and responsibility research into manufacturing processes has brazing capability in the Hayward california at plant level, and it delivered year-on-year produced new generation fibre products with facility.
a ceramic grinding facility was improvements in operational efficiency.
low bio-persistent fibre established in yixing, china and in the these locally based and managed initiatives technology, for use in automotive catalytic uSa capacity was increased for making continue to be co-ordinated and supported converters, has been developed and patented.
cVD Diamond coatings for the growing by engineering and research and development a major focus for the Division is on asian semiconductor equipment market.
personnel to optimise manufacturing recruitment of high-calibre material scientists processes.
and engineers to provide the talent and resources and capabilities in asia and South resources that the Division requires to fuel the america were further developed and added the continuous operational improvement growth from these exciting expanding markets.
to, resulting in a number of positive enquiries programmes, cost reduction initiatives and being generated.
these are now making their emphasis on positive price pass-through Business performance way into commercial plans.
have all helped to deliver the margin growth the ceramics Division produced a good year achieved in 2012 and are expected to continue in 2012, particularly when the more difficult the thermal ceramics Business made good to contribute in 2013 and beyond.
progress with continued roll-out of highrevenue in the Morgan ceramics Division temperature insulation products.
these include Outlook was 660.5 million 2011: 685.2 million, a range of differentiated and patent-protected Following the decline in market demand in representing a decrease at reported rates products based on a range of Superwool the second half of 2012, entering 2013 the of 3.6%.
at constant currency the decrease chemistries.
Good progress was made in the orderbooks for both technical and thermal in revenue was 1.9%.
engineering business, which takes Morgan ceramics appear to have stabilised.
there ceramics products, and through applications remain weaker areas such as the construction revenue for the technical ceramics Business engineering, adds value to give customers market in europe and whilst quotation levels in 2012 was 273.3 million 2011: 285.1 a package design that will give them a more for engineering projects in thermal ceramics million, a decrease of 4.1% at reported rates.
energy efficient and safer operating solution.
are strong, the speed of conversion is slower revenue was down by 4.0% on a constant typical applications are found in the chemical than expected.
thermal ceramics revenue processing, aluminium, iron and steel and decreased by 3.2% to 387.2 million in 2012 passive fire protection industries.
new product Both Businesses are continuing to pursue new 2011: 400.1 million.
On a constant currency development in the thermal ceramics business opportunities and increase their share basis, the year-on-year decrease was 0.4%.
Business remains concentrated in the field of of customer spend in 2013 which, along with a low bio-persistent fibre where the Business number of the Superwool capital investments For technical ceramics, Divisional eBita continues to develop even higher temperature coming fully on line during the year, should was 42.7 million 2011: 43.1 million.
leave them well placed to improve performance technical ceramics raised its eBita margin in 2013 and beyond.
by 50 basis points, reaching 15.6% for the year 2011: 15.1%.
thermal ceramics Divisional eBita increased in the year to 51.9 million 2011: 49.6 million.
the eBita margin for thermal ceramics increased by 100 basis points to 13.4% 2011: 12.4%.
Overall the ceramics Divisional eBita margin showed good improvement to 14.3% 2011: 13.5%.
Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 13 reVieW OF OperatiOnS continued MOrGan enGineereD MaterialS DiViSiOn Business description the Divisions strategy aligns with the Groups Revenue the businesses within the Morgan engineered strategic priorities and has fostered success in m Materials Division deliver highly engineered the ballistic protection market and entry into solutions across the world from a portfolio the silicon solar cell, sapphire leD and lithium 2012 347.0 of advanced material technologies that include ion anode markets.
Specifically, the Divisions carbon, silicon carbide, oxide-based ceramics strategy is to: 2011 415.8 and advanced polymeric composites.
the add value to advanced materials and Divisions footprint provides a global reach technology to deliver engineered solutions 408.0 2010 that enables the delivery of market-leading to chosen markets.
solutions to a variety of chosen end-markets.
engender a culture of operational these chosen end-markets are served excellence with a focus on continually through global businesses: Morgan advanced improving the value the Division delivers Divisional EBITA Materials & technology Morgan aM&t, to its customers.
m np aerospace and Molten Metal Systems establish and fully embed a mindset MMS.
For reporting purposes the Division for growth through focused business 2012 32.5 consists of two global reporting segments: development, specifically in high-growth Morgan aM&t including np aerospace and high-margin markets.
2011 55.7 and Molten Metal Systems MMS.
invest in its future through its technology centres of excellence and through 2010 45.5 the Divisions capabilities are rooted in the acquisitions, alliances and partnerships.
understanding, application and processing of Fully engage its entire workforce and its broad range of advanced materials.
today instil a culture of continuous re-invention.
the engineered Materials Division has strong continuously recruit and develop the positions in carbon brushes for industrial and right people.
rail traction applications, seals and bearings for fluid handling, crucibles for the processing the Divisions global businesses go to of non-ferrous metals, high-temperature market through channels that include insulation for silicon solar wafer production and both direct sales and distributor networks.
sapphire crystal substrates for leDs, advanced Morgan aM&t primarily uses direct sales lightweight protective ceramic composite channels complemented by strategic armour systems and graphite materials for distribution partners, who serve both the lithium ion batteries.
original equipment market and the aftermarket and are supported by a global network of as at 31 December 2012 the Division applications engineers.
np aerospace uses employed approximately 4,000 people, serving direct channels to serve major militaries and customers in around 100 countries worldwide.
vehicle original equipment manufacturers its global presence includes 40 operating OeMs, while MMS leverages an effective facilities in 25 countries, with major materials global network of independent distributors to processing plants in the uSa, europe, serve the global non-ferrous metals industry.
South america and asia feeding an integrated the Division is strategically positioned to network of finishing plants.
the Division ensure that the best possible resource is benefits from a strategically located low-cost deployed to provide advanced materials manufacturing base, with sites in Mexico, and technologies in the form of engineered china, Hungary and india that allows the solutions to its key global markets.
Division to serve customers across the globe.
14 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Market sectors in light rail systems, Morgan engineered the Divisions rotary transfer products are Industrial Materials advanced composite technology is specified for their high reliability for use in Morgan engineered Materials products are chosen for its combination of structural integrity military vehicles operating in the harshest used in a wide range of industrial equipment.
and light weight, which helps to save energy conditions.
examples include tank turret they help manufacturers of non-ferrous and provides better wear performance for systems, specialist robotic mine detectors metallurgy, steel, paper, cement, chemicals, longer life.
pharmaceuticals and food to improve the efficiency of their processes.
the Divisions carbon and graphite Petrochemical components are used in commercial airlines, Morgan engineered Materials makes critical the Divisions high-quality carbon brushes, military aircraft and helicopters and it makes components for fluid flow handling applications linear collectors and rotary current transfer jet engine main shaft bearing seals, electrical in the petrochemical industry, including products help to maximise equipment brushes for alternators and generators, seal faces, bearings, rotors and vanes.
performance, extend system life and bearings for fuel pumps and high temperature its leading-edge materials offer excellent optimise energy efficiency, thereby reducing carbon fabrics for insulating systems.
its wear characteristics for the most extreme maintenance and operating costs.
materials are used where reliability is critical environments, contributing to the safety and high-performance paramount, such as and efficiency in oil and gas extraction its carbon and graphite insulation materials in-flight refuelling at high altitude.
and machined graphite products are used to support specialist processes in demanding the Division supplies graphite anode materials Morgan engineered Materials carbon high-temperature environments where their for lithium ion batteries used in electric vehicles and silicon carbide materials are used to purity and structural characteristics are critical and is currently working with a number of manufacture the high-performance seals to achieving the required process quality.
world-leading partners to develop new and bearings that play a vital role in minimising materials for this sector.
fugitive gas and product vapour emissions in the mining industry, severe and changeable from valves, pumps, compressors and other operating loads and high levels of vibration Security & Defence pressurised equipment.
the engineered make considerable demands on the electrical Morgan engineered Materials is a global leader topography in its seal components can reduce performance of heavy machinery.
Morgan in lightweight armour systems for the effective leakage rates in critical applications by as much engineered Materials superior advanced protection of people and property.
brush material technology has facilitated reliable equipment operation in the harshest the Division has an unparalleled record in the Divisions capability for precision machining and deepest mines in the world.
rapid fielding of new equipment in support of silicon carbide composite mechanical seals of a range of defence programmes.
it is a produces products that allow operators to Morgan engineered Materials advanced critical resource supplier to the uK Ministry work at elevated contact pressures, crucible technology is helping to improve the of Defence and has supplied tactical wheeled dramatically reducing interface leakage in efficiency of energy-intensive melting processes vehicles and equipment for use in iraq and demanding conditions.
used in metal casting, through increased afghanistan.
it is designated a tier 2 supplier strength and longer life.
of ceramic body armour plates to the Wear resistance is increasingly important uS Department of Defense.
in the design and operation of pumps and the Divisions crucibles are used all over the bearings for the petrochemical industry, where world in foundries, die-casters and metal the Divisions caMac vehicle armour advanced materials are used to help reduce melting facilities working with zinc, precious combines advanced ceramics with highfailure rates, warranty costs and downtime.
metals, aluminium, copper, brass, bronze technology composites.
its systems are Morgan engineered Materials is working on and other non-ferrous materials.
typically 40% of the weight of the equivalent next-generation materials with improved in armoured steel, making them easier, faster performance characteristics.
For example, Transportation and more cost-effective to deploy.
they also its patented silicon carbide and graphite Morgan engineered Materials supplies key demonstrate higher ballistic performance.
composite reduces friction for longer life, components for rail, road and aerospace better reliability and energy efficiency.
Morgan engineered Materials provides comprehensive fleet management and support its specialist materials technologies deliver services for defence and security vehicles from long-life performance for rail networks all over design of the armour system to manufacture, the world, even those operating in extreme installation and spares provisioning.
it also environments such as very high-speed trains repairs and refurbishes vehicles in theatre and long haul freight passing through widely or upon return.
carbon brushes, commutation system components, earthing brushes, third rail and pantograph collectors are custom built and tested to meet individual rail network requirements.
Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 15 reVieW OF OperatiOnS continued MOrGan enGineereD MaterialS DiViSiOn continued Electronics World-renowned for performance and Silicon carbide and carbon are used in Morgan engineered Materials is playing a key role reliability, the Divisions brush technology advanced oxygen concentration units in helping the electronics industry to achieve is used in coal, gas, nuclear and wind power that provide relief to patients suffering from its own demanding performance targets.
plants all over the world and is at the heart chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, such of electricity storage and distribution systems as emphysema and chronic bronchitis, that as semiconductor manufacturers continue for applications from rail transport to electric cause airflow blockage and breathing-related the drive for smaller, faster integrated circuits vehicles.
its molten metal crucible technology problems.
Morgan engineered Materials that are less expensive to make, so processing is recognised as the most energy-efficient components are part of a rotary valve that equipment is increasingly dependent on way to melt non-ferrous materials and extracts more than 95% pure oxygen from advanced materials to achieve the desired is used extensively in the manufacture the environment.
For example, use of advanced of copper components for electricity carbon technology in the silicon wafer tool transmission systems.
the Divisions electrical rotary transfer helps to achieve the required purity and products are used widely in medical analysis process temperatures.
Morgan engineered Materials helps the worlds equipment from endoscopes to cct and leading producers of poly-silicon and silicon Mrt scanners.
Morgan engineered Materials manufactures the ingots to enhance solar cell performance.
its highest purity and controlled microstructure advanced insulation materials help to control Research and development materials in the world and has enabled yield the silicon melting process, optimising energy the Businesses within the engineered Materials and process improvements in specialised efficiency and reducing contamination, for Division are leaders in carbon-based materials, semiconductor and leD substrate fabrication more efficient photovoltaics.
oxide and non-oxide ceramics, lightweight processes, including ion implantation, epitaxy composites, and in ballistics and blast and compound crystal growth.
the Division the Divisions graphite materials are used technology.
the Divisions research activities offers a state-of-the-art purification capability to make anodes for lithium-ion batteries for include material and process capabilities as and is working with leading equipment portable electronic devices, electric vehicles well as product and systems development.
manufacturers to develop and incorporate and grid energy storage and its carbon brushes these activities are located within the major new materials that will allow them to meet and rotary transfer systems, designed to material processing facilities in the uSa, the uK the needs of the semiconductor and perform in the harshest environments, and china.
the Divisions Businesses deploy leD industries.
are used widely in wind power installations.
application engineers worldwide to work with customers in applying advanced materials advanced materials that the Division has Healthcare and technologies to develop leading-edge engineered for applications in this sector allow Morgan engineered Materials supplies specialist engineered solutions according to customer manufacturers to work at higher temperatures components for niche markets in healthcare need, with a focus to position each Business with greater energy efficiency and reduced diagnostic equipment.
as leaders in dynamic growth markets.
risk of contamination for a step-change in process performance.
this has enabled the Divisions advanced carbon fibre Business performance the manufacture of new products, including composites are used as a strong, lightweight revenue in the engineered Materials Division integrated circuits, leD devices and very structural frames for an advanced technology was 347.0 million 2011: 415.8 million, fine optical fibres.
X-ray treatment couch, used in oncology.
the representing a decrease at reported rates components help to ensure that patients are of 16.5%.
at constant currency this decrease Energy positioned correctly for optimum treatment, in revenue was 15.2%.
the revenue of Morgan engineered Materials components higher image quality and lower X-ray doses.
Morgan aM&t excluding np aerospace play a critical role in traditional and renewable the material enhances resolution diagnostics was 243.4 million 2011: 276.1 million power generation and throughout the thanks to its high X-ray transparency.
representing a decrease of 11.9% at reported electricity supply chain.
its materials technology rates and 10.6% on a constant currency basis.
allows more efficient use of energy in a wide its graphite material is used in the case and np aerospace revenue was 57.8 million variety of industries by reducing friction, graphite layer of a sophisticated ultrasonic 2011: 93.0 million, a decline of 37.8%.
providing better insulation and enabling diagnostic probe.
it has developed a range MMS revenue was 45.8 million 2011: new technologies.
of highly engineered, ultra-thin components 46.7 million, a decrease of 1.9% at reported to enable more accurate, higher resolution rates, but an increase of 4.8% on a constant and reliable ultrasound imagery.
16 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Divisional eBita for the engineered Materials the Business reacted to the reduced volumes the MMS Business continued to perform well Division was 32.5 million 2011: 55.7 by making significant headcount and cost with revenue growth at constant currency rates million, a margin of 9.4% 2011: 13.4%.
reductions across the globe, including the and margin improvements as global demand Morgan aM&t eBita margin excluding closure or downsizing of a number of sites, for non-ferrous castings continued to increase, np aerospace was 8.5% 2011: 12.7%, particularly in continental europe.
in part driven by increasing demand from the np aerospace was 6.2% 2011: 14.0% automotive sector.
Despite the challenges presented by slowing north america and the Far east more than industrial markets and virtually stalled renewable offset a decline in demand from europe.
the Business developments energy markets, the Business continued to Business continues to benefit from its low-cost the deterioration in the Morgan aM&t invest selectively in technology, in expanding manufacturing footprint, strong market presence excluding np aerospace performance in its low-cost manufacturing capability, and in in dynamic growth markets, and continued 2012 reflects the softening in a number of the Businesss overall capability in china, progress in driving operational excellence.
end-markets globally but most acutely in china in order to continue to advance its ability where the Business had experienced significant to compete in its markets.
Outlook growth in recent years.
the slowing of this entering 2013, Morgan aM&ts order book dynamic growth economy, the sharp decline revenue in np aerospace was 57.8 million.
continues to reflect softness in demand from of high-margin renewable energy markets plus the reduction in sales reflected the continued most sectors and geographies, although the fall in uS armour revenue were the main reduction in urgent Operational requirements demand appears to have stabilised towards the reasons for the weaker results in the year.
demand from the uK Ministry of Defence end of 2012.
Demand from the solar sector is MoD for tactical wheeled vehicles.
expected to remain depressed at least until the Demand for electrical products across all np aerospace margin was impacted in 2012, second half of the year, while demand from regions began to soften in the second quarter particularly in the second half, by vehicle chinas wind sector is expected to improve and continued through the rest of the year.
contract closures resulting in both settlements from a low base through the course of 2013.
Seal and bearing demand, driven by weakening with the MoD and prudent assessments of the Business is also pursuing a number of uS economies in the uS and in europe, began inventory remaining from the long period of body armour contracts that hold promise for to soften in the third quarter and this continued supporting urgent Operational requirements improving revenue in 2013 and beyond.
through much of the second half.
Demand for the MoD in afghanistan.
entering 2013, for renewable and clean energy products fell revenue predictions are stable and the cost np aerospace revenue in 2013 is expected off sharply at the end of the first quarter and base has been right-sized for this level of to be in line with 2012, with lower vehicle remained depressed throughout the year, with revenue.
np aerospace continues to build systems demand from the uK MoD being the largest impacts being a 50% year-on-year a significant pipeline of opportunities both offset by a growth in export sales.
drop in demand for high-temperature through the uSa, focused on key uSa military insulation products and an abrupt decline vehicle OeMs, and through a growing series the outlook for the MMS Business remains of the wind energy market in china.
of export opportunities outside the uK positive with continued sales growth expected and the uSa.
investment in technology has in the dynamic growth markets, particularly revenue from uS body armour declined continued to be a high priority and has yielded china.
the commitment to operational from 2011.
However, good progress was breakthrough developments in lighter weight excellence and market-leading positions made during the year in positioning the personal protection and highly advanced in dynamic growth economies means Business for success in 2013 and beyond.
vehicle armour systems that have the potential MMS is well placed to continue to deliver to generate significant growth in the future.
Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 17
