THE YEAR IN REVIEW Operational Review A healthy pipeline 12 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 of new product introductions is in place and we are investing across the business to increase efficiency, strengthen our market positions and drive further profitable growth We operate in three sectors: fusion energy and high temperature Nanotechnology Tools, Industrial superconductor materials.
This business Products, and Service.
has performed well in the year and is 153.9m now the worlds leading supplier of Sector cryogen-free products.
The Triton NANOTECHNOLOGY TOOLS revenue cryogen-free dilution refrigerator, with 2012 2011 an integrated high-eld superconducting m m magnet, has performed strongly, Revenue 153.9 121.8 V i } segment.
The launch in the year of Operating Mercury, a new electronics system, profit 17.3 14.6 further strengthened our market position The Nanotechnology Tools sector comprises offering intelligent control of cryogenic Nanotechnology Tools our NanoAnalysis, NanoScience, Plasma and magnetic environments.
sales growth Technology and Omicron NanoTechnology businesses.
This sector produces our Our Plasma Technology business provides highest technology products and serves leading-edge tools and processes for the 26.4% research and industrial customers in both fabrication of nanostructures.
Our systems the public and private sectors.
provide process solutions for nanometre layer growth of compound semiconductor Our NanoAnalysis business produces material, etching of nanometre sized leading-edge tools that enable materials features and the controlled growth of characterisation and sample manipulation nanostructures in markets ranging from at the nanometre scale.
Its products are semiconductor electronics, Micro Electro used on electron microscopes and Mechanical Systems MEMS, High ion-beam systems across academic and Brightness LEDs HBLED and photovoltaic industrial applications including devices.
Order intake levels were semiconductors, renewable energy, maintained and the order book is healthy, mining, metallurgy and forensics.
This despite the anticipated weakening in business has produced a strong HBLED capital equipment demand.
As performance across all regions, driven previously reported, sales of equipment to by the launch of AZtec, a revolutionary make HBLEDs declined due to over capacity materials characterisation system.
The in the market but are forecast to pick up integration of Omniprobe Inc, acquired in towards the end of the current financial year June 2011, has enhanced our product as devices for commercial and domestic range with innovative nano-manipulation lighting become more affordable.
In March 2012 we transferred ownership Our NanoScience business is the worlds of TDI, a wholly owned subsidiary which leading supplier of cryogenic systems for develops hydride vapour phase epitaxy  and measurement HVPE technology for use in the at low temperatures and high magnetic production of High Brightness LEDs, elds.
Its technologies are used in to Ostendo, a privately owned company applications such as characterisation of based in California.
This will maximise new materials and devices at the the value from our technology nanoscale, data protection and storage, investment in HVPE.
Benchtop magnetic resonance analyser INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS: Hidden Hunger THE YEAR IN REVIEW 13 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Our Omicron NanoTechnology business Following the acquisitions of Omicron supplies analytical solutions for and Omniprobe, good progress has been nanotechnology R&D, providing made with their integration into the innovative, high performance tools that Group, growing our Nanotechnology offer unique multi-technique systems.
We Tools offering and leveraging sales and are investing in additional R&D, sales and brand synergies.
There has been a trend in the improved our competitive position when market towards much larger integrated bidding for multi-million dollar systems systems from which Omicron is well that contain products from more than placed to benefit.
For example, the recent one of the Nanotechnology Tools launch of Argus, an innovative electron businesses, and we have enjoyed X-Supreme, EDXRF analyser spectrometer, has enabled our research particular success in the fast growing customers to undertake experiments that BRIC territories where brand plays an Billions of people around the world were not previously possible with important role in the selling process.
suffer from hidden hunger or standard detector technology.
We monitor the markets perception of micronutrient malnutrition.
They our performance through solicitation of do not get enough micronutrients regular feedback from our customers.
required to lead healthy productive We quantify this in our Net Promoter Score lives from the foods that they eat.
metric which has improved in the year.
Micronutrients are vitamins and minerals such as vitamin A, zinc, and iron and are essential to good health.
Micronutrient malnutrition can lower ]V i} `L`i children, lower resistance to disease in both children and adults, and increase risks for both mothers and infants during childbirth.
HarvestPlus, a global leader in the development of nutrient-rich crops, was one of the first recipients of funding for funding for research into micronutrients in crops granted by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
HarvestPlus is using Oxford Instruments X-ray Fluorescence XRF X-Supreme analyser in its plant breeding programme to screen whole grain rice sample for concentrations of iron and zinc.
This programme is designed to tackle the hidden hunger by developing nutrient rich grains and cereals.
Use of XRF costs just 2 cents per sample, versus the $20 per sample using other methods of analysis.
THE YEAR IN REVIEW Operational Review continued 14 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS Our Superconducting Wire business is the world leader in the provision of high 2012 2011 performance superconducting wire for 129.1m m m industry and research, spanning markets Sector Revenue 129.1 100.5 that include MRI healthcare, physics revenue Operating research, life sciences, fusion energy and profit 13.8 6.1 particle accelerators.
The core business providing wire for MRI machines The Industrial Products sector contains benefited from robust demand from our Industrial Analysis, Superconducting our major OEM customers.
Following Wire, Austin and Magnetic Resonance the major order received in 2010, a businesses.
This sector supplies analytical further small order for wire for ITER, Industrial Products systems for quality control, environmental the multinational carbon free energy sales growth and compliance testing, and components programme, was received in 2011 and for industry and research.
28.5% Our Industrial Analysis business supplies Our Austin business specialises in high high quality instruments for materials vacuum products, helium gas coolers and identication and thickness gauging services for the semiconductor, research, analysis essential for quality control.
Our life science and energy industries.
It had customers span global industries from a good year driven by demand for its metals, alloy manufacturing, steel products from the solar industry and foundries and scrap recycling through to backed up by its core products and automotive, solar, petrochemicals, services.
A programme of efficiency cement, recycling, and precious metals.
The Performance for this business was very strong performance of this business has strong across all sectors.
Our Optical driven a move to new premises, planned Emission Spectroscopy division performed for 2012. particularly well in Asia and saw orders rise on the back of its recently launched Our Magnetic Resonance business FoundryMaster Xpert tool, specically produces benchtop Nuclear Magnetic designed for the steel industry.
We also Resonance analysers for a broad range launched the XMET7500, a hand held of industries for quality assurance, analyser, delivering high performance and production optimisation and research exibility for the rapid analysis of the applications.
They are used for applications widest variety of materials from metals to in agriculture, food and beverage, textiles, soils.
Sales have exceeded expectations in polymers, petrochemicals and oil and gas all territories.
This business showed a good improvement in our x-ray tube facility in performance and has a secure order book California has led to significant gains in going forward.
It has good profit margins productivity.
In October 2011, we and sales of the recently launched rationalised the industrial product AfrmoEX, the worlds smallest benchtop offering by disposing of a non-core Electron Magnetic Resonance spectrometer product line that we produced for a for industrial, scientific and educational single customer, to that customer.
Oxford Instruments Industrial Analysis Period Table App SERVICE: collaborating to provide successful global seminars THE YEAR IN REVIEW 15 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 56.3m Sector revenue SERVICE where the adoption of a service contract model is gaining greater acceptance 2012 2011 across a growing installed base.
m m Revenue 56.3 42.5 The acquisition of Platinum Medical Service Operating Imaging in November 2011 has also revenues increased profit 11.0 7.4 made a positive contribution to this sector.
Platinum offers third party 32.5% This sector comprises our service, servicing and support to operators support, training, refurbishment, of MRI and CT scanners in North consumables and accessories elements America.
Structural changes in the Oxford Instruments Plasma Technologys of our business.
It consists of our CT and US health care market continue to successful technical seminars and MRI Service business in North America benefit this business.
Recognition of the workshops are organised in and Asia, and the service elements of Oxford Instruments brand has increased collaboration with key customer Nanotechnology Tools and Industrial customer confidence in the Platinum research universities in Europe, Asia and Products sectors.
The business performed offering and helped to further grow the USA.
These events aim to encourage well across all territories, particularly Asia market share in North America.
interest in developments within the industrial and research communities using Plasma and Ion Beam Etch and Deposition process techniques.
The events run worldwide several times per year, co-hosted with prestigious organisations such as the Institute of Science Chinese Academy of Science in Beijing, Lawrence Berkeley National Lab, Caltech and Cornell in the USA, the University of Freiburg Institut fr Mikrosystemtechnik in Germany, the Universities of Southampton and Glasgow in the UK, and Eindhoven University of Technology in the Netherlands.
60100 participants from academia and industry attend each event, enhancing Oxford Instruments relationship with these institutes, and its standing in the industry.
These events also attract many invited guest speakers to participate, all of whom are acknowledged specialists in their eld.
Process and Applications experts from Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology also give a number of talks on the companys technologies and process solutions, and run workshops on specic topics.
Over 100 people attended the successful nanoscale Plasma Processing Seminar in Beijing in 2011
