Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 52 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Operations Marketing and Distribution Division MDD Review of MDD Comprises: Newark element14, Farnell element14, element14, CPC and MCM operations 2012 2011 m m Growth Revenue 911.6 907.8 1.5% Adjusted operating profit 111.6 113.1 -0.3% Adjusted operating margin % 12.2% 12.5% We increased our active Excluding restructuring costs of 2.6million in 2012 and gains on the disposal customerbase by a further ofbusinesses of 1.1million.
After record sales growth of 23.1% in 2011, during the course 2.7%in the year, demonstrating of 2012 market conditions changed significantly in each of our MDD regions, with industrial and technology markets declining continued market share gains globally on the back of macroeconomic concerns.
In many segments, lack of market confidence lead to the concentration inour targeted segments.
of EDE activity into fewer, lower risk projects.
At the same timeeconomic uncertainty resulted in reluctance to invest incapitalexpenditure giving rise to a surge in MRO activity asthe life of assets was prolonged.
These factors combined todemonstrate the resiliency of our strategy as the reduction in EDE sales from the prior years record levels was partially offset by increased sales in our targeted strategic MRO segments.
This resiliency is demonstrated by the Divisions two-year sales growth of 25.6% and two-year adjusted operating profit growth of 59.9%.
By continuing to focus on the fundamentals of high service distribution, whilst further developing our global proposition toEDE and strategic MRO customers, we increased ouractivecustomer base by a further 2.7% in the year, demonstrating continued market share gains in our targeted Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS segments.
This focus on meeting our customers needs Despite challenging global macroeconomic and market These steps, combined with the disposal of the assets our contributed to the maintenance of our gross margin in line conditions, we continued to invest in our strategy through small MDD North American equipment calibration business withour cross cycle average, although the switch of segmental each of our core pillars of EDE, strategic MRO, web focus and the disposal of TPC Wire & Cable, part of the Industrial growth from EDE to MRO brought our overall gross margin .
As a development of our EDE Products Division, reinforce our commitment to focusing forthe year down from the prior years high.
strategy, we are making significant progress in our Services ourenergy and resources on driving our strategy.
Whilst Beyond Product strategy, as detailed on page 23, providing ourbusiness continues to be influenced byeconomic cycles, Following the record level of sales growth in 2011, we entered EDE engineers with value added, end-to-end solutions for their ourstrategy has seen us deliver market leading return on 2012 with strong momentum but demanding comparator design process.
In the third quarter, as part of the Services salesacross the cycle and leaves us strongly positioned in figures.
Our objectives were to consolidate sales growth whilst Beyond Product initiative, we launched the element14 Knode thecurrent environment.
continuing to deliver the industry leading return on sales of the an innovative online workspace environment for EDE prior years of our strategy and to continue to make strategic Product and supplier portfolio engineers.
Since its launch in the second quarter, the Knode further progress in our focus areas of EDE, strategic MRO, The Group continues to manage a differentiating and has received 320,000 visits.
We have also continued to web and internationalisation.
In the first quarter, growth against world-class EDE and MRO line card that includes most of develop our core element14 Community website with the the same period in the prior year of 8.7% was achieved.
theworldsleading electronic component brands as well as addition of focus segment microsites, cementing its position However, in the second quarter, against prior year growth of astrong base of selected suppliers of emerging technology.
as the leading community in its space.
Over the past 12 32.4% and with early signs of deteriorating market conditions, Inaddition to this, through Services Beyond Products the months, our element14 Community received over 3.8million growth fell to 1.3% before stabilising at -1.7% and -2.0% Group is now developing strong relationships with a number visits with exit activity levels on the Community up over 50% inthethird and fourth quarters, against comparator growth ofindustry leading strategic partners in this field.
For the full year, We continue to work to develop the depth and quality of our growth against 2011 was 1.5% and against 2010 was 25.6%, We made two significant developments in our Services franchise portfolio.
This year we added 18 new and extended giving full year sales of 911.6million for the MDD division.
Beyond Product strategy this year: franchise and partnership agreements, taking this to more Within the years overall sales growth of 1.5%, sales over 1. the announcement that we have entered into conditional than 160 since we started our strategy.
The strengthening and thewebgrew by 16.2%, with eCommerce sales representing contracts for the acquisition of Shenzhen Embest expanding of our supplier line card ensures that we have the 55.0% of total sales compared to 47.6% in 2011 significant Technology Co Ltd, a technology company focusing right products now over 465,000 available globally and strategicprogression.
onthedesign, development and marketing of embedded solutions portfolio to meet both the developing technological development tools, reference designs and engineering needs of EDE customers working at the leading edge of Through the execution of our strategy to increase the level design services and design and of profitable MRO customers requiring specific ofsales activity conducted through the web channel, we products for the maintenance and repair work they conduct.
areable to continually reshape our cost infrastructure to 2. t he launch in December of version 6 of CadSoft Eagle PCB Insupport of our focus towards strengthening our supplier theinherent efficiencies which come with being a digital CAD software.
This version provides significant structural portfolio we continued to conduct a number of technical enterprise.
Driven by our MDD businesses, this, combined and functional enhancements in design capability and andcorporate social responsibility audits of new and with strict control of volumetric anddiscretionary expenditure, integration with our other services.
contributed to a reduction inour Groups ratio of overheads grew by 147.6% year-on-year in the fourth quarter following tosales of 1.1 percentage points.
Combined with continued the launch of this product.
focus on gross margin control this delivered full yearreturn onsales for the MDD Division of 12.2%, down only0.3% on the previous year and up 2.5% on 2010.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 54 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Review of operations continued New and extended supplier relationships include: Our continually evolving EDE proposition, now extending MDD Europe and Asia Pacific beyond the distribution of product through our developing Farnell element14 and element14 Component suppliers Services Beyond Product offering, makes it attractive for 2012 2011 Atmel Semiconductors suppliers to form partnerships with us that result in their new m m Growth and innovative products being seeded to our extensive and Fisher Elektrik Heatsinks Revenue 443.1 423.5 4.0% growing global customer base, helping them accelerate time Fox Radio-Frequency RF to market and increase the likelihood of incorporation into Adjusted operating profit 71.0 74.7 -4.8% successful designs.
We have developed advanced analytical Keithley Power Supplies and Test Adjusted operating margin % 16.0% 17.6% capability to identify data and information from our element14 and Measurement Community and transactional websites that can provide Excluding restructuring costs of 2.2million in 2012.
Infineon Semiconductors suppliers with insights on how engineers make their choices Intersil Semiconductors inthe design cycle and help us identify product segments and MDD Europe and Asia Pacific sales grew by 4.0% in the year categories that will be in demand.
Such information is valued consolidating the market share gains achieved in the prior Lecroy Test and Measurement by our suppliers and often results in us benefiting in year.
Over two years, MDD Europe and Asia Pacific has Littelfuse Circuit Protection programmes of differentiation including master sampling delivered sales growth of37.0% with operating profit growth of Peccator Thermic Components programmes andenhanced franchise support.
This support 46.4% excluding impact of one-offs at actual exchange rates.
extends to marketing investment when launching new Twin Industries Prototyping Boards In challenging market conditions, we saw continued progress products to market and product exclusives, as well as the in our key strategic pillars with web sales increasing by 19.6%.
SBP suppliers ability to return slow selling or obsolete products.
The macroeconomic confidence in both Europe and Asia ARM Development Tools In the course of the year we added 15,700 EDE products Pacific impacted on the balance of EDE and MRO sales thatare new-to-market technologies and a further 35,300 intheyear, which combined with the impact of very strong Eurocircuits PCB Services toextend our product offering in existing technologies.
EDE demand last year and our continued strategic investment Micrium Embedded Software Wealso added 32,000 MRO products within targeted market in APAC, resulted in a reduced return on sales of 16.0%.
Whilst the addition of new EDE and profitable Theprogress in our strategic metrics give confidence that PCB Assembly Express PCB Services MROproducts to our range is essential to our proposition thereturns from this Division will return to prior levels once the PCB Power PCB Services andgrowth, we continually review the performance of existing EDE market recovers, and can be further enhanced through Screaming Circuits PCB Services products and during the year we also deleted many products web enabled efficiency in Europe and continued sales growth from our stock holding range that no longer fit within our in Asia Pacific where we have the necessary infrastructure Sunstone PCB Services strategic goals or listing criteria.
The Divisions portfolio has inplace.
Transcat Calibration Services astrong, well-balanced mix of established and emerging Revenue by region technology suppliers across the globe, providing design engineers with unparalleled access to depth and breadth 2012 2011 Revenue m m growth ofproduct.
UK 120.4 112.3 7.6% Rest of Europe incl exports 259.3 246.8 4.2% Asia Pacific 63.4 64.4 -3.0% note: sales analysis has been revised to reflect export sales in Rest of Europe in order to give a more appropriate geographic split.
Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Farnell element14 element14 Progress in our delivery of strategic metrics leaves this MDD Americas MDD operates under the Farnell element14 brand in UK business well placed for strong growth on recovery of Newark element14 andEurope and under the element14 brand in AsiaPacific.
confidence in the key European industrial markets.
2012 2011 m m Growth United Kingdom Asia Pacific Our European business is the most progressed in the Asia Pacific remains one of our strategic value driving Revenue 369.1 386.3 -1.5% execution of our strategy.
The UKs performance has opportunities due to the combination of the developing Adjusted operating profit 31.3 29.1 11.0% displayed resilience in the face of the economic conditions economies of the major markets led by China, India and Korea thisyear with sales growth of 7.6% in the year, delivering with rapidly developing EDE workforces and the significant Adjusted operating margin % 8.5% 7.5% further market share gains following strong growth of 21.6% market share opportunities in the region.
In challenging short Excluding restructuring costs of 0.3million in 2012 and gains on the disposal for the prior year.
Thiscontinued growth is fuelled by the web, term market conditions, our Asia Pacific sales declined ofbusinesses of 1.1million.
which saw growth of 30.2% year-on-year.
Our expertise in by3.0%, following strong growth of 34.4% in the prior year.
targeting web marketing to meet customers needs continues Oursales performance reflects the indicative Purchasing MDD Americas comprises Newark element14 and Farnell to develop and is increasingly providing differentiation Managers Index PMI data for the region which saw Australia Newark, our Brazilian business.
This focused approach has enabled us and China with PMI data below 50, signalling contraction, design engineers, maintenance repair technicians and toadd2,500 new customers in the year primarily on the fornine and six months, respectively, in the year.
Together purchasing professionals in the US, Canada, Mexico andBrazil.
web, givingan exit rate of 75.9% for eCommerce, up from these markets account for over 60% of our sales in the Asia In North America, our business delivered a strong financial 66.7% inthe prior year.
Elsewhere, good progress was made in our performance with an 11.0% increase in operating profit and new web focused markets of Korea, Taiwan and Thailand, Rest of Europe including exports areturn on sales of 8.5%, up from 7.5% the previous year.
launched in the third quarter of the prior year.
Our eCommerce With macroeconomic concerns dominating the European Theachievement of these results in a challenging sales penetration across Asia Pacific increased to 57.7% despite market throughout and in light of prior year growth of 31.5%, environment demonstrates the positive impact of the strategic very strong sales growth of 37.1% inIndia, our least web this was a challenging year.
Despite this, our business transformation in our MDD Americas business.
By focusing focused market in the region.
performed strongly, particularly in the first half, with full year onincreasing EDE, strategic MRO and eCommerce, we have sales growth of 4.2%.
Our Eastern European markets The continued development of our transactional web delivered greater, sustainable profitable growth through the continued to grow strongly at 29.2% and our eCommerce environment, our online Community and our Services Beyond economic cycle.
Further information on the progress being sales increased by 28.6% on the prior year.
Our continued Product offering give us clear differentiation in this largely made in the Americas is on page 57. focus on the web as customers channel of choice resulted weband EDE focused market.
Our business in Asia Pacific Following strong growth of 20.2% in the prior year, sales in ineCommerce penetration for Europe as a whole of 74.5% willcontinue to be the focus of considerable growth in the 2012 declined by 1.5% leaving two-year sales growth of 18.4% aswe exited the year.
This level of eCommerce penetration future.
Wecontinue to make strategic progression and have while delivering operating profit growth of 154.5% over the facilitates further structural efficiencies in the European the infrastructure, product and expertise in place to develop same period excluding impact of one-offs at actual exchange marketin the coming year.
The 2012 sales performance reflects not only the challenging market conditions in the Americas for EDE and strategic MRO products, but also the continued transformation of our MRO business as we exit commoditised MRO segments to focus on strategic segments in which customers value our high service proposition.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 56 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Review of operations continued eCommerce accounted for 38.2% of MDD Americas full Both CPC and MCM predominantly serve the consumer Industrial Products Division IPD yearsales, representing continued progression towards our electronics markets in the UK and North America, respectively.
Akron Brass strategic aim of 70% and a material increase from 18.5% three Full year sales for these two businesses grew 2.6% year-onOn the first day of the year, the Group disposed of its TPC years ago as we accelerated our transformation to the web.
year despite very challenging market conditions.
This leaves Wire& Cable business.
Throughout the year the IPD Division This increase in MDD Americas eCommerce penetration two-year sales growth at 9.3%, delivering operating profit therefore comprised Akron Brass alone.
continues to allow us to increase the operating efficiency of growth of 3.3%.
In 2012 combined full year operating profit 2012 2011 the business delivering benefits at gross margin and operating was up0.7% year-on-year, with operating margin stable at m m Growth cost levels.
During the year we increased collaboration between Adjusted revenue 61.5 62.3 2.2% these twobusinesses.
This process will continue to deliver A further 31,000 products were added to our range during benefits tothe sales delivered by each business and improve Adjusted operating profit 9.5 10.6 -6.6% theyear of which 19,750 were EDE specific.
Adjusted operating margin 15.4% 17.0% The transformation of our MDD Americas business is CPC continuing to deliver increased profitability through focus on Excludes gain on sale of TPC in 2012 and trading results of TPC in 2011.
Market conditions in the UK electrical and electronic our core strategy.
This focus was reinforced with the disposal equipment and accessories market continued to be of the assets of our in-house equipment calibration business, Akron Brass challenging throughout the year.
Despite this CPC achieved Newark Services, in the third quarter.
By disposing of the Akron Brass is a market-leader in the manufacture and sale animpressive full year sales growth of 5.3%.
The business threesites and entering into a partnership agreement with ofhigh performance fire-fighting equipment for fire truck strong value proposition combined with focus on global theacquirer we are able to improve our service proposition manufacturers, public fire services and industrial facilities.
purchasing opportunities and the development of the web tocustomers across theUS whilst increasing internal Itsproducts are designed to improve the safety and efficiency sales channel contributed to web sales growth of 14.6% strategic focus.
of personnel and equipment engaged in the suppression of year-on-year.
During the year over 31,000 new products were fire and also includes lighting and electrical control solutions.
Our MDD Americas business is continuing to be transformed added to the CPC product range, enhancing both its branded Itsells through its own field sales force and through to a digital enterprise concentrating on EDE and strategic and private label product offerings.
Marketing continues to distributors to customers around the world.
As this transformation continues focus on a multi-channel approach with a combination of the structure and cost base of the business will continue eCommerce marketing, direct mail and catalogue production.
Akron Brass has a significant share of the North American toevolve and the progress to date gives confidence over This multi-channel approach has delivered active customer market and is continuing to give focus to the development achievement of our target of delivery of return on sales base grow of 13.1% in 2012. ofinternational markets whilst broadening its product range atlevels closer to our other MDD businesses.
and reach into new industrial markets at home and abroad.
MCM This strategy has reduced reliance on the key US markets Other Distribution Businesses MCM has continued its transformation to a web focused andinternational sales represented 27.7% of all sales by CPC and MCM business reducing reliance on larger account customers.
thefourth quarter with significant progression in China, Whilst challenging market conditions have seen sales decline 2012 2011 theMiddle East and South America.
by 4.5% in the year, the business has achieved progression m m Growth towards its strategic future with web sales increasing by Domestic sales in the US are focused either directly or Revenue 99.4 98.0 2.6% 14.2%, new active customer growth of 1.7% and the launch indirectly on government spending.
The economic environment of6,500 new products in targeted growth segments.
Focus continues to impact significantly on these markets.
However, Adjusted operating profit 9.3 9.3 0.7% on innovative web marketing and continuing to replenish the the strength of the Akron Brass brand globally has delivered Adjusted operating margin % 9.4% 9.5% product portfolio globally will drive future profitable growth in sales growth of 2.2% in the year and return on sales of the business.
15.4%, despite continuing to invest in new products and Excluding restructuring costs of 0.1million in 2012. thedevelopment of international markets combined with a slowdown inits US markets.
This has been achieved through continued focus on cost control and manufacturing efficiency.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 OvERvIEW STRATEgIC FOCuS BuSINESS REvIEW gOvERNANCE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS Insights: TheAmericas Americas total market coverage Executing 195 field sales people 1 central contact centre a strategy 332 call centre staff for profitable growth When we began our strategy to focus on the EDE sector, strategy.
This has led to an improvement of its return on sales partnership between our field sales teams based around profitable segments of the MRO sector, the web and from4.0%to8.5% in just two years.
Although it is still some way NorthAmerica, a best-in-class contact centre and sophisticated internationalisation, our Americas business, predominantly fromachieving the strength and robustness of our European marketing and eCommerce teams.
This footprint allows us trading under the Newark brand, was a traditional catalogue business, themost strategically advanced of our territories, there tomore effectively leverage our resources, which include distribution business.
is no structural reason why over the medium term North America 527dedicated sales people, to offer our customers interaction cannot achieve return on sales closer to those of our combined through the full range of channels and capitalise on opportunities Newarks eCommerce and EDE propositions were weak.
European and Asia Pacific businesses.
Theproduct offering was not broad enough and was not technology led, with customer interaction limited to traditional channels.
Theonline environment was virtually non-existent while Expanding portfolio Leading online experience our supplier line card and technical support expertise lacked Newark element14s transformation to date has seen us launch We are far from finished.
In addition, the business heritage was as Newark.
We now interact with customers in a truly In the coming year, we will significantly strengthen our anMRO distributor with almost all Americas based revenues multi-channel way, through face-to-face meetings from our field eCommerce offering to give customers in the region a truly coming from the MRO sector, much of which is commoditised sales teams, by phone and eCommerce channels, especially leading online experience.
and less profitable than the EDE sector.
As part of our improvements to our customer proposition lackeddirection.
The people within the organisation were not We will accelerate our brand evolution as we seek to acquire in our strategically targeted EDE segment, we have added 4,900 incentivised in such a way that would change the profitability of EDEcustomers at an even greater rate.
In conjunction with new esoteric EDE products to the regions portfolio.
We have also the business.
We have affected a critical cultural change within anexpansion of our portfolio of services and software, we begun to augment this EDE proposition with the addition of PCB the organisation, embracing talent and shifting to an employee willcommunicate to customers in the region our journey as services, embedded software providers and a partnership with base that is high performing and rewarded for success.
aprovider of end-to-end design engineering solutions.
world leading technology innovator, ARM.
Over the last 12 months Finally, although we continue to support all our MRO customers, we have begun to transition the Newark brand to one more Driving sales we will place a greater focus on the more profitable high service synonymous with the business strategic transformation, with segments of the MRO market that tend to be high-tech in nature, thebusiness now dual branded as Newark element14.
We have made much progress in reshaping the economics more valued by our customers and less commoditised than other ofourNorth American business.
By improving our EDE and We have also evolved the physical infrastructure of Newark to segments of the MRO market.
webpropositions, we are driving sales in these higher margin become more akin to that of a digital enterprise, recognising the With all this and much more to come, the next 12 months isset areas and driving efficiencies as we increase the share of sales inherent cost efficiencies of eCommerce by closing 33 physical tobe landmark in the transformation of our Americas business online.
This year, Newark element14 saw 38.2% of sales via branches in the region since the beginning of 2008.
We now and its long term profitability.
eCommerce, compared to virtually zero when we began the havenine branches in North America and a tighter, geographic
