BUSINESS REVIEW Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Business review Business review 32 33 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Corporate Responsibility review continued Minor changes were proposed to the Standard Assessment Redrow Graduate Programme, another set of award winning product built to 2010 standards offers a 53% improvement over increases in site related fuel consumption.
However, overall Procedure SAP, the UK Government's recommended method health and safety statistics and excellent customer survey homes built in the 1970s and a 35% improvement over homes carbon emissions have to some extent been offset by reductions for measuring the energy rating of residential buildings, in results.
Elsewhere we have made refinements to data capture for built just 10 years ago, providing our customers with potential in Scope 2 emissions resulting from ongoing energy saving support of the Green Deal, but, urgently required revisions our carbon footprint reporting, introduced initiatives to reduce for significant fuel bill savings which cannot practically or cost initiatives.
For instance, at our head office at St Davids Park a previously identified by the Zero Carbon Hub were deferred, a energy consumption in our offices as well as the homes we build, effectively be matched in refurbished older homes.
combination of changes to the lighting system initiated during delay potentially compromising the Governments own engaged with WRAP Waste and Resources Action Programme refurbishment three years ago, together with subsequent timescale to Zero Carbon.
to seek improvements in waste reduction through design and The NHBC Foundation and Zero Carbon Hub recently calculated systematic replacement of worn out lamps with low energy procurement, and as ever, have been involved in many initiatives that living in an energy efficient four bedroomed detached home alternatives and a programme of modernising and rationalisation An extensive consultation was also published on proposals for at local level to support those communities in which we work.
built to these standards could be 55% cheaper to run compared of printing and photocopying devices has delivered a reduction the 2013 Building Regulations Part L Conservation of Fuel and to an upgraded Victorian home, saving 1,312 annum.
of around 15% in electricity consumption, a saving of 46 tonnes Power posing a number of serious challenges for both builders Health and safety of CO2 and a cost saving of approx.
Because of the pace of change of regulation We have maintained our high standards in this most important there is currently a lack of robust in the field corroborative area of the business and have been rewarded with the To maximise energy savings around the company, the first of a Heat Loss for the Average Dwelling data normally associated with technical development of any presentation of a RoSPA Gold Medal Award for Occupational series of energy audits have been undertaken at our Eastern and Fabric Heat Loss W K product.
Health and Safety for the third consecutive year.
This follows South Midlands divisional offices as well as St Davids Park receipt of a Gold Award for our submission for the seventh identifying a number of measures which could deliver additional We are keen to ensure that the homes we build exceed our consecutive year from RoSPAs independent adjudication body.
savings of around 11k annum and 36 tonnes CO2e annum.
customers expectations and together with many within the 400 industry, Redrow is supporting a call to Government to David Rawlins, awards manager at the Royal Society for the Energy audits for all our offices are programmed to be complete 350 thoroughly test the adequacy of the software tools and data Prevention of Accidents RoSPA, a safety charity with a 95-year by late summer, 2012. inputs which shape our specifications before setting new 300 history, said, The RoSPA Award programme provides 53% more performance targets.
efficient well-deserved recognition for the winners and spurs on other 250 organisations to raise their standards of accident and ill health The outcomes from these consultations will be published in due 200 prevention.
We congratulate Redrow Homes on its success and Scope 1 and Scope 2 Carbon Emissions Tonnes per course and detailed dialogue with the Government on these encourage it, and all other winners, to remain committed to 150 important sustainability matters seems set to continue into Annum DEFRA Definitions safety and health, an approach that is well recognised to be good 100 2013.
Redrow contributed to work co-ordinated by the Home for workers and the bottom line.
Builders federation HBF highlighting potential improvements 50 n n Scope 1 Scope 2 which could be delivered in the accuracy and robustness of Amongst the key performance indicators underpinning this 0 outputs as well as submitting our own consultation response.
Redrow performance we can include: 1972 1982 1992 2002 2012 9,000 Similar ongoing engagement is anticipated this year with the 8,000 n An Accident Incident Rate AIR which has decreased from Welsh Government, which took over responsibility for building 685 to 495 a 27% reduction mainly due to new initiatives 7,000 regulations in Wales from the UK Government on 31 December aimed at reducing slip and trip injuries 6,000 Thermal Imaging 2011.
During the year we raised concerns with senior Assembly n No Enforcement Notices In our effort to continually improve our products we have 5,000 Ministers over the cumulative impact of policy proposals and the instituted a thermal imaging test programme to assess our associated effects on scheme viability which have the potential 4,000 n No Prohibition Notices construction details, enabling us to focus on potential areas for to seriously challenge the delivery of new homes in Wales.
3,000 n further performance enhancement and research appropriate No Improvement Notices 2,000 solutions.
We will be submitting a response to the Welsh Government n 99.7% of persons on Redrow sites including relevant 1,000 consultation in respect of the first planned change to the employees have a CSCS card Carbon Footprint 0 Building Regulations under devolution which involve new carbon 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 For the fifth year Redrow has voluntarily submitted carbon emissions targets announced for Part L Conservation of fuel and footprint data to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP with power.
The consultation was launched at the end of July and will Heat Loss Performance Note: no data collated for 2008 continuous refinements in data collection enabling us to reduce close in October.
Reduction in energy consumption is clearly a growing concern the uncertainty in our reporting to CDPs category of more than for all of us, not least because of escalating fuel prices.
The results for the financial year ending Equally as important as our involvement in shaping future policy undertaken by the Building Research Establishment BRE on the June 2011 show that our Scope 1 and 2 emissions have Energy saving lamps have also been introduced into our show is our commitment to progressive delivery on all aspects of heat loss from the average dwelling since the 1970s illustrates increased by 11.8% reflecting increased output activity homes and marketing suites, producing typical savings of around corporate responsibility in our day-to-day business activity.
the considerable reduction achieved by new homes in associated with the gradual recovery from recession, generating 1,400 annum outlet.
Amongst many examples of our success this year we can list, the comparison to the average older home.
Redrows average Fabric Heat Loss W K Tonnes BUSINESS REVIEW l a i c r e m m C o o C n s t r u c t i o n Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Business review Business review 34 35 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Corporate Graduates in Construction Responsibility The fact that over a million 16 to 24 year olds in the UK are out of work is a disgrace.
review At Redrow were doing our bit to help through initiatives like apprenticeships and graduate training programmes continued Steve Morgan, Chairman - February 2012 Sustainable Procurement In support of our timber procurement policy and as part of an In conjunction with the Global Forest Trade Network GFTN we initiative to reduce packaging and timber waste we have joined have continued to work with our supply chain to ensure our forces with Scott ELM, a division of the newly rebranded Scott purchasing policy is adhered to and procurement levels are Group, to launch a specialist pallet repatriation service for all our maintained.
In the calendar year ending 2011, we achieved building projects across the UK.
further improvement with 99.3% of timber products used on our sites classified Licensed Source, Progressing to Certification or All suppliers to Redrow are required to mark pallets with an Credibly Certified.
The priorities included within our agreed identifier that will enable Scott ELM to return them to source.
In Action Plan for 2012 are: the calendar year ending 2011, the first full year of operation of the scheme, 8,191 pallets were collected from our sites and 195 n On-going review and development of process, specification tonnes of timber were recycled.
and procedures in order to tighten procurement, particularly Redrows Graduates undertook an plywood products Waste Management intensive project for the Liverpool Habitat for Humanity charity as part Momentum was also maintained in our site waste management n Maintain communication with the roof truss industry to of their programme activity, where site waste diverted from landfill now exceeds promote the benefits of FSC certification 92%, a 2% improvement over last year.
n Continue dialogue with paper suppliers on bringing the Redrow recognises the importance of investing in people for the Successful graduates then benefit from working in a live In the financial year ending June 2012 we produced 8.7 tonnes remaining element of non-FSC paper into line cost future of the business.
We strongly believe that well trained environment as part of a divisional team.
They gain experience in 2 of waste 100 m of developed floor area against an industry effectively employees have been, and will continue to be, essential to our each Divisional and Group discipline, undertake training courses average Environmental Performance indicator EPI of 19.2 success.
Our strong track record in training and developing the and are tasked with specific assignments.
Throughout the n Maintain the focus of Buyers within Redrow to ensure they 3 2 2 skills of our employees contributed to Redrows inclusion in process their progress is monitored and reviewed.
m 100 m which equates to just under 12 tonnes 100m of maintain contact with local suppliers Building magazines 2011 Good Employer Guide, a list of the top developed floor area.
61 construction or construction related businesses to work for in n Ensure our new buying system software aids control of the UK.
Judges described career progression as one of Redrows timber procurement with improved real time reporting and standout benefits.
Site waste diverted from landfill cumulative performance data for suppliers A crucial element of our policy is our commitment to attract and % train youngsters both through the apprenticeship route and the academic route via our Graduate Training Programme and Group Placements currently 1 in 7 of our employees are aged 24 or under.
These schemes are demanding and designed to be challenging to Usage of Timber Training Courses encourage candidates to meet their full potential in their careers 92 90 GFTN categories 86 as exemplified by the Graduate Training Programme.
Assignments 74 This intensive 15 month programme affords insight into all 65 aspects of the business, enabling a holistic understanding and n Legal origin confirmed or credibly certified presenting opportunities for early responsibility and equal chance of success for young women.
As a result places are 100 sought after and competition is tough.
99.3 98.5 95.9 90 91.4 91.8 88.6 The recruitment process involves a telephone interview and 80 83.5 81.4 81.7 At the end of the 15 month programme the graduates will have 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 verbal and numeric on-line tests.
Candidates are then invited to 70 a broad based and in-depth understanding of the business and an assessment day at which they will be interviewed, take a 2 60 hour exam and engage in a group debate.
This is followed by a the interactions within it.
They will have been able to combine % the core skills learned at university with practical applications final interview and presentation to the Managing Director of the 50 To assist us in identifying ways in which we could further reduce and developed maturity and discipline but they will also bring prospective Redrow division within which they will work.
To give 40 the enthusiasm and fresh thinking required to push Redrow and divert waste from landfill through design, during the year we some perspective to this process there were in excess of 600 30 forward.
applications for this years intake of six places.
took the opportunity to engage with Waste and Resources Action 20 Programme WRAP in a Housing Design Review Workshop 10 which at the same time gave useful insight into WRAPs Design This scheme is all about home growing talent, educating them in the Redrow Way and 0 Review Methodology which we can employ in the future.
WRAP 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 also gives young people the opportunity to become managers of the future.
is funded by all four governments across the UK to run programmes designed to focus on preventing waste.
Steve Morgan, Chairman - February 2012 d n a L S a l e s l a c i n h c e T BUSINESS REVIEW Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Business review Business review 36 37 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Corporate Responsibility review continued Following the workshop WRAP provided us with guidance for sensitivity of the site and providing benefits for a wide range of enhancements to procurement documentation and have species including birds, bats, badgers and amphibians.
The three Liverpool Habitat for Humanity undertaken a Net Waste Tool assessment of three housetypes phase programme will provide 47 new ponds with an overall from the New Heritage Collection.
The resulting reports will total habitat of over 1Ha, designed to provide a greatly identify the forecast waste and possible cost savings and can enhanced breeding habitat for the newts, as well as then become drivers to monitor subcontract skip waste.
incorporating areas of woodland and terrestrial habitat.
Community Engagement Customer Satisfaction Our pride is not limited to the quality of our products and Delighting our customers with the quality of their new homes service, it also extends to our involvement within the and their buying experience in its entirety is one of Redrows community at grass roots level in schemes like Liverpool Habitat principal objectives.
for Humanity supporting local people and organisations as well as the development of local infrastructure.
2011 saw recognition of the quality of our New Heritage Collection with receipt of the Gold award in the Best Large For the first time, this year the trustees of the Redrow Housebuilder in the What House?
The judges Foundation invited staff across the Group to nominate registered commentary made special reference to the high specification charities in keeping with the Foundations stated charitable interiors and kerb appeal of our products and noted that The objectives.
New Heritage Collection has sold by the simple expedient of being what the buyers want.
Grant Strong adds the Philippa Vickery and Leanne Allen tending to the landscaping of the new Two of Habitats younger As a result a total of 93,000 was donated this year to a variety finishing touches to the Marketing area residents, Vanessa and Floyd of organisations, bringing the cumulative total of contribution Marketing Suite meet Redrows health & Our efforts were further rewarded by our customers who safety mascot Buster Bear made to date by the Foundation to over 390,000. indicated their appreciation in the annual HBF Customer Satisfaction Survey in which we retained our top 5 star rating One of the intensive projects undertaken by this years Liza Parry, executive director for LHFH, said: This has been showing that over 90% of our customers were satisfied with the Graduate Trainee intake has involved working with Liverpool fantastic for us and the new marketing suite will be a major quality of their new home and would recommend us to a friend.
Habitat for Humanity LHFH, in Granby-Toxteth.
The charity asset for the charity.
Weve recently formed a new Some of our customers also played an important role in is responsible for 32 low-cost homes off Kingsley Road, partnership with Cosmopolitan Housing Association, which is contributing to our marketing campaign Our Pride Your Joy mostly built by volunteers including the future home owners helping to fund construction of our remaining 23 homes: which scooped Best marketing Initiative in the 2011 themselves.
The Graduates task was to transform an weve had the Territorial Army on site helping to dig drains Housebuilder Awards.
unoccupied house into a marketing area for would-be home and build a road to service the homes: and now we have a owners, incorporating office space for LHFH staff and a clean, attractive and welcoming environment in which we Nature Conservation viewing gallery where children can learn about construction can talk to prospective home owners, take them through the One of the major concerns communities have when we work in and see progress on site from the safety of an upstairs plans and hopefully sign them up to start helping to build their neighbourhoods is the conservation of wildlife and bedroom, whilst externally, the gardens were landscaped.
associated habitats within the area of development, a Much needed marketing material and signage was also responsibility which Redrow takes very seriously.
Our scheme at LHFH is an affiliate of the international Habitat for Humanity procured.
Buckley, North Wales demonstrates how involved these works organisation, a global charity that is supported in the UK by often are.
The task involved co-ordinated teamwork, testing the Home Builders Federation.
The international charity has communication, negotiation and programming skills as well built more than 500,000 homes around the world, has The site, which will deliver around 300 new homes formerly as hands on work painting and landscaping and gave valuable projects in approximately 80 different countries and is consisted of three main areas, a brickworks building and yard, a experience of the supply side of the business as materials, dedicated to the elimination of housing poverty.
clay pits quarry area, and a site of special scientific interest services and gifts in kind were sought from a raft of Redrow SSSI special area of conservation SAC part of which is In Liverpool, families are able to reduce the cost of home suppliers.
occupied by a large lagoon produced as a result of quarrying ownership by investing 500 hours of sweat equity, activities.
Three weeks of preparation were permitted to plan the work physically working on site, in lieu of a 10,000 cash downand source materials which in itself was a challenge as they payment.
The charity is actively recruiting home owners for Working closely with Flintshire County Council, the Countryside work in different Redrow divisions.
They then came together the 23 of its 32 homes still to be built, on land that was Council for Wales, Welsh Assembly Government and local wildlife in Liverpool for four days of intensive work to put all their donated by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese.
groups, detailed mitigation measures and long term plans into practice.
management proposals have been prepared recognising the DIRECTORS & BOARD REPORTS Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Directors & Board reports Directors & Board reports 38 39 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Board of Directors Steve Morgan John Tutte Barbara Richmond Chairman Group Managing Director Group Finance Director A A A Graham Cope Company Secretary Alan Jackson Non-Executive Deputy Paul Hampden Smith Chairman Non-Executive Director ABCDE ABCE Debbie Hewitt Non-Executive Director ABCE Steve Morgan, 59 Barbara Richmond, 52 Paul Hampden Smith, 51 Graham Cope, 48 Chairman Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Steve Morgan founded Redrow in 1974 and led the business Barbara joined the Board of Redrow in January 2010.
Bringing Appointed to the Redrow Board in August 2009.
Paul Hampden Graham Cope joined Redrow as Head of Legal in November 2002 from a small civil engineering contractor to become one of the with her a proven track record, with almost 20 years experience Smith is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
He and was appointed Company Secretary two months later.
He has UKs leading home builders.
He floated the Company in 1994 as Group Finance Director at a number of UK listed companies has been Group Finance Director of Travis Perkins plc since 1996 over 20 years experience in the housebuilding sector, either and eventually stepped down as Chairman in November 2000, including Inchcape plc, Croda International PLC and Whessoe plc.
and was previously Chairman of the Audit Committee at DX working in-house or for clients in private practice.
He qualified as returning to the helm in March 2009.
Steve is also Chairman of She has a strong background in both manufacturing and retail as Services plc and Polestar UK Limited.
a Solicitor in 1989 and is a member of the Law Society.
the Bridgemere Group of Companies, which includes well as having completed a number of major acquisitions and Wolverhampton Wanderers, Carden Leisure and Trinity Aviation.
She is a Fellow of the Institute Debbie Hewitt, 49 Steve is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Building and holds of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a graduate Non-Executive Director four Honorary Degrees.
He was awarded an OBE in 1992. of the University of Manchester.
Debbie joined the Redrow Board in August 2009.
She has a wealth of experience in executive and non-executive roles.
She is Committee members key John Tutte, 56 Alan Jackson, 69 currently the Non-Executive Chairman of Moss Bros plc, Evander Group Managing Director Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent A Main Board member Group and Whitestuff.
She is also Non-Executive Director of HR Director John Tutte joined the Board of Redrow in July 2002.
In B Member of the Remuneration Committee Owen plc, NCC plc, BGL and Domestic & General.
She was September 2009 he was promoted to Group Managing Director.
Alan Jackson joined the Redrow Board in August 2009.
He has a C Member of the Audit Committee awarded the MBE in 2011 for services to business and the public He qualified in civil engineering and has amassed more than 30 wealth of experience in executive and non-executive roles and is D Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee sector.
years experience within the industry, having previously held the currently the Non-Executive Chairman of The Restaurant Group E Member of the Nomination Committee position as Chief Executive of Wilson Connolly plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Playtech plc.
DIRECTORS & BOARD REPORTS Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Directors & Board reports Directors & Board reports 40 41 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards Corporate of corporate governance.
Governance statement Governance Framework A summary of the composition of the Board and its committees Board responsibilities and processes The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved The Board is committed to complying with corporate governance during the year is set out in Table 1.
The Board met regularly and frequently, no less than six times specifically for its decision.
guidelines and to maintaining high standards of corporate during the year and maintains a close dialogue as appropriate governance.
Steve Morgan as Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board between meetings.
Board meetings are held at Head Office or at The matters reserved include: and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The role of divisional offices when visits are frequently made to a selection of The Financial Reporting Council introduced in June 2010 a new John Tutte as Group Managing Director ensures that there is a clear developments accompanied by the local management team.
Board n Approval of Redrows long term objectives and strategy: governance code entitled The UK Corporate Governance Code the division of responsibilities at the head of the Company between the papers are distributed in advance of the meetings to allow adequate n Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary Code.
This statement, unless specifically stated, refers to the Code, running of the Board and the operational responsibility for the time for review and preparation and include key strategic, and half-yearly financial statements, interim management and the Company sets out details below of how it has applied the running of the Companys business as required by the Code.
Attendance by individual statements, trading updates and the recommendation of principles of good governance as set out in Section 1 of the Code.
directors at Board and Committee meetings held during the year dividends: All Non-Executive Directors holding office during the year ended ended 30 June 2012 is set out in Table 2.
The Directors have considered the contents and requirements of the 30 June 2012 were considered to be independent.
n Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies Code and believe that throughout the year ended 30 June 2012 the Details of internal control and risk management processes are or practices: Company has been compliant.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its included in the Audit Committee report on pages 44 to 46. n Any changes relating to capital structure: Committees and his appointment and removal is a matter for the n Approval of treasury policies: The Board Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary is a member of the Group Board balance and independence Composition of the Board Senior Management team and all Directors have access to his advice The Board considers that it is of a size and has a balance of skills, n Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal The Board comprises an Executive Chairman, two further Executive and services.
In certain circumstances, Board Committees and knowledge and experience that is appropriate for its business.
The control and risk management: Directors and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
There individual Directors may wish to take independent professional Executive team provides the Board with an appropriate view of the n Approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, significant have been no changes to the composition of the Board since the advice in connection with their responsibilities and duties and, in detail of the business and the benefit of their significant collective land purchases or contracts: publication of the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
this regard, the Company will meet the reasonable costs and experience of the UK house building industry and that enables it n Changes to the size, structure and composition of the expenses incurred.
and its committees to discharge their respective duties and Board: responsibilities effectively.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a depth of experience and understanding from outside the Group n Approval of significant policies, including Redrows health which enables them to challenge and help develop proposals on the & safety policy: and Groups strategy.
n Review of overall corporate governance arrangements.
Table 1 List of Directors holding office during the year ended 30 June 2012 Details of the Directors respective experience is set out in their Position Number Independent Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate profiles on pages 38 to 39. of years Committee Committee Committee Responsibility on board in Committee most recent Under the Code, at least half the Board, excluding a Non-Executive Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are appointment subject to re-election at their first general meeting after Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board currently comprises three Executive and three appointment.
The Board however complies with the provisions of Executive Directors the Code on Re-election and accordingly all Directors will be Non-Executive directors, in compliance with the Code.
Steve Morgan Chairman i 3 submitting themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Details of the John Tutte Group Managing Director 10 appropriate AGM resolutions can be found on page 96.
Table 1 on page 40 provides a summary of the Companys Barbara Richmond Group Finance Director 2 assessment of the independence of the Directors.
The Boards policy on the term of appointment for a Non-Executive The Board considers that each Director is able to allocate sufficient Director is that it is not normally expected that a Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors Director will serve more than six years.
time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Alan Jackson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Professional development and performance evaluation Appointments and re-elections to the Board Independent Director 2 Chairman Chairman The Board has a Nomination Committee whose terms of reference The Board recognises that a structured appraisal process and good training are important requirements across the Group.
The Board Debbie Hewitt Non-Executive Director 2 Chairman include making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
There were no new receives regular presentations and briefings from those responsible Paul Hampden Smith Non-Executive Director 2 Chairman for key Group disciplines.
In addition, the Board maintains close appointments to the Board during the financial year ended 30 June 2012.
The Nomination Committee report can be found on page 47. relationships with Divisional management teams.
i Steve Morgan is the founder of Redrow and rejoined the Board on 23 March 2009, after an absence of over 8 years, and became Chairman on 1 July 2009.
DIRECTORS & BOARD REPORTS Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Directors & Board reports Directors & Board reports 42 43 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance statement continued Table 2 - Attendance record of Directors at meetings during the year ended 30 June 2012 Corporate Governance Structure Corporate Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility Main Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in the year ended 30 June 2012 7 4 3 1 3 Non-Executive Team Executive Management Team Executive Directors Steve Morgan 7 7 Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent Director Chairman John Tutte 7 7 Independent Non-Executive Directors Group Managing Director Barbara Richmond 7 7 Group Finance Director Company Secretary Non-Executive Directors Functional Heads of Department covering Human Resources, Information Technology, Commercial, Alan Jackson 7 7 3 4 3 3 1 1 3 3 Marketing and Finance Debbie Hewitt 7 7 4 4 3 3 1 1 Paul Hampden Smith 7 7 4 4 3 3 1 1 Committees Operating Divisions Audit All Directors undertake a comprehensive induction programme Relations with Shareholders Corporate Responsibility following their first appointment.
The programme for Non-Executive The Group announces its financial results half-yearly and Nomination Directors is specifically designed to encompass the full breadth of immediately following their publication undertakes formal Remuneration business and includes visits to operating businesses.
A formal presentation was also made in April 2012 in respect of the Firm Placing and Open Offer During the year, formal appraisals of the Group Managing Director proposals.
These presentations are available on the Companys and Group Finance Director were undertaken by the Chairman.
In addition, the Group published an Interim Management Statement in November 2011 and April 2012.
Formal notification of the AGM, through the Annual Report and All independent Non-Executive Directors had an annual appraisal Accounts, is sent to Shareholders at least 21 working days in conducted by the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
During the year ended June 2012, the Chairman, the Group advance.
It is Company policy to propose a separate resolution at Managing Director, and the Group Finance Director together with the AGM on each substantive issue including the opportunity to The Board undertakes a formal annual review of it own effectiveness.
the Senior Independent Director also held a number of meetings approve the Remuneration report.
For the year ended June 2012, this was undertaken using a formal with significant Shareholders.
questionnaire completed by each Director and the responses were Redrows website, redrowplc.
co. uk, gives access to current financial considered collectively by the Board.
Following the full year and half-yearly results announcements in and corporate information.
September 2011 and February 2012, the Chairman, the Group Directors remuneration Managing Director and the Group Finance Director met current or The Board has a Remuneration Committee whose terms of reference potential significant Shareholders.
This embraced visits to London include the review of Main Board remuneration policy and and feedback from these meetings is independently collated and agreement of the terms of employment and the granting of bonuses, disseminated to the Board.
share options or share incentive plans relating to the Groups Senior Graham Cope Management.
The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place at a venue close to Company Secretary the Groups Head Office.
All Directors attended the AGM on 18 September 2012 The Remuneration report can be found on pages 49 to 56.
The AGM represents an opportunity for all Shareholders attending to table questions formally during the Capital Structure meeting and informally afterwards to the Companys Directors.
In During the year the Company undertook a Firm Placing and Open addition an EGM was held on 15 May 2012.
Information on this and the capital structure of the Company is included in the Directors report on page 59.
