24 24 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report operating review beverage cans group results 2012 2011 In 2012, overall Group performance was Sales 3,885m 3,786m inline with expectations.
Total sales were Underlying operating profit 456m 447m Return on sales 11.7% 11.8% 4,760m and total underlying operating Return on net assets 32.7% 31.6% profit was 537m.
Total underlying profit The beverage can industry currently manufactures around 300bn before tax was 450m and total underlying cans globally and the market is growing about 3% annually.
The three biggest global producers are Rexam, Ball and Crown who earnings per share was 37.
together account for more than 60% of the global beverage can volumes and close to 90% in Europe, North and South America.
For continuing operations excluding The industry as a whole is characterised by high barriers to entry with the scale economies afforded by numerous production plants Personal Care, sales were 4,312m favouring the major players.
Freight costs are substantial and in 2011: 4,232m with organic sales large regions a key driver of competitive advantage is an optimised network of plants in close proximity to customer filling locations.
growth, which adjusts for the impact of Rexam Beverage Cans is a global business that operates on a foreign currency exchange, of 4% coming regional basis which enables us to remain responsive to customer and market needs.
Consumer preferences tend to be very regional mainly from Beverage Cans.
Underlying and often form part of cultural traditions.
profit before tax increased to 418m Our main operations are in Europe, North America and South America.
From the start of 2013, we split our Europe and Asia 2011: 414m while underlying earnings business into two sectors.
We now have one sector dedicated to Europe including Russia and one to manage emerging markets in per shareimproved 5%to 35.5p.
Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
Located in Dubai, it has plants in Turkey, Egypt and India and a joint venture in South Korea.
The financial review on page 31 containsdetails of the statutory results and a reconciliation between these andunderlyingresults.
cans for growth Cans are a popular form of beverage packaging throughout the world.
They are light and sustainable being 100% and infinitely recyclable.
Theyare, in fact, the most recycled type of beverage packaging in theworld.
They are used for a wide array of beverages including beer, carbonated soft drinks, sports and energy drinks and iced tea.
Emerging categories such as juice, water, iced coffee and functional drinks are using the can to open up new markets.
25 The beverage cans share of the global carbonated soft drink pack mix is 20% by volume and 41% by unit.
In beer, the shares are 22% and 31% respectively.
Within the regions, our business is centralised and managed on alean basis for cost control.
The regional businesses collaborate globally ensuring that we leverage our scale and expertise 34% and growing effectively.
To further support this, in 2012 we established a centrally driven technology programme for new products and Our sales in emerging markets grew 3% in 2012 and processes with one set of innovation goals.
It is headed up by a now account for 34% of our sales.
We see further director of technology reporting into the leadership team.
This potential for both of our businesses.
See also page 14. singular approach will help us better share best practice and In the Middle East and Africa, for example, strong GDP deliver value to all our stakeholders.
We also set up a centre led growth and the relatively low penetration of beverage global procurement team for aluminium, other direct materials cans make these attractive growth markets.
also a favourable movement in the pack mix towards Beverage cans are made from aluminium or steel.
Because the cans supported by a youthful population more beverage can making process relies on high speeds and low disposed towards this type of beverage container.
Asia tolerances, operational excellence is at the heart of our business.
also has attractive beverage can growth rates.
We do Manufacturing and engineering expertise, cost reduction and best not directly own any can making facilities in South East practice sharing, based on lean six sigma activities and world Asia but are exploring opportunities arising from class customer service all form part of this foundation.
In 2012 Rexam Beverage Cans global volumes increased by 6% At the start of 2013, we established a new sector based onlast year, with good growth in all three regions supported by in Dubai to specifically drive our emerging markets the recovery of volumes in North America as well as a 10% growth strategy.
We expanded our plant outside Mumbai to a in specialty volumes across the business.
Organic sales were up new aluminium line to increase manufacturing capacity 4% 6% excluding pass through to 3,885m and operating profit in India.
We were the first to manufacture two piece increased to 456m.
Good volume growth in specialty cans, beverage cans in India and this latest investment will market share recovery in North America, the delivery of help secure our foothold and develop the market further.
efficiencies related to downgauging and lightweighting and In Healthcare, we doubled the capacity of our plant therelentless application of lean manufacturing and six sigma inBangalore to meet continued growth in the region.
practices to reduce waste and lower energy consumption were A contract to manufacture generic drug delivery offset by cost headwinds such as higher conversion costs the cost devices for a customer in India will, in time, require of converting ingot into rolled sheet aluminium and higher metal usto consider building aplant in Western India.
premiums the cost charged by warehouses to hold aluminium ingots as well as labour.
Our profit margin was broadly flat while RONA improved to Craig Jones is the director 32.7%reflecting the rise in operating profit and our disciplined of our newly established capital spend.
Africa, the Middle East and Asia AMEA beverage can sector based in Dubai.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 26 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report operating review beverage can europe & asia beverage can north america Sector director Iain Percival Sector director Rich Grimley Volumes 27.4bn cans Volumes 20.9bn cans Capacity utilisation High nineties Capacity utilisation Mid eighties Europe is the largest of our regional markets and North America is the largest beverage can market in weare the leading can maker with more than 40% the world with consumption in the region of 100bn market share.
We are the number two can maker with more than 20% market share.
In 2012, our can volumes grew 3%, broadly in line with the market.
Growth in our standard 12oz cans, excluding Russian volumes, Although the North American can market was flat, our overall was 1% for the year.
There were a number of promotions in volumes grew 12% with volumes of standard cans growing 10% different countries and drinks categories in the first half of the aswe recovered one third of the total volume lost in 2011. yeardue to major events such as the London Olympics and the Our specialty can volumes performed strongly, growing 18%, European Football Championships but our growth was dampened mainly driven by increased sales of Sleek, 16oz and 24oz cans by continuing economic uncertainty, an increase in Spanish VAT as where customers are using package differentiation to attract well as our decision to relinquish some low margin business, given consumers particularly in the beer, iced teas and energy our focus on returns.
Our specialty can volumes, however, grew 6% drinkssegments.
due to continued good growth in energy drinks for export, helped by the launch of new flavours as well as event specific cans.
During the year, we successfully completed, ahead of schedule, the conversion to a lighter weight can end across our can end facilities In Russia, can volumes grew 4%.
The new beer advertising which will bring benefits in material usage to our North America regulations and restrictions around the sale of strong beer from business.
We also increased capacity in specialty cans with the kiosks did not have as significant an impact on cans as might have effective conversion of a 12oz line to Sleek and 16oz at our been expected but we remain cautious as to the outcome of these Chicago plant which started production in the fourth quarter.
The main changes in the market structure are anticipated to be in 2013 when all beer will be banned in kiosks We boosted our supply capability in Mexico and Guatemala currently some 12% to 15% of total beer sales.
We expect, withefficiency improvements at each plant location to address however, that most kiosk beer sales will switch to other trade increasing customer demand in a Central American can market channels such as traditional shops and supermarkets.
While that grew 15% during the year.
consumption of cans is expected to continue to grow, our market We continued to work with customers on freight and metal usage share will be affected as a result of continued competitor activity.
as well as distribution and filling economics to strengthen the At the end of January 2013, we started up a new plant in Finland.
Itcompleted on time and on budget and will increase our European Our good cash conversion continued as we maintained the strong capacity by about 1.4bn standard cans through 2013 and 2014 as return on net assets that characterises this part of the business.
we optimise output, with volumes covered by signed contracts up to and including 2015.
In India, production started at our new high speed aluminium beverage can line plant in the final quarter of 2012 increasing our annual capacity to 0.8bn cans.
We are investing in a new specialty can line in Ludesch, Austria, which will increase our capacity by 0.7bn cans and enable us to support continued growth in specialty cans for export.
In February 2013, we announced that we would be building a new can plant in Switzerland ready for start up in 2015 see also page 29.
We successfully started the switch to lighter weight ends across our European network with the conversion of two of our four end plants, Waterford, Ireland, and Mont, France.
The new ends use 10% less metal compared with standard ends and will deliver significant savings on raw material costs.
27 modern take on old story To celebrate its 135th anniversary, Norwegian brewery Mack, the northern most brewery in the world, created a special pilsner in an eye catching can from Rexam.
The nostalgic feel of the 50cl can, featuring a photo of the brewerys founder Ludwig Mack, was brought to life by Rexams advanced printing techniques and ensured an exciting, exclusive look while maintaining the tradition of the brand.
Read more about innovation on page 54. share to save crafted for cans Best practice sharing at Rexam is part of our operational The craft beer can revolution in the US continues to gather pace.
excellence and one of the reasons behind the consistent delivery Increasing numbers of craft beers are finding inherent value in of our annual efficiencies and savings.
The sharing includes cans through filling and distribution economics, high manufacturing and business processes.
The speed up of the recyclability and graphics that stand out on retail shelves.
Fredericia Denmark lines, based on work done in our South MoatMountain Brewing is one of the craft beer customers American plants, enabled us to increase capacity without utilising Rexam 24oz cans to package its beers and ales and installing extra capital equipment.
Similar line speed up work therange is growing.
inLudesch Austria across three lines allowed us to push capacity investment to a later date.
The results of our efficiency savings are on page 12. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 28 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report operating review The large drinks producers maintained a strategy of focusing on beverage can south america margin which impacted volume growth.
In October 2012, Brazils government postponed tax increases on beer and the total tax Sector director Carlos Medeiros burden is not expected to change until April 2013.
Drinks Volumes 12.6bn cans producers seem to be maintaining their investment plans and although prices to consumers are expected to rise, these are not Capacity utilisation Low nineties expected tobe significant.
The big sports events to be hosted in Brazil in the coming years are expected to have a positive effect on beverage consumption and accelerate sales.
The major beverage manufacturers have already In South America, our overall volumes were up 5% in announced substantial investments for the coming years, including a market that grew 7%, driven largely by growth in the greenfield plants and improvements in production capacity to support the predicted higher demand.
beer segment and as cans continued to take market share from returnable glass.
The new plant in Belm, which will initially add 0.8bn of additional can capacity to our South American network, is set to open in the Growth in our own 12oz standard cans accelerated in the second first quarter and will help us to accelerate our growth and recover half and volumes were up 4% for the whole year.
Specialty cans market share ceded in the past two years.
growth continued and volumes were up 8% for the year primarily driven by beer.
Although the continued softness in the Brazilian economy dampened growth somewhat, the beverage sector was one of thefew that continued to grow benefiting from an expanding population and higher domestic incomes.
In Argentina and Chile we are the sole can maker.
Growth in both countries was very strong during the year with volumes up 18% and 13% respectively as new filling capacity came on line and cans gained share over glass bottles.
Can volume growth for CSDs and beer outstripped beverage market growth in both countries.
bodymakers make good Bodymakers pictured left are the main piece of can forming machinery in our plants.
It is where the can assumes its familiar shape.
There are normally a number of bodymakers per production line and they require a lot of lubrication.
They use a lot of lubricants and are regularly targeted for continuous improvement and reduction.
After teaming with suppliers and internal engineers, Beverage Can South America came up with a change in design that resulted in a substantial reduction in oil usage.
It is being adopted and trialled at other plants in the Rexam network and the plan is to roll thisout across the rest of the Group with similarequipment.
Read more about how we are targeting reduction of raw materials and energy onpage54.
29 made for me Made for me is a growing trend where consumers are increasingly keen on personalisation.
Rexam has introduced an innovation to the print process patent pending that enables us to print multiple designs at one time.
This enables us to offer customers different can designs on a pallet.
These customised pallets can be delivered directly tocustomer filling lines, allowing highly impactful campaigns to be delivered at point of sale with minimal disruption to the customers normal fillingprocesses.
By offering consumers a choice of customised cans, for example using popular and familiar themes as in the cans pictured here, our customers can connect with them on a more individual basis.
In 2012, for Coca-Cola in Brazil, we produced canswith 72 different names at five of our plants.
The successful project reinforced the relationship and highlighted our innovation potential.
Read more on innovation on page 54. new European plant for specialty cans In February 2013, we announced that we are to build a new wall to wall beverage can making plant in Widnau, Switzerland, to support the global growth ofenergy drinks.
The plant, which represents an investment of some 115m over the next 3 years, will make various sizes of both Slim and Sleek cans.
Itwill give us additional capacity of 2.2bn specialty cans when complete.
The first line is due to come on stream at the start of 2015.
Photo of customised cans The wall to wall facility, which will be built to the latest Plan to replace with Widnau story if investment environmental specifications, will minimise traffic to approved by Board.
Also subject to Red Bull and from the site, optimise logistics cost and further approval.
enhance the sustainability credentials of the beverage can.
It will also free up capacity at other Rexam plants in the region which will enable us to grow the specialty can segment or release production capacity for other sizes.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 30 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report operating review Rexam Healthcare is a global leader in the design, healthcare packaging development and manufacture of innovative rigid plastic packaging and devices forhealthcare 2012 2011 applications.
Sales 427m 446m Healthcare comprises two main businesses: Packaging & Devices, Underlying operating profit 48m 65m including drug delivery devices, metering pumps and valves and medical components, and Retail Prescription products, which Return on sales 11.2% 14.6% includes containers and closures.
It is a well invested business with Return on net assets 26.0% 38.2% an experienced management team and, in all, currently employs around 3,100 people at 13 plants in the US, Europe and India.
Sector director Marc Hmel In 2012, organic sales in Healthcare were down 2%.
There was good growth in a new range of insulin pens and multi layer containers but this was more than offset by the weak flu season in North America in the early part of the year and the impact on the pricing of one of our key devices as the drug it delivers comes off patent in 2013.
In addition, the loss of business with an animal health provider in the second half of the year contributed to the overall reduction in sales.
Efficiencies of 7m, driven principally from lean manufacturing practices and lower energy use, were not sufficient to offset lower prescription volumes and the lost animal health business.
Pricing was also down as gains in the Prescription business were more than offset by the effect of the customers product coming off patent.
As a result, both profit margin and RONA declined in 2012.
The extension of our plant in La Verpillire, France, to accommodate increased volumes of insulin pens for global customers will start production at the end of 2013.
In India, we have also extended the plant to meet increased we put patients first demand from local customers.
Rexam Healthcare lived up to its maxim We put patients first We continue to pursue opportunities to develop or codevelop when its Chicago area employees took to the streets to support solutions with pharmaceutical companies as they focus a charity event to raise money in support of diabetes patients increasingly on their core business.
Our needle stick prevention and research.
Nearly 100 employees participated in the US Diabetes Associations event and more than 140 donations device, SafenSound, and our preservative free technology for were received.
The team raised more than US$17,000 for the multidose eye droppers, Novelia, represent a strong pipeline of cause and took first place among corporate teams participating.
opportunities in developed and emerging countries.
The industrial ramp up of our next generation nasal spray, Advancia, is progressing and will reinforce our market position in a segment inwhich we expect strong growth in the next five years.
