RPC Group Plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operating review 2012 Revenue Conversion process Cluster Markets Paints, DIY products, soups & sauces, Injection Moulding UK Injection Moulding edible fats, promotional products 1,130m Personal care, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, Injection Moulding Bramlage-Wiko tablet dispensers & inhalant devices, food, coffee capsules 38% Food, soups & sauces, margarine & Injection Moulding Superfos 2011: 819m spreads, paints, DIY products Margarine & spreads, fresh, frozen and long Higher added-value sales Thermoforming Bebo shelf-life foods, coffee capsules, dairymarket Vending & drinking cups, coffee capsules, 337m Thermoforming Tedeco-Gizeh disposable products Phone cards, long shelf-life foods and sheet Thermoforming Cobelplast for form-fill-seal lines 15% Personal care, automotive, agrochemicals, Blow Moulding Blow Moulding 2011: 292m food & drink, long shelf-life foods Group Overview Group Performance RPC is a leading supplier of rigid plastic In 2011 12 the Group delivered another strong packaging with operations in 18 countries.
The financial performance, reflecting not just the business, which comprises 50 manufacturing full year impact of the Superfos business but sites and six separate distribution and sales margin and operating profit improvements in centres, converts polymer granules into the existing businesses.
This was achieved finished packaging product by a combination in spite of generally tough market conditions of moulding and assembly processes.
It is which adversely impacted a number of the organised around the three main conversion markets in which the Group operates.
However processes used within the Group, each site continued investment in innovative product being managed within one of seven clusters development with key customers and the which are defined along technological and further growth in sales of higher added value market lines.
products of 15% on a like-for-like basis have more than compensated for these effects.
Each cluster has on average seven manufacturing sites, operating across a wide geographical area for reasons of customer proximity, local market demand and manufacturing resource.
Each plant is run autonomously, commensurate with maintaining overall financial control and effective coordination in each market sector.
Hence every cluster and most operating siteshave a separate management team headed by a cluster or general manager.
This structure encourages focus on business issues and delivers enhanced performance.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Dose Indicator Pharmaceutical RPC Formatec has over 30 years The benefits: Bringing packaging to life experience in the development technological development Innovative device enables usage and manufacture of high quality ofinhaler to be monitored Customer: Various inhalation systems.
One of the Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming Hi-tech design and manufacture Product: Dose Indicator companys more recent innovations is the DoseIndicator which enables Can be integrated into existing Process: Injection Moulding patientsto track accurately and dosingaerosols reliably the number of doses taken from their inhaler.
Aswell as being available for all new inhalers, theDoseIndicator can be easily integrated intoexisting dosing aerosols with onlyslight modification of the mouthpiece.
The patented DoseIndicator is FDAapproved.
RPCs innovative Dose Indicator clearly shows the usage of the inhaler RPC Group Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operating review continued Considerable progress was made in Atthe same time the Group announced that it Adjusted operating profit integrating the Superfos business during the would also exit, either through closure or sale, year and it now operates as a standalone from its automotive components business in cluster.
The UK site at Runcorn will be closed Germany which had become loss making over 93.5m in June 2012 with its business successfully recent years in a highly competitive market.
transferred to other sites within the UK Exceptional redundancy and impairment Injection Moulding cluster.
The alignment costs of 12.6m have been charged in the 68% of purchasing contract terms to those used year relating to both of these withdrawals in the rest of the Group, together with other and further costs will be incurred in 2012 13.
2011: 55.8m reorganisation and efficiency improvements, It is anticipated that proceeds from asset have already realised 10m of the 15m sales together with the release of working Superfos synergies to date to 25m of steady state cost and revenue capital will be more than sufficient to fund synergies identified, ahead of initial estimates anyredundancy costs.
for the first year of ownership.
A further 5m of Revenue for the year increased by 38% to 10m cost and revenue synergies is expected to be realised in 2012 13.
1,130m due to the inclusion of the Superfos The Group incurred 6.4m of exceptional business and 5% growth in like-for-like sales.
charges in making these changes, mainly As sales volumes, measured in polymer tonnes 20m cash relating to redundancies and impairments at converted, were at similar levels year on year, Runcorn together with other cost saving and the growth was achieved through higher integration costs.
Circa 20m of cash synergies selling prices due to sales mix improvements with respect to working capital reduction had and the pass-through of higher polymer prices been realised by March 2012 of which 12m to customers.
The adjusted operating profit were already achieved in the previous year.
reached a record 93.5m 2011: 55.8m driven As part of the ongoing review of its businesses by the impact of Superfos and its related and their market positions, in January 2012 synergies and improved profitability of the the Group announced its intention to exit the pre-acquisition business.
Increased levels of vending cup business in mainland Europe.
sales in higher added value products such as The market for plastic vending cups had been long shelf-life food packaging, pharmaceuticals severely hit by the recession over the last and coffee capsules compensated for couple of years and the structural oversupply lower activity levels in sectors such as paint in this market had led to both margin erosion containers, industrial products and vending and volume losses.
In addition, margins were enhanced was made to withdraw from the market in by amore stable polymer market although mainland Europe.
However the Group enjoys polymer prices did rise to record levels in the a strong market position in vending cups in the last quarter of 2011 12.
UK and remains committed to this business.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 As a consequence of the above and through The overall innovation capabilities across the Outlook selective capital investments and a continued range of conversion technologies combined The outlook for the Group remains positive focus on working capital management, the with the ability to continue to invest and the with good growth opportunities existing both Group achieved a ROCE of 19.1% which is geographical reach of the Group provides RPC in more mature European and US markets significant progress towards achieving its with a significant competitive advantage.
as well as emerging markets.
Following the stated target of 20% within the first three years The Groups commitment to growing higher successful integration of Superfos and the of ownership of Superfos.
added value products and investment in planned withdrawal from the loss making New Product Development innovation was reflected in its higher levels businesses of vending cups in mainland of capital expenditure, which at 72m were Europe and automotive components in RPC remains at the forefront of polymer significantly ahead of the depreciation level Germany, the Group has improved its conversion technology in the packaging of 45m.
The Group remains committed to competitive cost base and strengthened industry and has developed an enviable invest in projects that are innovative, provide its leading market positions.
The Group is reputation in the market place for innovative a competitive advantage and generate on track to achieve its targeted ROCE of packaging design and concepts.
In the itsdesign and development facilities, the short term the Group is contending with a Group is able to develop unique packaging Segment Performance difficult and uncertain macro-economic solutions that meet the needs of individual A review of the operational and financial environment whilst the current weakness of customer demands.
performance of the Injection Moulding, the euro against sterling should be noted as Good progress has been made in developing Thermoforming and Blow Moulding a significant part of the earnings are made lightweight injection moulded products, most businesses is provided on pages 16 to 21. in the euro zone.
The new financial year has recently in the paint containers business, with started satisfactorily with results in line with Non-financial KPIs both the UK Injection Moulding cluster and management expectations.
Superfos developing new technologies in this RPC has three main non-financial key area.
In thermoforming, the Group is among performance indicators KPIs.
From an the worldwide leaders in the production of environmental and cost control perspective multi-layer, high barrier trays and tubs for electricity usage per tonne produced and R J E Marsh oxygen sensitive foods thereby replacing water usage per tonne produced are measured.
Chief Executive long shelf-life packaging in other materials From an employee welfare perspective with lightweight plastic alternatives, such reportable accidents are monitored.
aspackaging for baby food, sauces and ready The Group continues to make stringent efforts meals.
In blow moulding, developments in to improve its efficient usage of electricity the multi-layer bottle and jar market continue and water, with part of the improvement to move forward where there is a potentially this year attributable to the inclusion of the significant opportunity for substitution of glass Superfos sites in the reported figures.
The by plastic due to its weight reduction and a reportable accident frequency rate improved more favourable carbon footprint.
significantly as a result of concerted efforts to raise awareness of the importance of health andsafety matters throughout the Group.
Non-financial KPIs Water usage per tonne L t Reportable accident freqency rate Electricity usage per tonne kWh t 1,803 1,781 1,695 967 935 2,005 1,491 1,856 1,864 1,389 825 1,837 1,788 769 706 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Electricity usage per tonne Water usage per tonne Reportable accident frequency rate Electricity usage per tonne is the ratio of electricity used Water usage per tonne is the ratio of water used to the Reportable accident frequency rate is defined as the tothe number of tonnes produced.
number of accidents resulting in more than three days off work, excluding accidents where an employee is travelling to or from work, divided by the average number ofemployees, multiplied by the constant 100,000.
RPC Group Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operating review continued Injection Moulding Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming Injection Moulding Injection Moulding 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 m m Revenue 657.7 369.0 Adjusted operating profit 66.8 30.9 Return on sales 10.2% 8.4% Return on net operating assets 28.2% 26.0% The business comprises the UK Injection thecluster benefited from moving to a sole Revenue Moulding UKIM, Bramlage-Wiko and supply position with a major customer, Superfos clusters.
Overall the injection whilst further efficiencies were achieved moulding business performance was by increasing production at the Slovakian 658m very strong over the year, with sales and manufacturing facility.
Significant growth operating profit significantly higher due to opportunities have arisen in the USA, again the inclusion of a full year of trading of the based on the Groups leading technological Superfos business.
The increase in operating position.
During the year, the cluster 78% profit was due to the additional Superfos concluded a strategic review of its automotive 2011: 369m profitability, realisation of the associated components business at Neutraubling synergies and like-for-like profit improvement Germany resulting in the decision to exit Adjusted operating profit driven by growth in the personal care and fromthis highly competitive non-core market.
pharmaceutical sectors, offsetting volume Superfos manufactures and distributes open reductions in paint containers.
top filled injection moulded containers and has 66.8m The UKIM cluster, which comprises five sites manufacturing facilities in France, Belgium, in the UK, serves a wide range of customers in Spain, Poland, Denmark and Sweden, with the food, health care and DIY markets.
Overall joint ventures in Turkey and North Africa.
sales volumes were slightly down compared Although sales volumes in southern Europe 116% with last year, with volumes still being affected were subdued due to the weak macro- 2011: 30.9m by weak demand in the DIY retail sector and economic environment, particularly within the relatively low level of activity in the UK the paint and industrial products segments, housing market.
The main focus for the cluster overall margins were strong as the polymer Key markets has been the integration of the Superfos site purchasing and other synergies started to Paints & surface coatings at Runcorn into the cluster.
Its integration into the RPC Group of its profitability its closure was confirmed in has progressed very well with Superfos now Coffee capsules October, with the business being transferred operating as a standalone cluster and with Cosmetics toother sites within the UKIM cluster.
This was key management retained.
Purchasing of DIY products achieved within the agreed timeframe and raw materials has been centralised at Group with no adverse impact on customer service.
level whilst the necessary central overhead Food cost reductions have been effected.
Growth Margarine & spreads Bramlage-Wiko, which operates in opportunities in light-weighting and barrier Germany, France, Belgium, Slovakia and Personal care products are being actively pursued as is the the USA, continued to experience strong future delivery of cross-selling opportunities Pharmaceuticals volume growth, mainly due to increased across the relevant geographical areas.
levels ofnewproduct development in Promotional products pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and personal Soups & sauces care.
In these areas the Group is well Tablet dispensers & inhalant devices positioned to take a significant share of new business opportunities through its strong market position and leading technological know-how.
In the pharmaceutical segment Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 SuperLock Arachidi SuperLock, developed by the RPC The benefits: Bringing packaging to life Superfos cluster, offers a plastic InjectionMoulding Greater cost-efficiency container with excellent barrier Customer: Murano SpA Longer shelf-life protection for long shelf-life, Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming Product: SuperLock combinedwith a great design Flexible design possibilities includinga see-through area that Process: Injection Moulding Single material for easy recycling alsoreduces the risk of breakage.
The twist off lid ensures trouble-free Lower carbon footprint opening and re-closure, along with straight sides which provides easy access to all ofthe content.
RPC Group Plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operating review continued Thermoforming Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming Thermoforming Thermoforming 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 m m Revenue 287.7 281.4 Adjusted operating profit 13.7 14.7 Return on sales 4.8% 5.2% Return on net operating assets 20.0% 22.0% The thermoforming businesses comprise the For Cobelplast, the overall demand for sheet Revenue Bebo retail food packaging, Cobelplast sheet products was relatively flat compared with production and Tedeco-Gizeh food service last year, although the sales mix continues vending and disposables clusters and are to improve with growing sales in multi-layer 288m largely based in mainland Europe.
The overall sheet where the replacement trend of glass thermoforming business performance was and metal continues.
At Montonate Italy adversely impacted by a reduction in volumes a new line capable of producing PET sheet and deterioration in margins at Tedeco-Gizeh from post-consumer recycled PET flake was 2% where sales of vending cups suffered from successfully commissioned.
Demand in the vending cup market, which The Bebo cluster performed well during the is served by the Tedeco-Gizeh cluster, Adjusted operating profit year, completing the reorganisation of its continued to fall during the year and following thermoforming business in the Netherlands, a strategic review of the Groups position in and successfully transferring its operation this market, it was decided to exit the mainland 13.7m at Troyes France to a new, more efficient European vending cup market.
The margarine and spreads market a restructuring programme commenced is a significant part of its business and in January 2012 resulting in redundancies although sales volumes were flat overall and asset impairments at Deventer the -7% margins improved.
Most of the growth in the Netherlands.
Going forward, this site will be 2011: 14.7m cluster was generated from new business focused on production of convenience food developments in oxygen barrier packaging packaging and Dolce Gusto coffee capsules.
replacing glass and metal and Dolce Gusto The Group remains committed to the vending Key markets coffee capsules, which continue to grow cups market in the UK which is served from with further investment in the year in three itsPort Talbot site in Wales.
Margarine & spreads new production lines at Port Talbot UK and Coffee capsules additional lines at Bouxwiller France and Dairy market Deventer the Netherlands, required to keep up with customer and consumer demand.
Disposable products Sheet for form-fill-seal lines Fresh, frozen and long shelf-life foods Phone cards Vending & drinking cups Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Dolce Gusto Coffee capsules RPC Thermoforming is producing the The benefits: Bringing packaging to life unique single serve drinks capsules Thermoforming Innovative design forNestls revolutionary Nescaf Customer: Nestl Dolce Gusto system, which delivers Outer layer available in a variety Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming coffee shop quality beverages at home.
ofcolours Product: N escaf Dolce Gusto The capsules, which are the result of capsules Fully automated process a joint development project between Nestl and RPC Tedeco-Gizeh, meet Process: Thermoforming Long shelf-life two critical requirements to ensure a long shelf-life for the product and to be able to withstand the high pressure of the Dolce Gusto machine, which is the keyto delivering each drinks high quality taste.
RPC Group Plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operating review continued Blow Moulding Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming Blow Moulding Blow Moulding 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 m m Revenue 184.5 168.8 Adjusted operating profit 13.0 10.2 Return on sales 7.1% 6.0% Return on net operating assets 21.8% 17.7% The blow moulding operations are based both In the rest of the UK volumes were relatively Revenue in the UK and in mainland Europe.
Overall the subdued, the warm winter weather weakening blow moulding business performed well in the demand for fide-icing products and lower year as it continues to consolidate its market demand for standard containers used by 185m positions and benefits from the restructuring industrial customers due to the general activities of prior years.
improved again and adjusted operating Blow moulding product innovation during 9% profitincreased by 27% to 13.0m.
theyear included the new anti-glug bottle 2011: 169m There was strong demand in both food and for the motor oil market and in foods the non-food sectors with good volume increases development of the Eurosqueeze range at Corby UK, Gent Belgium, Montpont ofstandard multilayer bottles.
Adjusted operating profit France and Llantrisant UK.
The Corby business has particularly benefited from the strong demand for barrier blow moulded 13.0m plastic jars and bottles as manufacturing capability and technological innovation is helping to accelerate the conversion of 27% conventional glass and metal packaging to lighter weight plastic.
Rising demand from 2011: 10.2m the agrochemicals market improved the activity levels at Gent and Montpont whereas Key markets Llantrisant increased its sales through the gainof a major contract for PET containers.
Agrochemicals Automotive Food & drink Long shelf-life food Personal care Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Heinz Spaghetti Hoops Building on the success of its 1kg The benefits: Bringing packaging to life Heinz Beanz Fridge Pack, HJ Heinz has BlowMoulding Resealable augmented its range with Spaghetti Customer: Heinz Hoops in barrier jars from RPC Lightweight Corby and caps from RPC Halstead.
Product: Fridge Pack Shatterproof Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming The resealable jar provides portion flexibility and its size is the equivalent Process: Blow Moulding Shelf-life up to 15 months of nearly two-and-a-half standard size cans an average of five servings.
Single material for easy recycling Plastics lightweight and shatterproof qualities make the jar safe and easy to handle for family cooking.
At the same time, the choice of recyclable polymer ensures that Heinz can meet sustainability targets.
