Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 25 Operations review Latin America Latin America delivered a strong performance Latin America withlager volume growth of 9% 8% on an organic basis and soft drinks volumes improving by 10%.
This is attributable to our focus on the affordability of lager in a number of our markets, differentiated brand portfolios and the expansion of our premium segment, in the context of economic growth across the region.
Volume growth, combined with selective price increases and mix benefits, increased group revenue by 13%.
Higher commodity costs were partly offset by improved manufacturing efficiencies and continued distribution productivity gains.
Increased investment behind our brands was funded through ongoing fixed cost productivity improvements.
EBITA grew 15% and EBITA margin improved 50 bps up 70 bps on an organic, constant currency basis.
In Colombia lager volumes grew by 7% reflecting healthy consumer spending, the implementation of new marketing campaigns and our strategy of price guila Light Strong volume and EBITA Origin: Colombia restraint in mainstream brands.
Our share of the growth resulted from improving First brewed: 2002 alcohol market improved in the last quarter, ending www.
com affordability of key lager the year in line with the prior year, benefiting from increased marketing support and the narrowing brands, building our brand A lighter version of guila, the ofthe relative prices between lager and spirits.
classicColombian beer, guila Light portfolios and expanding Thelight beer category saw continued growth with isapopular option for the consumer thepremium segment.
looking to experience a lighter taste.
Our premium brands also grew robustly, with the local premium brand Karl Lippert franchise, Club Colombia, improving volumes by President, SABMiller Latin America 30% and new variants attracting consumers to the category.
Our non-alcoholic malt products saw double digit volume growth following the successful Financial summary 2012 2011 % introduction of a smaller pack for our brand, Pony Group revenue including Malta, and the addition of our new more refreshing share of associates US$m 7,158 6,335 13 malt brand, Maltizz.
EBITA US$m 1,865 1,620 15 EBITA margin % 26.1 25.6 In Peru, our direct sales model Sales volumes hl 000 allowed us to capture growth Lager 41,596 38,266 9 Lager organic 41,264 38,266 8 opportunities while generating Soft drinks 17,418 15,809 10 operational efficiencies.
1 In 2012 before exceptional charges of US$119 million Peru had another good year aided by healthy being business capability programme costs of US$85 economic growth.
Lager volumes rose 10% as million and integration and restructuring costs of US$34 consumers continued to trade up from the informal million 2011: US$106 million being business capability alcohol sector.
The roll-out last year of our business programme costs.
capability programme enabled direct sales service model allowed us to capture growth opportunities Strategic focus areas while generating operational efficiencies and Drive strong top-line growth by expanding differentiated value propositions to our customers.
consumer occasions and entering adjacent As a consequence, lager market share grew in categories bothvolume and value share terms to 93% and Increase share of alcohol and capitalise 95% respectively.
Our flagship mainstream brand, ondifferentiated and expanded brand and Maltizz Cristal, increased volumes by 22% reflecting the Origin: Colombia package portfolios strong resonance of this brand underpinned by its First produced: 2011 Optimise and extend distribution network support of national soccer.
com andsales reach also performed well with volume growth of 22%, Protect our licence to trade and business All the natural goodness of malt is and the Cusquea brand extended its appeal sustainability encapsulated in this super-refreshing through a number of seasonal variants and its Pursue operational excellence and efficiency carbonated soft drink.
Maltizz has association with Peruvian heritage and the a unique taste that appeals to the inour businesses, optimising resources centenary of the rediscovery of Machu Picchu.
whole family and makes a pleasant andcosts Inthe soft drinks category we saw volume growth accompaniment to main meals.
of 34%, as our non-alcoholic malt brand, Maltin Power, benefited from campaigns highlighting its nutritional attributes.
26 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Operations review Latin America continued Ecuador saw lager volume growth of 7% as the In El Salvador domestic lager volumes saw expanded direct service model assisted with the doubledigit volume growth, driven by the more capture of new growth opportunities.
Lager market affordable bulk pack of our flagship mainstream share of alcohol rose to above 50%.
Our local premium brand, Suprema, tocycling the Sunday trading ban of June 2010, also saw healthy volume growth of 30%, which growth was driven by improved product availability together with the repositioning of Golden Light of cold beer at the point of sale and continuing inthe upper mainstream segment, significantly expansion of our presence in festivals and events.
As a consequence, our Our upper mainstream offering, Pilsener Light, alcohol market share increased to 32%.
Soft drinks sawvolume growth of 87%, supported by the volumes grew by 7%, mainly due to the success introduction of a larger pack.
Our local premium ofmultiserve packs.
In January 2012 we expanded brand, Club, further strengthened its position as into the non-alcoholic malt category with our theleading premium lager brand in Ecuador with brandActimalta.
volume growth of 15% through new activations and upsizing of the bottle.
The non-alcoholic malt brand, In Argentina we saw healthy volume growth Pony Malta, continued its success with its PET and ofourmainstream brand Isenbeck, which on smaller packs performing well, resulting in volume afullyear comparative basis grew by 13%.
Theintegration and upgrading of our capabilities inArgentina is progressing.
In Honduras lager volumes were up 9% versus theprior year.
Growth was underpinned by our Port Royal Origin: Honduras affordability strategy, in the traditional trade with First brewed: 1984 alarger multiserve bottle, and in the modern trade www.
com with affordable can pricing, for both mainstream brands, Imperial and Salva Vida.
The super Port Royal is a refined and refreshing premiumcategory saw healthy growth, with Miller premium beer with export quality.
Our alcohol market It is brewed to give a smooth, refined and ultra-refreshing flavour.
It is a sharecontinued to increase reaching a historic favourite brand in Honduras due to highof 53%.
Soft drinks volumes grew by 7% its outstanding image and reputation.
boosted by further cooler penetration and brand activations and the success of multiserve packs.
During the year welaunched Actimalta in the non-alcoholic malt category with good acceptance from our target consumers.
The juices and tea categories introduced last year saw volume growth of over 40%.
Our alcohol market share in Honduras continued to increase, reaching a historic high of 53%.
In Panama our lager volume growth of 2% and revenue mix benefited from the performance of premium brands, with Miller Lite and Miller Genuine Draft MGD showing strong acceptance amongst targeted consumers.
MGD has established itself as the leader in the super premium segment and Miller Lite the leader in the premium segment.
Mainstream brands Atlas and Balboa benefited from investment behind new brand campaigns and improved in-outlet execution.
Soft drinks volumes grew by 4%boosted by the milk category and a strong performance from sparkling soft drinks, through Club Premium Lager increased availability of cold products at the Origin: Ecuador pointofsale.
com Brewed to international standards using top quality ingredients, Club Premium is Ecuadors premium beer.
The Metcalfe Scarlett barley and super Sterier hops are aromatic and rich in essential oils giving the beer a unique quality appreciated by discerning drinkers.
