Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review and Growth Opportunities This section is presented according to the four The section outlines contract awards which are divisions, based around our principal markets: significant because of their value or their strategic contribution to our business.
Further details of UK & Europe these, as well as other medium and smaller-sized Americas contracts, can be found on our website AMEAA Australasia, Middle East, www.
Asia and Africa, and Global Services UK & Europe The UK & Europe division includes our frontline services in: Home Affairs encompassing justice-related operations, immigration and border security, and welfare : Health: Transport & Local Direct Services: and Defence & Science.
Defence Business Services, UK Environmental services, Sandwell, UK Prisoner Escort and Custody Services, London, UK UK & Europe operating review Home Affairs Revenue from ongoing activities grew by 2% to 2,494m 2011: 2,434m, Our operations across the Home Affairs market account for approximately and represented 51% of Group ongoing revenue 2011: 55%.
On an 20% of UK & Europe revenues.
organic basis, revenue also grew by 2%.
Adjusted operating profit from ongoing operations grew by 5% to 172.9m 2011: 165.0m, with the HMP Thameside, the new prison at Belmarsh West in London, became margin increasing to 6.9% 2011: 6.8%.
Including the impact of disposals, operational in 2012.
As one of the most technologically advanced prisons reported revenue declined by 1% to 2,561m 2011: 2,595m and in the world, it has, for example, advanced CCTV digital recording and Adjusted operating profit was broadly unchanged at 177.8m monitoring, the latest drug and contraband intervention equipment, 2011: 177.6m.
biometric key vending for staff, and in-cell IT for prisoner education and administration.
Currently HMP Thameside is a local Category B The return to organic revenue growth, after a marginal decline in 2011, establishment with an operational capacity of 900 convicted and remand reected the start of numerous new contracts that also reinforce our male prisoners, and the Ministry of Justice has recently announced that view of an improving outlook.
This more than offset the impact of Serco it will be expanded with the building of a new houseblock.
operating fewer contracts in the welfare to work market and ongoing government austerity which places pressure on areas of discretionary In the probation services market, which is expected to see substantial spend with Serco.
The margin performance reected the delivery of future development with the introduction of competition to improve operational improvements, largely offset by the effect of the start of services and efficiencies, Serco has been awarded the first UK contract.
new contracts particularly in the second half of the year.
The creation In partnership with the London Probation Trust, Serco is operating of a single UK & Europe division has involved significant organisational Community Payback, which requires offenders to undertake unpaid work change during 2012, both to increase our own efficiency and, crucially, for the community.
The partnership is providing an integrated service to support the delivery of better services for our customers.
In 2013, there to manage the approximate 15,000 offenders who receive non-custodial will be further activity to drive operational improvements and efficiencies.
sentences in London every year.
The four-year contract is valued in total at 38m, with this delivering savings to the taxpayer of over 30%.
40 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Our Payment by Results pilot at HMP & YOI Doncaster is also showing organisations and business leaders.
The estimated combined total value that it has real potential to reduce re-offending.
Typical of the many of the contracts over the initial two-year period is approximately 70m.
innovative interventions in place are the Families First Programme, which supports prisoners relationships with their partners and children, Health and Second Shot Productions, which teaches technical and creative Our operations across Health account for approximately 10% of skills in lming and graphic design.
Both of these programmes won UK & Europe revenues.
prestigious Butler Trust Awards in 2012.
A number of significant new health contracts began during 2012.
For the For the UK Border Agency UKBA, Serco commenced the delivery of the NHS in Suffolk, Serco commenced operations in October to provide a COMPASS project, providing accommodation, transport and associated wide range of community health services.
These include community services for asylum applicants in the northwest of England and in nursing, specialist nursing, management and operation of community Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Full Permit to Operate in both regions hospitals, speech and language therapy, specialist childrens services was awarded at the end of 2012 and Serco is now managing over 6,000 and community equipment services.
Serco is working with a range of NHS service users across 2,800 properties.
and third sector partners to create a unique model of integrated service delivery.
The three-year contract has a total value of approximately 140m.
In the welfare to work market, our Work Programme performance continues to rank Serco as one of the leading performers in securing In integrated facilities management FM services for the health market, successful job outcomes from the referrals made to our services.
Serco began a new contract for the East Kent Hospitals University Reecting our approach and performance in this market, Sercos NHS Foundation Trust, delivering services to three acute hospitals, two consortium was awarded a contract to deliver the National Citizen Service community hospitals and several small clinics in the area.
The contract across six regions in the UK.
Expanding our experience of working has a total value of approximately 140m over a maximum ten-year in partnership with the voluntary sector, Serco in association with the period.
For equivalent services at Forth Valley hospital, where Serco has National Youth Agency, UK Youth, Catch 22 and vInspired, will offer implemented a number of innovative technological solutions, we received 16- and 17-year olds from different backgrounds a six-week programme the highest level of recognition in the 2012 Global FM Awards for to develop life skills through community activities working with charitable Excellence in Facilities Management.
National Physical Laboratory, London, UK The Work Programme, Rhyl, UK Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 41 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review and Growth Opportunities UK & Europe GSTS Pathology, London, UK Northern Rail, UK Barclays Cycle Hire scheme, London, UK Elsewhere, we continue to transform the services at Braintree Community Our other UK rail franchises, Northern Rail and Merseyrail, are also Hospital, for which Serco became responsible in 2011, and our GSTS supporting growth in passenger numbers and continued strong pathology joint venture is delivering the necessary efficiency operational metrics.
At Northern Rail, our performance has led to improvements as it modernises services.
a further extension of the contract through to 1 April 2014.
Transport & Local Direct Services In July, Serco began operating a new contract for lifeline freight and Our operations across Transport & Local Direct Services account passenger ferry services to the Northern Isles in Scotland, building on for approximately 40% of UK & Europe revenues.
our experience of managing and transforming other critical local transport services such as Northern Rail and Scatsta Airport on the Shetland Our London transport contracts comprising the Docklands Light Islands.
Serco also has extensive operations in the international marine Railway DLR, the Barclays Cycle Hire scheme and trafc management market, including services for the Royal Navy through which it operates operations have all achieved excellent operational performance during more ships under the UK ag than any other company.
Serco continues to support growth in regular journeys as well as contract has a total value of approximately 350m.
annual events such as the London marathon, and successfully executed the significant additional workload involved in the Diamond Jubilee and In direct services for local authorities, a number of contracts were the 2012 Olympic Games.
The DLR in particular was a key part of the awarded during the year.
In April, Serco began providing refuse and London 2012 Games transport network, with the Stratford International recycling services for 127,000 households in the London Borough of Extension, opened last summer, adding four new stations and connecting Wandsworth, helping the council to meet Government recycling targets five Games venues.
According to Transport for London and the Olympic and reduce costs such as landll taxes.
The contract is valued at 44m Delivery Authority, during the period of the Olympic Games, the DLR over eight years.
Serco has been appointed to operate a new joint carried 7.2 million passengers up by over 100% on normal levels.
environmental services contract for Wycombe and Chiltern District On the busiest day, the DLR carried a record-breaking 500,000 people.
The integrated services include household waste, recycling Serco was named Light Rail Operator of the Year in 2012 and since collections and street cleansing, with the joint contract targeting the year-end our DLR contract has been extended to September 2014. operational efficiencies while increasing recycling rates across both In July, Barclays Cycle Hire rentals exceeded one million for the first time districts.
The initial seven-year contract is valued at approximately in any month.
Serco has also successfully rebid its waste and recycling services 42 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 contract and its landscapes and grounds maintenance services contract In April 2012 Serco began operating a new contract for the MoD to for Canterbury City Council.
In our provision of a comprehensive and high provide training and support to the British Army prior to deployment quality range of health, leisure, tness, wellbeing and community-focused on operations overseas.
Known as the Contemporary Operating services, Serco secured new contracts with North Down Borough Council, Environment Force, and awarded by Army Headquarters, critical Manseld District Council and Shropshire Council.
pre-deployment training includes language, cultural and operational environment skills, and the creation of realistic training conditions to Defence & Science prepare UK military forces for operations in Afghanistan and other theatres Our operations across Defence & Science account for approximately of operation around the world.
The contract runs to December 2014, 30% of UK & Europe revenues.
including an option year, and has a total value of approximately 55m.
Our management and operation of the Atomic Weapons Establishment, Our defence multi-activity contracts at RAF Northolt and RAF Brize as part of a joint venture with Lockheed Martin and Jacobs Engineering, Norton were expanded in the year.
Additional services include IT, vehicle has been achieving excellent results.
The contract is delivering value maintenance, expanded aircraft handling and the maintenance of two for money for the Ministry of Defence MoD whilst achieving excellent aircraft operating out of the Middle East using Sponsored Reserves.
performance in the quality and timeliness of our programme delivery.
We successfully rebid our multi-activity contract at RAF Cranwell, home In recognition of this, arrangements for the next pricing period through to the Royal Air Force College, which selects and trains all new ofcers to 31 March 2018 were successfully concluded.
The next five-year and aircrew and where we support 3,000 simulator hours and 5,500 ying period will see Sercos share of revenue expected to remain on average hours per year.
The combined total value of the expansions and rebid, at approximately 300m a year, although under the back-end weighted which have two to three-year terms, is approximately 30m.
A new agreed incentivisation arrangements, the earnings and margin rate contract for RAF Valley, supporting their crucial role in training fast jet in the initial years will be similar to those achieved in the initial years pilots for both the RAF and the Royal Navy, also became operational of the current pricing period.
Waste and recycling services, UK Multi-activity contract, RAF Brize Norton, UK NorthLink Ferries, UK Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 43 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review and Growth Opportunities UK & Europe Atomic Weapons Establishment, UK HMP & YOI Doncaster, UK Community health services, Suffolk, UK For Defence Business Services DBS, Serco was awarded a contract to UK & Europe growth opportunities provide an executive leadership team.
DBS provides corporate services The UK, which accounts for the vast majority of the divisions operations, for the MoD such as civilian human resources, finance, information shows signs of increasing activity and good growth potential.
Serco is working with DBS staff to transform the outsourcing supports the UK governments aim of achieving savings while organisation into a lean and effective shared services centre, building improving services and social outcomes.
The reform of public services on private sector best practice.
The contract is valued at around 36m provision is an ongoing process, but the Cabinet Ofce and spending over its initial four-year duration.
departments appear increasingly focused on bringing new opportunities to market.
At the National Physical Laboratory NPL, which has been managed and operated by Serco since 1995, the Centre for Carbon Measurement The 2012 reorganisation into a single division places Serco in a better was launched, ensuring the UK is a leading force in climate modelling, position to target future growth opportunities across the wider public global carbon markets and green technology.
Business and government sector, including where customers are looking for more end-to-end welcomed the project, highlighting its potential to reduce emissions and services that combine frontline capability with middle and back ofce stimulate the economy.
The government has, however, announced that operations.
In such instances, the UK & Europe division, as the our current ten-year contract with an original value totalling approximately relationship lead, will draw upon the skills and capabilities of the new 500m will not be extended beyond March 2014, as they will look instead Global Services division to deliver fully integrated services.
We continue at alternative structures for operation, investment and ownership of the to strengthen our brand and account relationships at all levels, including facilities.
Serco is proud of its record at NPL and its contribution to its central government, the devolved authorities in Scotland and London, development over the past 17 years.
in local government and in public service frontline organisations such as the police and NHS.
Serco is overseeing and delivering the Defence Science & Technology Laboratorys Dstl Helios programme, which will see the relocation of Home Affairs all of Dstls activities from Fort Halstead to Porton Down and Portsdown As part of opening up to competition existing public sector prison West.
The programme will help to support Dstls future strategic goals, operations, Serco was short-listed for two groups consisting of five protect their capabilities and provide additional cost benets, building prisons in total.
This is in excess of the maximum of four prisons that can on an already strong total facilities management partnership between be won under the competition structure.
Serco is therefore pleased to be Serco and Dstl.
proceeding to the next stage as the single remaining bidder for the South 44 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Yorkshire group, comprising three HM Prisons Moorland, Hateld and Transport & Local Direct Services Lindholme, and looks forward to further developing its bid to produce Sercos excellent credentials in transportation systems will support the compelling package of reforms for delivering cost reduction, selected future growth opportunities in the UK and other countries.
improvements to regimes and a working prisons model in these prisons.
For example, Serco has signed a cooperation agreement with Strmma Serco is also working with its customer to expand HMP Thameside, Tourism & Maritime to make a joint bid to manage and operate the ferry adding capacity under Sercos more modern and efficient design.
services in Stockholms archipelago and harbour from 2014.
As well as transferring skills and capabilities to new markets, we are pursuing further The Ministry of Justice is proposing to open up ancillary and throughexisting contract expansion, as has been demonstrated in our support the-gate resettlement services across the whole public sector prison of the growth of the Barclays Cycle Hire scheme in London.
We will also estate by spring 2015, rather than further prison-by-prison competitions.
be progressing with the rebid processes for our DLR contract, which runs This includes recommendations to transform offender rehabilitation, to 14 September 2014, and our Northern Rail contract, which runs to opening up the approximate 600m per annum probation market to 1 April 2014, while other potential opportunities may emerge as part competition and rapidly expanding the payment by results approach of governments future structuring of transport networks and services.
This is expected to provide significant opportunities for Serco.
In local government frontline services, growth in environmental services and other areas of integrated facilities management such as leisure The growing use of court fines is also expected to generate opportunities services are expected to emerge.
Reductions in funding and increased for our collection services business, as well as a larger opportunity for service demands from citizens are driving more interest in strategic the overarching management of compliance and enforcement that would partnering, service sharing and personalisation of services.
draw upon skills and capabilities from within the Global Services division.
Serco is currently in the process of rebidding its electronic monitoring Defence & Science contracts in England and Wales, with preferred bidder appointments The defence market is expected to develop further opportunities for expected later in 2013. support in areas such as infrastructure management, business process and whole enterprise outsourcing, and technical and engineering Health services.
Serco will also seek similar opportunities in the science market The UK health market is being driven by the impact of scal pressure and emerging markets for energy management.
and the proposed structural reforms, which require increased introduction of competitive forces.
In clinical services, we are developing opportunities Developing from Sercos operation of Defence Business Services and to operate both hospital and community-based services.
For example, supported by the skills and capabilities of the Global Services division, our new innovation partnership with South Warwickshire Foundation we will be pursuing opportunities for strategic partnerships such as the Trust will seek to use the expertise and skills of both organisations to Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO.
The DIO is responsible for improve the care delivered to patients, while delivering best value.
managing and maintaining land and property for the MoD in the UK and This partnership approach will enable the Trust to deliver benets more abroad, with the potential for further efficiencies to be achieved across its quickly to patients, building on existing arrangements such as the Anglia operations.
A similar opportunity is for the Defence Equipment & Support Support Partnership.
Initial discussions between the organisations started division, which is currently going through further review as to how a following a shared vision and interest in working with George Eliot NHS competitive process could be run.
Hospital Trust on their plans for the future.
Serco has formed a partnership with two other leading nuclear companies, Our frontline health services business has already had success in working CH2M HILL and AREVA, to participate in the Nuclear Decommissioning closely with the Anglia Support Partnership shared services operations, Authoritys competition to oversee management of decommissioning led by the Global Services division.
This has seen growth by providing activities at 12 UK nuclear sites.
The CAS Restoration Partnership brings additional occupational health and counselling services and a separate together the unparalleled UK and international expertise of its three clinical strategic procurement contract.
Further growth through this partners across nuclear operations, site management, decommissioning strategic partnership framework is being pursued.
The Department of Health currently spends 12bn per annum on Serco has successfully expanded the scope of existing contract community-based services, and this is anticipated to grow given the relationships to broaden its services.
For example, within the scope changing nature of care and patient demographics.
The Departments of the original Dstl contract, options can be exercised for additional national Transforming Community Services guidance stipulates that Target Services and in 2012 Serco added the provision of an end-to-end all primary care trusts will no longer directly provide community services procurement service for laboratory assets across Dstls three core sites.
and will instead commission them.
Serco therefore anticipates building Serco will pursue further contract expansions in the future, to continue on its Suffolk contract award.
driving additional value for our defence and science customers.
There is a growing market for enabling services both in the UK and elsewhere around the world that combine facilities management, support services and patient administration to improve service quality and productivity in hospitals and other health establishments.
At our GSTS pathology joint venture, the management team has been further strengthened in the year with the appointment of an independent Chairman.
This role is integral in helping GSTS take forward its strategy for modernising NHS pathology and implementing its plans to deliver growth of the business.
GSTS has recently been successful in bidding to provide pathology services to the NHS Midlands & East Strategic Health Authority cluster.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 45 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review and Growth Opportunities Americas Our Americas segment provides professional, technology and management services focused primarily on the US federal government, including every branch of the military, a broad range of civilian agencies and the National Intelligence community.
We also provide services to the Canadian government, selected US state governments and municipal governments.
Electronic parking, San Francisco, US Ship board installation for the US Navy US Navy logistical support Americas operating review significant cost reduction was undertaken in 2011, allowing margins Revenue on a constant currency as well as on an organic basis declined to be held at the time.
While cost actions have continued, the challenging by 14%.
Revenue on a reported currency basis, given the marginal market conditions have led inevitably to lower margins in 2012, with this strengthening of the US dollar, fell by 13% to 753m 2011: 868m and likely to continue while the difficult and uncertain environment persists.
represented 16% of Group ongoing revenue 2011: 19%.
Adjusted operating profit reduced by 24% on a reported currency basis to 55.2m While revenues have reduced due to the market conditions, new task 2011: 73.0m, with the margin decreasing to 7.3% 2011: 8.4%.
orders, contract awards and rebids continue to be secured in numerous areas that are less affected by the general budgetary challenges.
The US federal contracting market has remained very difficult.
The decline in revenues reects challenges that have faced the US governments Sercos US Army Career and Alumni Program ACAP contract secured scal 2012 and 2013 annual federal budgeting processes, with a series of two expansions during the year.
ACAP services include transition and Continuing Resolutions again being necessary due to political difficulties employment assistance counselling for military personnel at 54 ACAP in reaching agreement on budget funding.
Both the Department of Defense locations across the United States, Korea, Italy, Kuwait and Germany.
and civilian agencies have been facing cuts, with the threat of these being Under the program, Serco has served more than 2.3 million active on an automatic basis via a mechanism known as sequestration.
These personnel, their families and members of the Guard and Reserves for over factors have severely disrupted the industry, with government agencies two decades, with this now expanding to extend support to Guard and further postponing contract award announcements, delaying work under Reserve members who are not able to visit an ACAP Center for services.
existing contracts and cancelling or reducing the scope of many contracts Sercos second expansion includes the addition of financial planning and task orders.
The Bureau of Economic Analysis reported that, with the counsellors at ACAP Centers around the world.
The two expansions threat of sequestration looming, in the final quarter of 2012 the Federal over the two remaining option years are valued in total at US$54m.
governments defence spending was down 22%, the biggest reduction for 40 years.
Further pressures have included an increase in small In the area of mission critical logistical support services, Serco began business set asides in Sercos served markets that restrict our ability to a new contract valued in total at US$57m over a maximum three years.
be prime contractor in some cases, and the Federal government shifting This supports the United States Forces Afghanistan USFOR-A base to awarding primarily on a methodology of Lowest Price Technically closure and transition initiative through the coordination of logistics and Acceptable rather than Best Value.
deconstruction of bases throughout Afghanistan.
Similar to the services 46 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 we provided in Iraq, Sercos Base Closure Assistance Teams BCATs Serco provides a range of other mission-critical engineering and IT are assisting military units with the key aspects of redeployment.
Serco services to the Department of Defense under the C4ITSR contract vehicle.
also provides logistics expertise to the US Army under the Logistics These services include engineering, systems integration, hardware Civil Augmentation Program LOGCAP, where we provide programme procurement, software development, technical support, installation testing management, cost analysis, logistics planning and administrative services operations and maintenance.
Additional task orders awarded in the year around the world in support of the United States and allied forces during were valued in total at US$59m.
During the period Serco was also operations.
Additional task orders awarded in the year were valued in ofcially granted ISO IEC 20000 certication, which measures our total at US$12m.
approach and capability in delivering world-class IT managed services.
Also for the US Army, we have been awarded a new contract for a full Serco also secured important rebids and extensions for defence and range of technical support services to assist in forecasts that reect the security customers.
Serco signed a one-year extension valued at changes in the political and military climate.
The contract has a total value approximately US$100m for its contract with a US intelligence agency, of US$9m over a maximum of five years.
Under an IDI4 vehicle with the where we provide IT architecture, systems and systems engineering, US Navy, Serco has been awarded a US$11m task order for similar work financial management and procurement support, risk management to provide forecasting models to support Navy personnel readiness.
Our contract to support Under the same IDI4, a further US$4m task order has been awarded undersea surveillance for the US Navy was successfully rebid at to provide counsellors in support of wounded Sailors and a total value of US$19m over a maximum of five years.
Beyond our defence and security work, Serco has also rebid and Serco was awarded a new production and engineering services contract extended other important relationships.
For the San Francisco Municipal for the US Navy to support Automated Digital Network Systems ADNS.
Transportation Agency, under a five-year US$43m contract Serco will Serco will perform hardware integration and testing to deliver the Navys continue to provide a range of parking related services, infrastructure and newest ADNS conguration on shore, ships and submarines.
The contract systems support including deploying GPS vehicle tracking technology.
has a total value of US$68m over a maximum of five years.
For Seminole County Florida, Serco has rebid its management and maintenance services contract for a 2,200 vehicle and equipment eet, Serco was awarded a new contract to upgrade Command, Control, worth US$20m over five years.
For the Federal Retirement Thrift Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Technology, Surveillance and Investment Board, Serco will continue to support the US government retirement plan delivering records management and processing solutions Reconnaissance C4ITSR equipment and systems on Mine Resistant in an extension valued at US$26m over a maximum two years.
For the US Ambush Protected MRAP vehicles for the US Air Force, US Army, US Marine Corp and US Navy.
The installation is being carried out on-site Patent and Trademark Ofce, where Serco will now classify approximately in Afghanistan, Kuwait and 4atar, enabling immediate deployment 1,500 patent applications a day, our contract has been extended and with Serco also providing in-country maintenance support services.
expanded, valued in total over three years at US$43m.
Sercos longThe 15-month contract, awarded under the Sea Enterprise IDI4 contract standing work with United States Citizenship and Immigration Services vehicle, has a nine-month base period and a six-month option period with has been extended to manage and process an additional two million a total value of US$73m.
Serco provided additional services under this records as a result of an Executive Order issued by President Obama IDI4 contract vehicle to the US Navys Space and Naval Warfare Systems in support of Immigration 4ualications, Deferred Action for Childhood Command SPAWAR, with task orders awarded in the year valued Arrival.
This two-year extension is valued in total at US$25m.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 47 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review and Growth Opportunities Americas Personnel and family support services Air trafc control services, US Logistical services for the US Navy, Virginia, US to the US Army Americas growth opportunities Serco continues to focus on markets that we expect will receive ongoing The federal contracting market is likely to face continued attrition due funding support, and on assisting government customers to achieve to the ongoing budget uncertainty and the protracted challenges facing greater efficiencies and higher productivity with constrained resources.
Congress in dealing with the growing national debt.
The threat of Our key areas are: Logistics & Program Management: Communication sequestration, as originally included in 2011s debt ceiling deal, was due & Information Systems: National Intelligence: Human Capital Management: to take effect from 2 January 2013 unless some form of agreement was Business Process Outsourcing: and Transportation & Asset Management.
reached by the government on tax and spending issues, but received US government agencies are increasingly using multi-award contract a short-term postponement.
Current federal funding is also continuing vehicles to issue task orders on a rapid-cycle, competitive basis.
to operate under short-term Continuing Resolutions, which often limit Continuing to qualify for and win business under such IDI4 contract commitments to new programs.
As a result, the outlook for spending vehicles will be a key contributor to Sercos growth.
on government services remains both unclear and severely challenged.
Industry studies suggest the total budget addressable by government In IT services and solutions, Serco is one of 54 awardees on a contractors could decline by approximately 10% or more annually government-wide acquisition contract GWAC with a ceiling value in 2013 and potentially beyond until the cycle turns.
of US$20bn over a ten-year period.
Serco will bid on a range of task orders for all federal civilian and Department of Defense agencies that As is normal for our Americas division, there is a higher frequency of require services and solutions including biomedical IT systems, cloud rebids than is typical for our operations elsewhere around the world.
computing, cybersecurity, mobility, telecommunications, and data centre The development of our business will also be shaped by the successful consolidation.
Serco is one of seven recent awards on a new SPAWAR outcome of rebids within a challenging market environment.
Important Systems Center SSC Atlantic Pillar Multiple Award Contract MAC short-term extensions have been secured as noted, while other for Production, Installation and In-Service PII support.
This MAC significant rebids are due over the next 12 months such as Ontario has a potential ceiling value of US$900m over a maximum of five years, Driver Examination Services, the National Visa Center, the Federal and enables Serco to bid on task orders to provide PII support, life-cycle Retirement Thrift Investment Board and the Department of logistics, training and large scale integration to deliver engineering, Veteran Affairs.
48 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Serco is also one of eight awards on a new MAC supporting SSC with changes to the size and shape of the armed forces.
As a result of the integrated Command and Control C2 engineering and technical support US governments Affordable Care Act, we see opportunities to deliver services for command centres.
This MAC has a potential ceiling value solutions supporting patient satisfaction requirements and health of US$145m over a maximum of three years.
BPO opportunities with federal and other customers will be pursued to deliver enhanced service and more Serco has been awarded a place on the new Consultant, Advisory, cost-effective solutions.
We plan to leverage our strong capabilities in and Technical Services CATS contract vehicle that will provide support economic cost analysis and programme management to support the services to the US Air Force Medical Service AFMS at 69 Air Force Department of Defenses drive for cost savings.
The transportation Medical Treatment Facilities in the United States and its territories.
market is expected to provide opportunities for our air trafc control, Serco is among 13 award winners on the IDI4 contract, which is valued trafc management systems and other transport infrastructure and at US$985m over a five-year period.
Serco will compete for task orders operational management skills and capabilities.
We will also continue for Advisory & Assistance Services A&AS that will help reduce critical to review markets in both North America and South America for potential workload demands being placed on the AFMS.
Services will include to transfer more of Sercos skills and capabilities.
support in the areas of healthcare administration, executive assistance, financial analysis, business process consulting, policy analysis, engineering and technical services.
Serco Americas pipeline includes numerous further areas of longer term opportunity.
For our Navy customers, we expect growth through modernisation work to extend the service life of the existing eet.
The Department of Defense is expected to increase its focus on areas such as Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance ISR, unmanned ight, space and cybersecurity.
Human capital management and transformation programmes are widening in scope to support future Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 49 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review and Growth Opportunities AMEAA Our AMEAA segment consists of Australasia, Middle East, Asia and Africa, in which we provide a range of frontline services including transport, justice, immigration, health, defence and other direct services such as facilities management.
Air trafc control services, Baghdad, Iraq Dubai Metro, Dubai, UAE Passenger information and support services, Perth, Australia AMEAA operating review with both parties working closely to maintain a safe and stable network Revenue on a reported currency basis grew 31% to 883m 2011: 672m, of centres, responding with humanity and respect in the operation and represented 18% of Group ongoing revenue, up from 15% in 2011. of this sensitive contract.
Revenue on a constant currency basis grew by 30%.
Excluding the contribution from acquisitions, revenue on an organic basis grew by 22%.
A number of other contract awards in Australia generated incremental Adjusted operating profit grew by 25% on a reported currency basis to revenues.
Sercos operation of Court Security and Custodial Services 64.3m 2011: 51.4m, with the margin decreasing to 7.3% 2011: 7.6%.
for the Western Australian Department of Corrective Services was fully operational, achieving over 30,000 client movements in the year.
A new The very strong organic growth reects revenue from new contracts contract valued at A$50m over five years with potential to extend to 15 begun in 2012 and those that had started but were not fully operational years in total for the new Wandoo Integration Facility in Western Australia throughout 2011, as well as the expansion of existing contracts, became fully operational in November 2012.
Serco also expanded the particularly an increase in the amount of work undertaken for the scope of its contracts at Acacia Prison in Western Australia and for the Australian Department of Immigration and Citizenship DIAC.
The new South 4ueensland Correctional Centre, which replaced the previous reduction in margin principally reects the return to a more normal level facility at Borallon.
In New Zealand, Sercos operation of the Mount Eden of margin on the DIAC contract.
Corrections facility in Auckland successfully completed its first full year.
In Immigration Services in Australia, the level of irregular maritime arrivals The pre-operational phase of the new-build Fiona Stanley Hospital in has increased in 2012, leading to a growth in the number of people in Perth has continued to see Sercos involvement grow.
Plans are on track our care.
In response, we successfully managed the opening of new for the opening in 2014, at which point Sercos full facilities management detention centres in the Northern Territory and Western Australia.
The level and support services contract to ensure the smooth running of the whole of our future activity is still likely to uctuate based on country conditions hospital will begin.
The first phase of recruiting over 1,000 non-clinical in the Middle East and Asia, where most people in our care originate, staff required to operate the hospital has already begun.
In our transport and the prevailing government policy, speed of visa processing and the operations, Great Southern Rail, in adverse conditions for the Australian application of the Australian governments recent off-shore processing tourism market, has continued to hold revenue broadly stable through legislation.
Serco has a very strong customer relationship with DIAC, additional operating investment.
The business was presented with the 50 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Service Excellence award at the 2012 Australian Business Awards, while In the Middle East, service on the Dubai Metro has continued to see The Ghan was voted best luxury rail journey worldwide in Luxury Travel world class operational standards, with 99.9% of all trains on time and Magazine for the third year running.
the Roads and Transport Authority reporting a record number of Metro passengers in 2012, up by 58% on 2011.
During the year, Serco also DMS Maritime, our defence and marine services business, has continued added engineering and maintenance responsibilities required to support to show good organic growth.
As one of Australias largest maritime network expansion.
Our logistics and base support operations in the service operators, it has facilities in every major port and a technical region for the Australian Defence Force successfully completed their first support network that extends a wide range of engineering and technical year of operations, whilst our integrated facilities management operations services across Asia Pacic.
DMS Maritime manages, operates and in the region have also delivered strong growth.
maintains over 600 vessels in the region, with commercial, defence and government agency customers including the Royal Australian Navy and the Australian Customs & Border Protection Service.
Towards the end of the year, Serco completed the purchase of the remaining 50% equity stake in the business from its joint venture partner, P&O Maritime Services.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 51 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review and Growth Opportunities AMEAA Fiona Stanley Hospital, Perth, Australia Immigration services, Australia Dubai Metro, Dubai, UAE AMEAA growth opportunities Dubai Airports Company, Serco will be providing the operations and The AMEAA region has experienced the fastest growth of our portfolio for maintenance for the new Automated People Mover at the airport.
a number of years and we continue to see good opportunities for further Numerous bidding opportunities throughout the AMEAA region are strong growth.
Our existing operations in Australasia, the Middle East and expected to support other road and rail operation and maintenance India each present prospects.
In addition, there is further growth potential contracts, as well as trafc management systems.
from expanding into new regions as emerging market governments take steps to adopt international best practice in procurement processes, Serco is also a global leader in air navigation, and sees opportunities to support their social infrastructure improvement programmes.
to expand services both within the region and into new geographies.
For example, in 2012 Sercos management of Iraqi airspace at Baghdad In the justice sector, we see further opportunities in the operation of International Airport was expanded to deliver air trafc control services new-build and existing prisons as governments deal with capacity and at Erbil in Iraqi Kurdistan.
Our ability to mobilise highly skilled aviation efficiency challenges.
For example, Sercos consortium signed a contract teams quickly is well established, and we are in discussions with a during the year to provide and operate the new Wiri prison in Auckland.
number of potential customers seeking a step change in air navigation Under the design, construct, manage and finance contract, Serco will safety, capacity and performance.
manage the new 960-place male prison for 25 years once it becomes operational in 2015.
The contract will deliver revenues of approximately Integrated facilities management contracts in the commercial and other 15m a year.
Related services such as court escorting also sectors are expected to grow, particularly given ongoing completion of represent opportunities.
major construction projects in the UAE.
Last years acquisition of a small regional specialist is delivering strong results.
Serco has also capitalised In transport, Serco is seeking to leverage its international expertise, on its new business development presence in the Kingdom of Saudi particularly in urban transportation and metro systems.
In India, Serco has Arabia.
Two new consultancy agreements will provide asset management been awarded its first frontline services contract to operate and maintain strategies to implement operational efficiency processes for building the new Bus Rapid Transit Services, a dedicated 11.3km bus corridor in maintenance and infrastructure.
the city of Indore in central India.
Further expanding our services with the 52 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Our defence business in Australia has a strong base from which to In the emerging and rapidly growing health markets in the region, expand services, including garrison and maritime support, training, governments are increasingly looking to involve private sector provision.
In the growing marine services market, Across the region, Serco will be pursuing potential opportunities for the our presence has been strengthened by our full ownership of DMS operation of hospitals and related services, building on the strength of our Maritime.
Serco will now be well placed to pursue more complex UK operations and the Fiona Stanley Hospital in Australia.
For example, opportunities that may emerge from new capability requirements for the Serco was also awarded a new support services contract for the Prince Australian Defence Force, to be detailed in its forthcoming White Paper of Wales Hospital, one of the busiest in Hong Kong with over 1,000 beds 2013.
It will allow Serco to fully leverage DMS Maritimes defence systems and complex facilities.
integration, supply chain management and through-life support capabilities across the maritime, land, systems and ultimately aerospace The AMEAA division will also be supported by the Global Services division domains.
DMS Maritime additionally provides Serco with a platform to in joint growth opportunities for its customers.
Relationships, skills and further expand the breadth of our marine services to the commercial capabilities will be pooled for opportunities such as providing shared maritime market.
This includes port infrastructure and related services to services to government departments.
the resources sector, driven by the ongoing high demand for commodities and energy.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 53 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review and Growth Opportunities Global Services In 2012, Serco created a new global BPO division, bringing together all of Sercos middle and back ofce skills and capabilities across customer contact, transaction and financial processing, and related consulting and technology services.
Global Services operating review Adjusted operating profit grew by 83% on a reported currency basis to The new Global Services division improves the services we provide to 62.1m 2011: 34.0m, with the margin increasing to 8.7% 2011: 6.7%.
customers and addresses a wider range of opportunities in both the The margin increase was driven principally by the contribution from the private and public sectors.
Customers around the world are increasingly higher margin Intelenet operations and significant private sector wins.
looking for end-to-end services that combine frontline capability with middle and back ofce operations, helping them to drive more efficiency Over the course of 2012, we concluded the significant programme of and better quality services.
In addition to seeking specic BPO integrating the acquisitions made in 2011, combining them with Sercos opportunities, the division will also work alongside the regional divisions existing strength in IT-enabled service delivery.
Tools such as Workforce to deliver fully integrated services for their customers.
The establishment Management have been rolled out, as well as standardising and and growth of Serco Global Services, with global annual revenues in strengthening all management and compliance procedures.
significant excess of $1.1 billion, places Serco as a top tier international investment has been made in IT integration, and this will continue to be BPO organisation.
a feature to place the business in the strongest position for future growth.
In 2013 there will also be further additional investment costs for new Revenue on a reported currency basis grew 40% to 716m 2011: 511m.
delivery centres and business development initiatives around the world, This represented 15% of Group ongoing revenue, up from 11% in 2011. supporting the strong pipeline of growth opportunities.
Revenue on a constant currency basis grew by 45%.
Excluding the contribution from acquisitions, principally Intelenet and Vertex, revenue In its first full year of Serco ownership, the former Intelenet operations on an organic basis grew by 12%.
In the previous year there were have met our expectations as set out at the time of acquisition.
Intelenet revenues from the Bradford education contract which transferred back has been a key part of the strong underlying revenue growth for the to the Council in September 2011, and from our Business Link services, whole of Serco Global Services.
As well as incremental revenues already the majority of which have now closed due to the government funding achieved, numerous major strategic wins made part way through 2012 cuts borne by the Regional Development Agencies.
Excluding these two will also support expected strong revenue growth into 2013. areas, underlying revenue growth for our new global BPO division has been over 30%.
54 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 In July 2012, Serco began operating a new ten-year contract for Shop Many other new private sector BPO operations began during 2012.
Direct Group, the UKs leading online and home shopping retailer, valued In retail, a 55m ten-year contract with Freemans Grattan Holdings in total at approximately 430m.
Serco has taken over responsibility for sees Serco delivering all aspects of customer contact services, including providing all customer contact services across Shop Directs brands.
The customer enquiries, inbound and outbound sales, credit applications, partnership will work together to signicantly enhance service levels and payments, order processing, white mail and e-mail handling.
Serco also efficiency through investment in the latest technology, such as web chat secured new relationships with two of the UKs most prestigious retailers, and mobile digital services, which are designed to seamlessly integrate to provide services including order line and customer management, online and mobile customer contact management.
Our solution combines while for a leading European media company Serco is providing frontline capabilities from the Intelenet and The Listening Company acquisitions, as customer contact, back ofce and specialist support from an expanded well as the additional scale advantage from Sercos other BPO operations.
service centre in Teltow, near Berlin, Germany.
These three contracts, which have three to five-year terms, have a total combined value of In November 2012, Serco began a new outsourcing partnership to approximately 50m.
provide customer contact and support services for AEGON, the leading life and pensions company, marking Sercos entry into this important Serco was awarded a new contract to provide multi-lingual customer segment of the financial services market.
The initial ten-year contract is contact services for leading European airline easyJet.
Serco has valued in total at around 170m.
Delivering a wide range of services for responsibility for the operation, administration and management of AEGONs UK-based protection business, Serco is managing all aspects easyJets multi-channel customer contact, delivered through a blend of of the customer journey from initial underwriting through to claims near-shore and off-shore provision from Poland and India.
This initial processing, as well as servicing a small number of closed-book policies.
three-year contract has a total value of approximately 18m.
Serco also Serco is responsible for the administration of approximately 500,000 began a wide range of customer sales services for British Gas in the UK, current and closed-book policies in total.
delivering customer acquisition activities for energy, domestic appliance and drain care services in a new three-year contract, valued in total at approximately 16m.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 55 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review and Growth Opportunities Global Services Other new contract awards include: support to a UK general insurance The Peterborough City Council strategic partnership, which had an initial provider to reduce their backlog of Financial Services Authority regulated value of 100m over ten years, saw the transfer of the in-house shared complaints: providing 1,800 customer contact employees and multiservice centre to Serco in late 2011.
Serco is already successfully growing channel services for a large banking and financial services company in this contract, with further services such as procurement being brought India: supporting the booking processes for travel and hospitality services into scope as part of the Councils transformation.
The Hertfordshire for an award-winning loyalty program on behalf of a leading US-based County Council operations which commenced in April 2011 have also global online travel company: and establishing off-shore delivery centres widened their scope, with staff numbers more than doubling and new to provide back ofce services such as indexing, invoice processing, operations such as the Adult Social Care Access Service now being claims adjudication and policy maintenance for a leading UK-based provided.
Additionally, Sercos property and IT joint venture with Glasgow healthcare insurance provider.
City Council, known as ACCESS, has seen information, communications and technology ICT support for the authoritys schools added to In the public sector, The Anglia Support Partnership ASP, which has its responsibilities.
an initial value of 120m over four years, began operating in April 2012.
This is Sercos first shared services proposition in the emerging market Other strategically important existing relationships were also developed for middle and back ofce support to the UK health sector.
Serco has extended and expanded its relationship with a support services include operational and specialist IT, finance operations, leading telecom provider in India for a further three-year term.
Providing employment services, contracts management, procurement, primary contact services and transaction support, the contract which began in care support services, occupational health, risk management, catering, 2006 from three delivery centres has expanded to ten today and handles and estates and property.
The framework agreement also permits the an average of 14 million calls and transactions per month.
Our expertise call-off of additional services and allows other NHS organisations to in this relationship also supported the award of a new contract with access services.
another leading telecom provider, where five delivery centres will provide contact services under this new relationship.
These three-year contracts on a combined basis have a total value of approximately 60m.
56 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Serco successfully renewed its contract with the Australian Tax Ofce In the public sector, the Global Services division is working alongside ATO to provide contact centre services to Australian taxpayers, the regional divisions to bid and deliver fully integrated solutions for their businesses and tax professionals across a diverse range of taxation and customers.
significant revenue synergies have already been achieved  issues.
Serco, in partnership with the ATO and where the Groups combined capabilities are able to transform public other suppliers, is responsible for providing advice and responding to services, and we expect more to emerge in the future.
enquiries relating to tax numbers, refunds, business activity statements, debt management, return submissions and tax information packs.
In June 2012, Serco acquired Vertexs UK public sector BPO operations, The renewed contract has an initial five-year term with a total value of bringing additional expertise and strategic partnerships to support approximately 90m.
Serco also successfully renewed its contract to expansion into new areas of middle and back ofce support, and at provide a comprehensive range of customer services for the National Rail the same time increase Sercos operational scale.
This will help develop Enquiries service in the UK.
The contract which has been operated by future opportunities in both the central and local government markets, Serco and the former Intelenet business since 2004 includes Help Point with Vertex bringing significant customer referenceability and specic support, customer care, enquiries and complaint handling across a range skills in HR and payroll, revenues and benets, complex case of channels including voice, email and web chat.
Responding to changing management and administration services.
Its 3,000 employees patterns of consumer engagement, this innovative five-year contract is handle approximately 4.5 million citizen interactions a year.
valued in total at approximately 10m.
In the UK, the government has recently set out how it intends to achieve Recognising the substantial amount of new business won during the year, efficiencies in shared service centres and has also set out the transaction Serco was identied as one of the top three global BPO service providers costs involved in providing services for citizens.
The Global Services by the leading BPO industry analyst rm NelsonHall in its 2012 BPO division would provide support in bidding for operations such as contact Index.
This index measures the performance of leading BPO service centre services, case management, identity verication, transaction providers based on the total contract value of wins achieved in 2012. processing, ICT, human resources and payroll, finance and accounting, Recognising the overall scale of our operations, we were also named and any other middle or back ofce support function that is required.
as one of the top 15 BPO providers within leading technology insights For example, for the Ministry of Justice, Global Services is providing and advisory services rm ISGs TPI Index.
support to the UK & Europe division for court fines and compliance and enforcement, electronic monitoring and prison management.
The future During 2012, our operations have continued to win various accolades development of the Ministry of Defences DIO opportunity, similar in nature to the DBS contract already led by the UK & Europe division, in the crucial area of employee development.
According to NASSCOMs would also see Global Services support, as would tenders expected ranking of IT-BPO employers in India, Serco Global Services is now the largest pure-play BPO business.
Awards in 2012 include recognition for the Home Ofce in areas such as visa services.
within Asias Best Employer Brand Awards and Indias Best Companies to Work For, the latter being for Best Company in Career Growth.
The ASP contract is expected to be a key enabler to growing Sercos combination of health support services and BPO operations.
We are Global Services growth opportunities already seeing growth in areas such as procurement services, and expect Serco has built significant capability in the fast growing, higher margin the framework agreement to support significant further growth.
Other BPO market, broadening Sercos customer and geographic reach.
opportunities in providing business services to NHS organisations are This has added scale and depth to provide private and public sector also being pursued.
customers with a range of end-to-end, integrated business services as they seek to reduce costs and improve efficiencies by transforming We recently signed a new contract to provide multi-channel contact their operations.
centre services to the Department of Health to cover a range of public health programmes.
Other central government shared service centre Sercos approach is increasingly recognised for leadership in opportunities are expected to be developed.
For example, the Department transforming a customers operations as opposed to simple lift and shift for Work and Pensions is assessing the case for a shared services centre solutions.
Sercos bids benefit from our substantial scale and global to process claims and payments.
There is also the potential to expand reach, in particular from the ability to provide a blend of on-shore, the scope of support for existing customers such as Job Centre Plus near-shore and off-shore service provision.
We are also a clear leader and emerging BPO opportunities for other agencies and departments.
in areas such as multi-channel customer contact services.
significant contract wins in 2012 such as Shop Direct and AEGON have Our work with local authorities to transform their services continues demonstrated these factors and provide excellent short-term growth to show a good pipeline of opportunities.
Local authorities are further into 2013 as these annualise, but importantly also provide strong developing their strategies based on a smaller proportion of services that referenceability for similar work in the future.
they deem to be core, thereby increasing the potential to outsource other non-core supporting operations.
Existing Serco strategic partnerships We are addressing a large number of private sector opportunities.
at Hertfordshire, Glasgow and Peterborough have all demonstrated the The significant pipeline of prospects continues to be spread across large potential for expansion, and the addition of the Thurrock and Westminster and diverse industry groups: Banking, Financial Services & Insurance: contracts previously operated by Vertex adds to our ability to increase Travel, Hospitality & Transportation: Retail, Healthcare, Utilities & the scope of services.
Research by YouGov supports the view that local Manufacturing: and Telecom, Technology, Online Services & Media.
authorities are looking for further outsourcing, with this increasingly focused on transformational change.
Our geographic reach both for customers and service centre locations has expanded to support future growth.
This has included new operations in Germany, South Africa and Saudi Arabia.
The latter, following our first centre launch in Dubai in 2011, supports further expansion in the largest economy in the Middle East.
Global Services also expanded its Indiabased Agra facility, further strengthening its dominant position in the Indian domestic BPO market.
The management team in the Americas region has also been strengthened to target significant growth opportunities.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 57 Our performance Financial Governance statements
