Directors report | Business review | Operating review 16 OPERATING REVIEW lower the cost base, and a difficult trading THESE ARE VERY GOOD RESULTS FOR environment for George Weston Foods.
The further decline in Ingredients profit was disappointing.
THE GROUP AND INCLUDE EXCEPTIONAL The major investment in our sugar businesses in recent years has been an PERFORMANCES FROM AB SUGAR AND important driver of the substantial growth in Sugar profits.
The acquisition of Azucarera PRIMARK.
GLOBAL ECONOMIC UNCERTAINTY in Iberia has proved to be a very sound investment and has been a key contributor REMAINS BUT WE HAVE OPPORTUNITIES to the increased profitability over the last two years.
The investment in capacity expansion across southern Africa is now FOR FURTHER INVESTMENT AND THE delivering better returns for Illovo and the development of our presence in China, STRENGTH OF THE GROUP BALANCE SHEET in both cane and beet sugar, has built a platform for future growth.
Our European AND A STRONG CASH FLOW WILL ENABLE businesses have benefited from rmer pricing and higher sugar production this year.
Although we expect prices in the EU to US TO PURSUE THEM WITH CONFIDENCE.
remain rm, profit in the coming year will be George Weston affected by reduced European production, Chief Executive as a consequence of lower yields, and higher beet costs for British Sugar.
Primarks result reects continued growth in the UK, including the opening of a agship store in Edinburgh, and a major step forward in continental Europe.
Retail selling space in Iberia was increased by almost half, our presence in Germany was strengthened by the opening of four large stores, and we continue to develop our regional distribution network with the opening of the Mnchengladbach distribution centre.
The excitement that continues to be generated by each new store opening and the sales densities that we are achieving in continental Europe afford us the confidence to believe that Primark is capable of much furthergrowth.
Once again, Twinings Ovaltine demonstrated its ability to generate strong revenue In 2012 the groups revenue increased by agreed between the businesses and the growth for both the Twinings and Ovaltine 11% to 12.3bn and adjusted operating centre.
Business performance is closely brands which resulted in higher profit.
profit was 17% ahead of the previous year monitored by the centre and capital is However, the continued pressure on exceeding the one billion pound mark for allocated to businesses where returns consumer disposable incomes in the the first time at 1,077m.
meet or exceed clearly dened criteria.
worlds developed economies created a This was an extremely good year but it AB Sugar delivered a further significant challenging environment for the businesses shouldnt be considered in isolation.
The improvement in profit this year driven by in Grocery.
To succeed in this environment compound annual growth of revenue and its European businesses and Illovo.
AB Agri it is important to be a low-cost supplier profit achieved over the last 10 years is matched last years record performance.
and the management teams in George 10% and 11% respectively.
This long-term Primark delivered excellent growth with a Weston Foods and Allied Bakeries made performance is a direct result of our business substantial increase in retail selling space good progress in reducing their cost base.
Our businesses are organised so that and like-for-like growth at the top of its peer The financial results reect the cost of this they are close to the markets and customers group.
In Grocery, Twinings Ovaltine, management action.
It was a difficult year they serve and the corporate centre is Jordans Ryvita and Silver Spoon achieved for the meat business in Australia but the consequently small.
Operational decisions good growth but overall profit was held new factory is now operating more are made by the businesses and strategy is back by restructuring charges taken to efficiently and the focus for the coming year will be on increasing volumes.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 17 SUGAR The effects of a combination of high input AB SUGAR IS A LEADING MULTINATIONAL costs and increased competition for yeast this year contributed to a further decline in margin for Ingredients.
We are committed to this IN THE GROWING MARKET FOR SUGAR business and have focused our attention on the need to develop a more differentiated AND SUGAR DERIVED PRODUCTS AND bakery ingredients proposition.
We made a number of management changes during the year, including the appointment of a new chief CO-PRODUCTS.
executive, and the strengthened team will drive the implementation of the new business proposition across the group.
Net capital investment in the group was 707m this year which included a higher level of expenditure for Primark on new In the EU, Azucarera is the major producer Revenue stores, and on the ret and extension of in Iberia and British Sugar is the sole existing stores, as we increased the retail processor of the UK sugar beet crop and selling space by 13%.
Continental Europe Europes most efficient producer.
Illovo is 2,666m accounted for the vast majority of this the largest sugar processor in Africa and is investment but selling space in the UK still one of the worlds foremost low-cost 25% increased by 5%.
The group also has substantial of the Vivergo bioethanol plant in Hull and businesses in China producing cane sugar continued the investment in efficient in the south and beet sugar in the north Adjusted operating profit production at Allied Bakeries.
The group currently operates 34 good progress with construction of the new plants in ten countries and is capable 510m yeast factory in Mexico and the relocation of producing some 5.5 million tonnes of of the Zhangbei sugar factory in China will sugar and 600 million litres of ethanol each be completed in time for processing the year.
It also has the capacity to generate 62% new seasons beet later this year.
In the power sufficient to meet most of its coming financial year we expect to maintain internal needs.
AB Sugar aims to achieve the level of investment in new stores for Adjusted operating profit margin growth through excellence in agriculture Primark but will see some reduction in the and operations, the application of new level of expenditure in the rest of the group.
technologies for the sustainable processing 19.1% of beet and cane, and the further Summary development of co-products.
The last financial year presented us with 2011, 14.8% a number of challenges, and continued AB Sugar made significant advances during weakness in the economies of our developed the year with revenue ahead by 25% and markets suggests that 2013 will also be profit up 62% reecting higher sugar Return on average capital challenging.
However, the diversity of the production and strong commercial markets employed groups operations, our commitment to new in the EU and Africa, and a continued focus product development, an exciting new store on performance improvement in agriculture 26.5% opening programme for Primark, the strength and processing.
profit in China was lower of the group balance sheet and a strong cash as a result of a weakening of sugar prices ow give us every reason to believe that during the year.
2011, 17.3% we can meet the challenges ahead In the UK, profit from British Sugar was well withcondence.
ahead of last year reecting the excellent George Weston campaign, higher sugar production and Chief Executive rmer prices.
The absence of the weatherrelated challenges of last year resulted in the production of 1.3 million tonnes of sugar compared with just under 1.0 million tonnes in 2011.
2012 marked the centenary of the UK beet sugar industry and also saw British growers delivering record beet yields.
While growers benefited from excellent conditions, the achievement of record yields for the fifth year out of the last seven confirms the progress the industry has made in harnessing applied science and innovation.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 18 SUGAR CONTINUED Investment in processing and a continuing because of a shortfall in cane supplies.
In in local currency terms.
The devaluation had programme of business improvement Zambia and Swaziland, which have both no material effect on profit when translated enabled a strong factory performance seen recent investment in production and into sterling.
This included the successful agricultural expansion, operations ran close As announced in July, the Mali government commissioning of the CO2 liquefaction to design capacity.
Positive market was unable to full its undertaking to fund facility at the Wissington sugar factory conditions, combined with a more the agricultural component of a project which utilises the CO2 produced during favourable rand dollar exchange rate, led to to develop Illovos sugar business in fermentation by the existing bioethanol plant.
When combined with the the economic environment in Malawi Improvements made by Azucareras growers deteriorating security situation, the project remains challenging and the kwacha was contributed to record Spanish beet yields.
risk was considered to have increased to an devalued on 7 May 2012.
Local sugar prices Combined with a continued focus on raising unsupportable level and the decision was were increased as a result of the devaluation factory performance and extraction rates, taken to terminate further involvement in which, together with higher export earnings, this resulted in the northern factories the project.
Illovos investment in premore than offset increased operating costs producing a total of 388,000 tonnes of sugar project expenditure of 15m has been from beet in the 2011 12 campaign.
The written off and charged as a loss on closure southern beet campaign, which commenced of businesses in the income statement.
in early June and nished in August, produced This charge was largely offset by the 80,000 tonnes of sugar.
The Guadalete realisation of deferred profit on the disposal, renery again increased its output, processing in November 2009, of the groups former 303,000 tonnes of cane sugar against last Polish sugar operations.
A further 70,000 Illovo also markets a number of co-products tonnes of co-rened cane sugar was which have become an increasingly produced at the three northern factories.
important contributor to its results.
These The advances made in recent years range from food-grade, industrial and by both Azucarera and British Sugar in agricultural products manufactured at the manufacturing productivity and agricultural Sezela plant and at its ethanol distilleries in development have made a major contribution South Africa, to the export of electricity to to their financial performance and the Swaziland national grid by the Ubombo underscore the importance of continued sugar mill.
A potable alcohol distillery at investment in efficiency improvement.
Kilombero in Tanzania is currently under However, further improvements are required construction and is due to be if these businesses are to become globally commissioned in 2013. competitive and we believe the ending of In China, further progress was made in sugar quotas in 2015, as proposed by the the north, both in factory efficiency and European Commission, is premature and is in beet plantings and yield, with sugar likely to jeopardise further investment in the production increasing from 210,000 tonnes European industry.
AB Sugar is engaged to 287,000 tonnes.
Factories concentrated with policymakers in the EU to explore on improving manufacturing performance alternative options for sugar reform.
The through higher energy efficiency and tariffs for sugar imports into the EU are extraction rates, and previous investment not affected by these proposals.
in beet handling drove record throughput Construction of Vivergos bioethanol plant at the Yian factory.
Heavy rains in January 2012 constrained output in south China with in Hull is now complete with production coming on stream by the end of this calendar volumes almost level with last year at 405,000 tonnes.
The plant uses feed wheat and has the capacity to produce up to 420 million litres sugar production was 1.0 million tonnes higher than last year which, combined of bioethanol and up to 500,000 tonnes of high-protein, high-bre animal feed.
with lower prices for sugar imports, led to weaker domestic selling prices and Illovo made good progress, recovering from consequently lower operating profit for the impact of low sucrose levels in the cane our Chinese operations.
Relocation of across the region and the severe drought the Zhangbei beet sugar factory is almost in South Africa last year.
Sugar production complete and will be operational in time increased to 1.8 million tonnes compared to for the new season campaign.
The increased volumes in South Africa enabled the Umzimkulu mill to be reopened in March 2012 following last seasons closure Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 19 AB SUGAR: WORKING HARD TO ENSURE CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT These programmes bring together experts from within the businesses Performance improvement is central to exchange and translate technical information into cost advantage to AB Sugars commitment to delivering ensuring the application of best practice and the extension of technical knowledge boundaries.
operational excellence through sustainable AB Sugar has invested in continuous improvement programmes designed intensication and advanced manufacturing.
to utilise more fully the latest tools and techniques.
For example, Illovo has Its performance improvement and people initiated a new programme Towards Illovo Best Practice which introduces standardised management processes that deliver improvement projects development programmes operate across efficiently and effectively with more predictable and consistent outcomes.
all of the business regions.
In British Sugar, a core team provides continuous improvement expertise and programme management skills, enabling the business to build capability and deliver improvements to both operational and transactional processes.
A recent success has been the implementation of a revised and streamlined Zambia hourly crush rate financial budgeting process, releasing significant resource back into thebusiness.
2012 13: A key area of focus for all of our sugar businesses is the operation of our 653 tonnes plants at full capacity.
Benchmarking identies opportunities and group-wide 2011 12: technical and logistical knowledge provides solutions.
Illovos Nakambala site 645 tonnes in Zambia has benefited from this cross-group expertise, with the operation 2010 11: signicantly improving its performance following its two-year expansion 641 tonnes project.
By identifying bottlenecks, the team re-engineered the plant and is achieving an average hourly crush rate for the 2012 13 season that is well above its design capacity.
During the year AB Sugar launched its Sugar Beet Centre of Excellence, which aims to increase crop yields by improving agricultural processes, harnessing developments in agronomics and crop genetics, and by working with growers to apply best practice.
The Beet Centre of Excellence brings together global specialists from the entire beet supply chain, including seed and input experts, research scientists, growers and process technologists.
It is supporting our beet sugar businesses in north China, Spain and the UK in the delivery of their yield growth plans.
This approach is being replicated in Africa and south China with the recent launch of a Sugar Cane Centre of Excellence.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 20 AGRICULTURE AB AGRI IS AN ESTABLISHED MAJOR FORCE IN UK AGRICULTURE AND IS INCREASINGLY OPERATING ON A GLOBAL SCALE.
IT SUPPLIES TECHNOLOGY-BASED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES TO FARMERS, FEED AND FOOD MANUFACTURERS, PROCESSORS AND RETAILERS.
It also buys grain from UK farmers and suffered margin erosion in Eastern Europe.
Revenue supplies them with crop inputs through its The weakening of the euro affected the joint venture, Frontier.
Operating across the competitiveness of exported piglet starter agricultural supply chain, AB Agri feed and pet premixes into the Eurozone.
1,265m manufactures high-performance compound The major building and engineering operations feeds, provides world-leading analytical for UK expansion are now complete and 12% services, nutritional advice and poultry plant commissioning is well under way.
It provides AB Vista continued to expand its an added-value service to food, drink and Adjusted operating profit geographic presence and share of the feed bioethanol companies internationally, by enzyme market, with a particularly good marketing their co-products as animal feed, performance in the Asia Pacic region.
40m which in turn helps to reduce the costs of The main growth driver was the Quantum production for its farming customer base.
It phytase range including the recently also supplies the livestock and pet industries Level launched product, Quantum Blue.
AB Vista with premixes, enzymes and other technical also recently nalised an arrangement that ingredients which are increasingly important will see it become a major global supplier growth drivers for the business.
Adjusted operating profit margin of betaine to the animal nutrition sector.
AB Agri delivered another good During the year, AB Sustain acquired a performance with revenues 12% ahead and 3.2% small UK-based business, specialising in the profit in line with last years strong result.
development, implementation and auditing The UK feed business benefited from of systems which promote continuous 2011, 3.5% higher volumes of sugar beet feed but saw improvement in agricultural supply chains some margin erosion in the pig and poultry across the world.
AB Sustain also won the feed markets reecting another difficult Return on average capital Sainsburys Supplier Making it Happen year for the UK livestock industry.
employed award in recognition of its outstanding Frontier continued to trade well.
Earnings customer support and service.
from grain trading were at more normal 16.5% Progress was made in China with increased levels which reected less movement in compound and sugar beet feed sales wheat prices during the year.
High crop volumes together with new products for 2011, 19.0% prices underpinned good farm profitability the feed ingredients market.
Agreement and Frontier benefited from continued high was reached recently with a major US demand for fertiliser, seed and crop multinational to build a new feed mill protection products.
in China to service its local poultry Premier Nutrition increased its UK market feed requirements.
share in broiler and ruminant premixes but Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 21 QUANTUM BLUE: A CROSS-DIVISIONAL COLLABORATION SUCCESS STORY In January 2012, a new phytase product Quantum Blue was launched to the global animal nutrition market.
This was the result of a highly effective partnership between AB Enzymes and AB Vista, in collaboration with Roal, our manufacturing joint venture in Finland.
First created in 2004 as the feed ingredients arm of AB Agri, AB Vista has since grown to be the third largest enzyme supplier to the global feed industry.
AB Vista works closely with sister company AB Enzymes, based in Darmstadt, Germany, and with Roal.
This collaboration created a winning combination of market-leading technologies and expertise in R&D, manufacturing and marketing for the Quantum Blue product launch.
In March 2008, the two ABF sister companies worked together on the successful acquisition of a start-up phytase business under the brand name, Quantum.
In animal nutrition, phytases are added to feed to release The Phytase revolution phosphorus and other nutrients that are bound to indigestible plant phytate.
Releasing these nutrients reduces feed cost and also reduces pollution risk from manure.
Over the last four years, sales of the original Quantum phytase product have increased substantially, resulting in significant market share gains.
Building on this success, superior variants of Quantum were screened for enhanced thermostability and phytate degradation and in August 2009 a new variant, now known as Quantum Blue, was selected.
The companies are justiably proud of their molecule to market time span of around half the industry standard of six to eight years, utilising innovative technologies and expertise to achieve superior performance.
Quantum As an enhanced E. coli phytase, Quantum Blue goes beyond the capabilities Blue of its predecessors to deliver greater phosphorus release, more consistently than any other commercially available phytase.
Quantum Blue is intrinsically thermostable and therefore does not need to be coated, enabling quick release of the active enzyme in the animals digestive system.
Quantum In January 2012, Quantum Blue was launched at the International Poultry phytase Exhibition in Atlanta, USA.
Regional launch events and seminars have taken place across the globe in Thailand, Korea, Brazil and Mexico supporting the local regulatory approvals of the product.
Nine months after the launch, Quantum Blue is already sold in 17 countries across North America, Latin Bacterial America, Asia and the Indian subcontinent, and has grown to represent a phytase significant proportion of total AB Vista phytase sales.
This is a great example of how close collaboration and effective teamwork can bring new product innovations to the market efficiently.
In early 2012, Fungal a global survey was conducted by AB Vista among customers and noncustomers and 54% of respondents ranked AB Vista as the most innovative phytase phytase supplier in the market.
The global phytase market is estimated to be worth over 250 million and is growing at 7 8% per annum.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 22 RETAIL It offers customers quality, up-to-thePRIMARK IS A MAJOR CLOTHING RETAILER minute fashion at value-for-money prices.
Further expansion saw the creation of 10,000 new jobs during the year with the WITH STORES IN THE UK, IRELAND, SPAIN, business employing more than 43,000 people by the year end.
PORTUGAL, GERMANY, THE NETHERLANDS, Revenue was 17% ahead of last year at constant exchange rates.
As a result of the BELGIUM AND AUSTRIA.
weakening of the euro in the second half of the year, the increase was 15% when translated at actual exchange rates.
This excellent result was driven by an increase in retail selling space and like-for-like sales growth of 3% for the full year.
UK trading was particularly strong during the summer and sales in continental Europe remained buoyant.
Trading in newly opened stores exceeded expectations and the opening of the new store in Berlin in July saw our most successful first days sales ever.
Sales of the autumn winter range in the new financial year are encouraging.
Revenue 3,503m 15% Adjusted operating profit 356m 15% Adjusted operating profit margin 10.2% 2011, 10.2% Return on average capital employed 19.2% 2011, 18.2% Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 23 The operating profit margin at 10.2% was Trading Initiative ETI since 2006, it is Our new store design aims to provide an level with that achieved last year.
In the now ranked at Leader level which is the inspirational, exciting, fashionable and fun first half margins were lower than last year highest status achievable.
The ETI classies shopping environment for all customers.
reecting the absorption of high cotton a Leader as tackling the root causes of Strategically placed mannequins combine costs and the increase in VAT in the UK, labour rights problems beyond individual with video screens to inspire customers to which we chose not to pass on to workplaces with collaborative initiatives choose outts that are readily available on customers.
As expected, margins in the aimed at the sectorial level and in raw adjacent xtures.
Prominent directional signage allows easy navigation through the second half increased reecting the fall material or component supply.
Operating margins are of this ranking demonstrates the hard work store and the confident expression of our Primark brand on building facades and at expected to improve further in the first half and commitment made by Primark to of the new financial year with the benefit ensuring that workers making our products various focal points encourages customers to feel engaged with the brand.
Customer of lower cotton prices but will be partly are paid fairly, treated well, and work in constrained by the three percentage decent conditions.
The impact of our inservice has been enhanced by providing a higher ratio of tting rooms and cash point increase in VAT rates in Spain from country teams of ethical trading specialists 1 September 2012.
Operating profit at has been significant in supporting sustainable registers to ensure a smoother experience improvements within supplier factories, when trying outts on and paying for them.
constant currency was 17% higher than last year reecting the strong revenue growth.
providing greater visibility across the The pace of store and retail selling space supply chain as well as improving the At actual exchange rates profit was expansion increased this year.
management of our audit programme.
financial year end we had opened 19 new We conducted 1,795 audits in the last Primark continued to make significant stores and added 0.9 million sq ft of selling calendar year and ethical trade training progress with its ethical trade programme space bringing the total to 242 stores and continues to be provided to every new during the year.
A member of the Ethical 8.2 million sq ft. Three new stores were Primark employee.
NEW STORE OPENINGS: Alicante Spain Badajoz Spain Barcelona Spain Cordoba Spain Majadahonda Spain Malaga Spain Pamplona Spain Parque-sur, Madrid Spain Valencia Spain Braga Parque Portugal Coimbra Portugal Essen Germany Hannover Germany Saarbrucken Germany Schloss Strasse, Berlin Germany Zaandam the Netherlands Chelmsford UK Edinburgh UK Livingston UK UK concessions: Selfridges, Birmingham Selfridges, Manchester Relocations: Metro Centre, Gateshead UK Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 24 RETAIL CONTINUED opened in the UK, 11 in Iberia and five Londons Oxford Street and our first store Newcastle and Mary Street in Dublin, in northern continental Europe.
Highlights in Austria, in Innsbruck, during September.
featuring the new store design.
of the year included a major expansion in The new Oxford Street store has 82,000 sq ft We have invested further to improve the Iberia, particularly Spain, the opening of a of selling space over four oors and showcases efficiency, and increase the capacity, of our agship store on Princes Street in Edinburgh Primarks latest design concept incorporating logistics network.
In August we opened a and four large stores in Germany.
The new enhanced visual merchandising, branding, new, purpose-built depot in Mnchengladbach store in Berlin achieved the distinction of xtures, lighting and state-of-the-art video in the west of Germany with 425,000 sq ft becoming Primarks highest grossing store screens showing the latest campaigns.
This increases our on an opening day.
further 12 stores will have opened before total warehouse capability to 2.7 million sq Christmas, including a second store in The momentum of our store opening ft, adding to the footprint of our existing Austria.
By the spring of next year we programme has continued into the new depots in Ireland, the UK and Spain and will also have completed the expansion financial year with our second store on enabling a more exible response to the of our city centre stores in Manchester, needs of our customers in northern Europe.
Store expansion by region Northern Republic of Continental UK Iberia Ireland Europe Total sq ft sq ft sq ft sq ft sq ft 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores September 2011 5,190 154 760 24 1,010 38 320 7 7,280 223 Change in year 235 3 340 11 345 5 920 19 September 2012 5,425 157 1,100 35 1,010 38 665 12 8,200 242 Sept 2012 5% 45% 108% 13% MNCHENGLADBACH DEPOT: THE HEART OF OUR NORTHERN EUROPEAN OPERATIONS A key part of this is to ensure the network Inbound freight now arrives at Rotterdam Operating a supply chain that is synchronised with the store estate and and travels by train or barge for most of delivers over two million items its service requirements.
its journey to the Mnchengladbach site.
The close proximity of the depot to our to stores every single day of the As our store numbers in northern continental stores means that next day delivery is Europe expanded, there came a point year requires an eye for detail now a reality we will get product to where the estate could justify its own stores some eight to nine days faster and a relentless focus on distribution depot.
Previously, deliveries to than at present, a lifetime in the world of Rotterdam, Berlin and all points in between efficiency and effectiveness.
It also means a saving of were made from our warehouse in Naas, 3.9 million road miles per annum.
Republic of Ireland efficient for stock holding but not for delivery economics.
This new distribution centre completes another phase of our supply chain Freight delivery to new centre Working with our distribution partner, we transformation, supporting geographical undertook a detailed study to determine the expansion and ending a substantial, and optimum location from which to serve our complex, period of restructuring.
Last stores, and then to design and construct year we completed an extension and the depot at the chosen location, Regiopark, new garment-on-hanger system for our Mnchengladbach in Germany.
This year has The result is a 425,000 sq ft distribution seen an extension of 140,000 sq ft to our centre that commenced operations in Thrapston, UK depot and the completion Reduction of August this year.
The building has an of an extension and new garment-on- 3.9m additional 175,000 sq ft of mezzanine oor hanger system at the new Naas road miles for a state-of-the-art mechanised garmentdistribution depot optimum facilities, on-hanger system.
Overall this gives us the in the right locations, driving an efficient capacity to hold 60,000 sets and 700,000 supply chain every day.
The latest systems technology is deployed with a warehouse management system that includes leading-edge voice-picking technology.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 25 Revenue GROCERY 3,726m GROCERY COMPRISES OUR CONSUMER- 1% FACING BUSINESSES THAT MANUFACTURE Adjusted operating profit AND MARKET A VARIETY OF GROCERY 187m BRANDS BOTH NATIONALLY AND -23% INTERNATIONALLY.
Adjusted operating profit margin 5.0% Twinings Ovaltine has the broadest of the calendar year.
New production lines geographic reach selling its premium enabled further improvements to be made teas and malted beverages in more than in tea packaging.
The UK grocery businesses growth in Thailand and other developing produce well-known household brands markets with particular success in Brazil, Return on average capital including Kingsmill, Silver Spoon, Jordans, where we have now also introduced a employed Ryvita, Pataks and Blue Dragon.
ACH is a ready to drink format, and Indochina.
speciality food business operating across UK consumers have continued to seek North America and Mexico.
Among its 12.2% value from product choice, promotions and market-leading products are Mazola corn price in response to sustained pressure on oil, Karo corn syrup and the leading corn household incomes.
The market remained 2011, 17.6% starch brand, Argo.
George Weston Foods competitive for Allied Bakeries with in Australia produces a range of meats, promotional activity reducing margins breads and baked goods including Tip Top, Restated see note 1 and the recent increase in wheat costs will the countrys leading food brand.
give rise to further margin pressure in the Grocery revenue increased by 1% but coming year.
However, good progress was adjusted operating profit declined by 23% made during the year in reducing the cost reecting primarily the cost of restructuring base with the closure of two small bakeries at George Weston Foods in Australia and and a re-engineering of business processes Allied Bakeries in the UK, together with the to reduce overheads.
Whilst delivering a difficult retail and competitor environment significant change agenda the business has inAustralia.
continued to focus on both understanding and meeting customer and consumer Twinings Ovaltine, our most profitable needs.
This was recognised by The Grocer grocery business, maintained the magazine which named Allied Bakeries as momentum of last year achieving sales its branded bakery supplier of the year for growth and share gains in its four largest the fourth year in succession.
Marketing investment was largest sub-brand, 50 50, continues to be a substantially increased throughout the key driver of Allied Bakeries performance business.
In the UK, we launched the having become the number one brand in very successful Gets you back to you the healthier white bread segment last year, television campaign which contributed and its range has been successfully extended to our market share increase.
In the US, into wraps, pitta pockets and mufns.
The growth was driven by the K-cup singlecapital expenditure programme to upgrade serve format which has expanded beyond and modernise the equipment in the bakeries foodservice into the grocery channel where was accelerated during the year to realise, we are now the leading tea brand in this more quickly, the benets of greater format.
Twinings had a particularly reliability, improved consistency and lower successful year in Australia, increasing its costs.
The upgraded bread plant and new market share with an effective marketing silos at Stockport came on stream in campaign including consumer trial.
September creating one of the most Following last years factory expansion in advanced bakeries in the UK.
China and completion of the new factory in Poland, the final stages of investment in the Jordans and Ryvita performed strongly in Andover factory, which supplies the UK the UK with both brands responding well to market, is due to complete before the end effective advertising.
Ryvita Thins won the Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 26 GROCERY CONTINUED healthy product of the year award and Jordans saw continued success in granola where it is the leading brand in the segment.
The business also had a good year internationally with particularly strong sales growth for both brands in Canada, driven by increased distribution following REDUCING OUR WATER USAGE AT JORDANS RYVITA the move from two distributors to one, and the building of a dedicated sales and marketing team in Toronto.
The transfer of which took some time to achieve its crackerbread manufacture from Stockport Jordans Ryvita wins first ever optimum temperature from start-up.
to Poole was completed during the year and Waitrose Way Environmental As a result every time the machine was the new plant is now fully functioning.
The started, approximately 500kg of dough Sustainability award for saving business was recognised during the year for and water mix was wasted as the its commitment to sustainability, winning the 60,000 litres of water a year.
temperature gradually reduced to the Waitrose Way award for its work on water required level.
conservation at the Poole factory.
The Waitrose Way awards are the first ever awards issued by UK supermarket In 2011 a series of measures was taken Silver Spoon had a good year but volumes chain, Waitrose to its suppliers for to reduce the amount of water used in and margins came under pressure towards environmental sustainability projects that the process.
In order to achieve this the the end of the year from increased mirror the values of their business.
They business had to re-think the entire competition in the consumer sugar market.
were judged by leading independent manufacturing process and identied that Growth in caster and icing sugar for home environmentalists and corporate social by using an improved our blend and baking was offset by a decline in granulated responsibility experts in the UK.
mixing the rye dough thoroughly at the and brown sugars as consumers sought outset it was possible to create the same cheaper alternatives.
The Allinson our Ryvita crispbread is made using a pockets of air in the dough that had brand continued to grow strongly, particularly traditional Scandinavian Iced Crispbread traditionally been achieved through icing.
as a result of increased distribution of its recipe where the dough is chilled before Nature Friendly plain and self-raising ours.
This allows pockets of air to In what is only the third major change to In January, in partnership with Cargill, we form in the mix and means that yeast is the manufacturing process of Ryvita launched the Truvia sweetener brand in the not required in the recipe.
crispbread since it was first launched in UK, the first stevia-based, zero calorie 1925, the combinators were removed Historically, Ryvita crispbread dough sweetener.
The launch was supported with and new mixers installed, entirely mix was chilled in vats using blocks of television and radio advertising as well as eliminating 60,000 litres of water waste ice.
This developed over time into a in-store promotional activity and has built a overnight.
It also meant we could stop continuous process whereby wet dough leading position in the sweetener category.
was fed through machines called AB World Foods operated in a competitive combinators that cooled it down.
These trading environment throughout the year machines used a chemical refrigerant, with an increased level of promotional activity which, although supporting volumes, 500kg 3rd The amount of water and This is only the third had an adverse effect on margins.
Blue dough previously wasted major change to the Dragon became the UKs largest oriental through temperature manufacturing process ambient brand with strong sales growth rises in process since it was first launched in 1925 following its successful relaunch last year and Pataks also achieved good growth albeit driven by promotional activity.
The UK and Polish factories both performed well with Poland in particular benefiting from record volumes.
Although the ethnic food industry remained weak, especially in the hard-pressed Chinese takeaway sector, Westmills revenues held up well.
The noodles business, spearheaded by our leading brand in the sector, Lucky Boat, continued to gain share with sales to industrial customers, as well as Chinese 60,000 1st restaurants, ahead of last year.
Investment The number of litres of Jordans Ryvita is the first in a third noodle line at the Trafford factory water saved per year company to be awarded during the year consolidated our position since the new production the Waitrose Way process began award as the largest and most efficient noodle Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 27 manufacturer in the UK.
On 5 July we resulted in lower volumes and operating year, and competitors increased volumes.
acquired the leading ethnic our brand in profit.
Stratas achieved further margin Following the closure of the plant in Altona, the UK, Elephant Atta, together with a improvement with better oil procurement the transfer of production and commissioning number of smaller related ethnic our and by reducing overheads.
of the new facilities at Castlemaine brands which are used to make chapatti and constrained volume throughput which In Australia, the difficult retail and other unleavened at breads.
This business affected service levels, revenues and competitor environment experienced will complement Westmills other leading operating costs.
The throughput issues by George Weston Foods led to lower have now been addressed and we are ethnic brands including Tolly Boy rice and revenues and an operating loss for the Rajah spices.
engaging with our key customers to recover year.
Retailer promotion of in-store bakery lost volumes and drive growth.
Costs are At ACH in the US, vegetable oil volumes products, combined with continuing support also reducing and a significant programme increased benefiting from a recent price for $1 bread and range rationalisation, of work is under way to simplify the reduction, while home baking and spices affected sales and margins in the bread structure of the group and improve volumes were level with last year.
Restructuring charges were remained high for most of the year but was made with improved reliability and made during the year for the cost of sales and margins recovered from last efficiencies delivered through supply chain reorganising sales distribution and years levels.
Continued increases in raw optimisation.
The successful launch during warehousing and a general reduction in material costs, with an inability to recover the year of The One, a nutritional loaf, administration overheads.
As a result of the them fully, impacted margins in the avours strengthened the business in the key difficult trading conditions and low volumes, business.
significant investment was made mainstream white bread segment of the the carrying value of the assets in the meat during the year in new product launches market.
The meat business performed business was no longer supported by our in baking and in the sauces marinades well below expectations, driven by forecasts of its discounted future cash category, capitalising on the strength of commissioning issues at the new ows and an exceptional impairment the ACH brands.
In Mexico, a weaker Castlemaine factory, retailer pressure on charge of A$150m 98m has been taken.
peso and continued competitive pressure prices, particularly in the first half of the ENCOURAGING THE DEMAND FOR HEALTHY OPTIONS A number of products under the Kingsmill Bread has always been part of a brand achieve exactly this balance.
staple diet and provides valuable Kingsmill 50 50 is a white bread made with 50% white our and 50% wholemeal nutrients such as calcium, iron and our to provide people with more bre bre to the diet.
But we are always and is now available in a range of formats.
The Little Big Loaf range which was looking to make it even better!
launched in 2009 has full-size slices, just In the UK, as part its commitment to fewer of them, so that people who dont the governments Public Health eat a lot of bread, such as those living in Responsibility Deal, Allied Bakeries has one or two-person households, dont already implemented significant salt have to buy more than they actually need.
reduction measures across all its bread and The team at Allied Bakeries also look for roll products.
However, the way people eat new ingredients to create products that bread is changing.
Consumers are looking can help people make interesting and for healthier recipes, different avour healthy choices.
For example, new varieties and they also want to minimise Burgen Sunower & Chia Seed bread waste.
Above all though, their bread must is the first branded loaf launched in the taste great too!
UK with chia seed a great source of Omega-3.
All in all, a great recipe for success!
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 28 INGREDIENTS THE INGREDIENTS SEGMENT COMPRISES AB MAURI AND ABF INGREDIENTS.
AB Mauri has a major global presence in yeast has been able to compete more Revenue bakers yeast, with significant market effectively against higher priced imports.
positions in the Americas, Europe and Asia, We achieved further growth in bakery and is a technology leader in, and supplier 1,092m ingredients benefiting from continued of, bakery ingredients.
It operates from investment in resources and technology.
ABF Ingredients This was particularly notable in the Level markets enzymes, yeast extracts, speciality creativity and exibility brought to bear by proteins and lipids worldwide with our Innovation Centre which has enabled manufacturing facilities in Europe, Adjusted operating profit the bakery ingredients business to tailor the US and China.
solutions to meet changing customer Revenues were level with last year but requirements at appropriate price points.
32m operating profit was sharply lower reecting The Innovation Centre is now supporting restructuring charges and continuing the yeast business by developing total -48% operational challenges faced by AB Mauri.
The European yeast market continued to In the past year, AB Mauri made substantial be extremely competitive and our margins progress in identifying the capabilities Adjusted operating profit margin remained constrained by an inability to needed to deliver a more differentiated recover fully raw material cost increases.
It is now In Asia, sales volumes in China were 2.9% applying this understanding to each of its disappointing and key raw material costs, businesses, ensuring that it is adapted to primarily molasses, remained at a high meet their distinctive market requirements.
Progress was made in improving productivity at the recently commissioned Capital investment by AB Mauri during the yeast factory in Harbin, making this one of year included the construction of new yeast Return on average capital our most efficient plants, and our factory plants in Mexico and Shandong province in employed in Vietnam was reopened in the second China together with the expansion of dry half of the year following completion of yeast capacity at Xinjiang in China.
Latin America plants in China have been commissioned once again maintained strong revenue and and the Mexican plant will be operational profit growth across most markets although during the first half of next year.
2011, 8.3% margins in Brazil came under pressure early ABF Ingredients delivered good growth in in the year from higher molasses prices sales and operating profit.
Growth in feed, Restated see note 1 and increased competitor activity.
As the bakery and speciality enzymes was driven Brazilian real has progressively weakened by new product launches and, in response during the year our locally produced dry Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Operating Review 29 to this sustained growth, the enzymes and customer service and an expanded Hamburg was upgraded during the year factory in Finland, which is now customer base.
Production at the existing enabling it to expand into new market approaching capacity following its facility in California is nearing capacity and sectors and, after a period of operational expansion in 2009, is to be expanded with increasing demand, a new facility is to challenge, the US business made a number further.
Management processes in the be built in Evansville, Indiana.
The results of of efficiency improvements and is back enzymes business were enhanced during the US dairy business improved driven by in growth.
the year with the installation of new high lactose and whey protein prices.
information systems, and improved sales Yeast extracts are now supplied to Europe forecasting accuracy has enabled better from the new, fully commissioned, factory inventory management.
in Harbin, China and new business is In the US, extruded grain products enjoyed being developed in the Chinese and Asian strong growth driven by an enhanced range markets.
The yeast extracts facility in People have made use of enzymes in Each year, more than 10% of the business making bread, beer, wine and cheese revenues are invested in research and for many centuries, often without realising development.
The proprietary technology that it was an enzyme that made all the includes a series of exceptional skills, difference to the product.
In the last few ranging from bioprospecting from nature decades there has been a dramatic change to formulation of the final product.
These in the way enzymes are identied and technologies are protected by more than optimised for use.
Thanks to biotechnology 450 patents worldwide and have been it has become possible to isolate the gene developed over many years, often in that codes an enzyme and to introduce it partnership with leading universities AB ENZYMES AT THE into a host organism allowing the enzyme and institutes.
to perform more predictably and be Our enzymes are successfully marketed to produced more cost-effectively.
Today HEART OF SUSTAINABLE many well-known, international companies.
enzymes have developed into a 2.5bn Often leaders in their respective elds, industry and we nd them being used these companies rely upon AB Enzymes in a wide range of applications, from the DEVELOPMENT as a versatile, trustworthy, innovation traditional areas of baking, beverages and partner and a reliable supplier of highcheeses to detergents, textiles and even quality products.
Among these customers the conversion of waste into biofuels.
Enzymes are biological molecules are several of AB Enzymes sister AB Enzymes is a well-established business, companies in ABF, such as AB Vista, that increase the rate of chemical ranked fourth in the global market for which sells enzymes within its portfolio reactions.
Their unique folding industrial enzymes, and recognised for of animal feed products, and AB Mauri, innovative discovery, effective development which uses the enzymes for application pattern enables specic and reliable delivery of high-quality enzymes.
chemistry on a molecular level, i. e. using tiny quantities, and by employing enzymes many processes can be improved so as 450 patents protect the to use less energy and water new technologies Innovative developed with minimal waste.
discovery AB Enzymes Effective Number 4 in the global development market for industrial enzymes Reliable 10% delivery of business revenues are invested in research and development Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012
