SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW Review of Operations PRODUCTION FROM THE TGT H4-WHP COMMENCED OVER ONE MONTH EARLIER THAN SCHEDULED AND NEARLY A YEAR Vietnam AHEAD OF Block 9-2 Field development THE ORIGINAL production APPROVED DEVELOPMENT Block 16-1 Appraisal eld development PLAN production ollowing First Oil from the Te Giac Trang South East Asia TGT eld which was achieved from the northern platform both on schedule and on Vietnam Fbudget on 22 August 2011, production from SOCOs Block 16-1 and Block 9-2 projects in Vietnam the southern TGT H4 Well Head Platform WHP are located offshore in the oil rich Cuu Long Basin, commenced on 6 July 2012, over one month earlier which is a shallow water, near shore area dened by than scheduled and nearly a year ahead of the original several high prole producing oil elds, the largest of approved development plan.
which, Bach Ho, is located between the two Blocks and has produced more than one billion barrels of oil Total production net to the Groups working interest to date.
The projects are operated through non-profit during 2012 averaged 14,757 barrels of oil equivalent Joint Operating Companies wherein each participating per day BOEPD, over 170% higher than the 5,437 party owns shares equivalent to its respective interests BOEPD achieved in 2011.
Net entitlement production in the Petroleum Contracts governing the projects.
averaged 15,496 BOEPD including recovery of costs Antony Maris, carried on behalf of PetroVietnam.
SOCOs interests are held through its wholly-owned Chief Operating officer subsidiaries, SOCO Vietnam Ltd and OPECO Vietnam An early independent reservoir engineers assessment Limited.
SOCO Vietnam Ltd holds a 25% working of an ongoing evaluation of the TGT eld see page 17 interest in Block 9-2, which is operated by the Hoan Vu has ascribed a Stock Tank Oil Initially In Place STOIIP JOC HVJOC and holds a 28.5% working interest in range up to 958 million barrels MMBBLs, which Block 16-1, which is operated by the Hoang Long JOC confirms the Companys original assessment.
OPECO Vietnam Limited holds a 2% interest in Block 16-1.
SOCOs partners on both Blocks are Elsewhere, the Company has pursued new projects PetroVietnam, the national oil company of Vietnam, in regions where SOCO already has a presence and and PTTEP, the national oil company of Thailand.
continues to evaluate other projects in new areas of interest.
SOCOs primary focus has been on oil Production projects in hydrocarbon prone regions that can be Te Giac Trang, Block 16-1 commercialised within reasonable time frames to The TGT eld is situated in the north-eastern part of enhance its asset portfolio.
Progress has been Block 16-1, offshore Vietnam and is operated by the made with the first new venture, the Nanga II A HLJOC.
The Block was awarded in December 1999 area exploration licence in the Republic of Congo and the first commercial discovery, TGT, was made in Brazzaville, which was added to our portfolio this year.
TGT is considered to be a simple structure 14 14 S St tr rate ategic gic Re Revi vie ew w Busines Business s Revie Review w Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 The 2013 campaign of infill Non-Financial Key Performance Indicators drilling and the H5 step-out appraisal 2012 2011 2010 well is expected to Production BOEPD 14,757 5,437 4,648 commence in the Proven and probable reserves mmboe 128.5 130.3 132.6 Lost time injury frequency nil nil nil second quarter of See the Five Year Summary on pages 94 to 95 for denitions this year.
extending over 13 kilometres and at least five fault reservoir section.
The rig was released ahead of the will allow the operator to more accurately predict blocks.
The producing reservoir comprises a complex monsoon season and drilling will recommence on the sweep through the individual reservoir sands and series of over 50 Clastic reservoir intervals of Miocene TGT eld in the second quarter of 2013 for the 2013 design reservoir management plans that will target and Oligocene age.
Each reservoir interval requires drilling programme, which will include completing the high recovery efficiencies.
individual reservoir management to ensure optimised TGT-17P well.
Production from the TGT eld started With the introduction of production from the five wells in August 2011 thus is early in eld life and without Overall, the results from the eight wells completed in at the southern platform, TGT has achieved stable ow a directly comparable eld analogue.
2012 were in line with expectations, with some wells rates ranging from 52,000 to 55,000 barrels of oil per signicantly better than expected.
However, TGT-8X day BOPD, with daily rate uctuations reecting well Activity continued apace during the first half of 2012 and TGT-15P did not have results in line with intervention activities.
A one-day high rate ow test in preparation for the start of production from the expectations.
TGT-8X drilled a previously unrecognised of the oating, production, storage and ofoading southern H4-WHP TGT platform.
Drilling of five narrow fault block which was structurally lower than vessel FPSO was carried out at 60,789 BOPD with development wells from H4-WHP was completed prior expected, limiting the overall pay in the well.
no issues seen in either the reservoir performance or to releasing the rig in April 2012.
All the development the FPSO operability.
The data gathered during this wells were suspended and were subsequently The TGT-15P had good reservoir properties in the performance test is being analysed to enable us to perforated to become producing wells.
The accelerated primary targeted upper portion of the Miocene identify and alleviate bottlenecks in the systems to construction activities on the H4 topsides allowed for reservoir sands, in line with expectation.
However, assess the FPSO oil production handling potential.
an early load out from the fabrication yard.
Production it appears that the lower portion of the Miocene from H4-WHP commenced on 6 July 2012, over one reservoir, and the Oligocene reservoir sands, The TGT eld is currently producing from two 16-slot month earlier than scheduled and nearly a year ahead were penetrated in a relatively down-dip position.
platforms some of the slots are designed to handle of the original approved development plan.
The overall result was to reduce the pay count in two wells with 16 producing wells.
The eld continues this well.
This localised effect has been incorporated to perform in line with expectations, with eld At the northern H1-WHP platform, the PetroVietnam into the modelling for the eld and the future reservoir production ranging from 52,000 to 55,000 BOPD.
Drilling Rig, PVD-II, came on location in mid-year to management planning.
Sales of TGT crude currently realise a premium of complete the four-well, ineld development drilling $5 to $7 per barrel to Brent benchmark crude price.
programme which included two inll development Based on the evaluation of the results of the reservoir wells, an appraisal well and one step-out development pressures from the 2012 drilling programme, depletion Further drilling and appraisal is planned as part of well.
The TGT-15P and TGT-16P inll wells on the H1.1 has been identied in the upper part of the Miocene the continuing eld development.
The 2013 campaign fault block and the TGT-8X appraisal well on the H2N reservoir sands.
This indicates lateral communication of inll drilling and the H5 step-out appraisal well is fault block were batch drilled into the reservoir section.
in a north-south direction, complementing the lateral expected to commence in the second quarter of These wells are now producing.
The TGT-17P communication identied from well testing, in the this year.
development well was suspended following a east-west direction.
Although still early in the eld life, twist-off in the bottom-hole assembly above the this lateral communication is a positive indication that 15 15 16 16 S St tr rate ategic gic Re Revi vie ew w Busines Business s Revie Review w Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW Review of Operations continued Independent Assessment of Range of Reserves Ca Ngu Vang CNV, Block 9-2 In the second half of 2012, the Company retained The CNV eld is located in the western part of Block RPS Energy Consultants Limited RPS, a professional 9-2, offshore Vietnam and is operated by the HVJOC.
consultancy specialising in petroleum reservoir The eld has been on stream since 2008 and has evaluation and economic analysis, to provide an been producing at stable rates with CNV production independent assessment of the elds STOIIP and net to the Companys working interest averaging potential recovery factors.
On 13 February 2013, the approximately 2,139 BOEPD in 2012 2011 - 2,283 Company announced that, based on the information BOEPD.
In contrast to TGT, the CNV eld is a fractured available to date, RPS had estimated a STOIIP range granitic Basement eld which produces highly volatile of from 466 to 958 MMBBLs.
Additional undiscovered oil from fractured Basement reservoir with a high gas STOIIP of 53 to 152 MMBBLs is attributed, in to oil ratio and exploitation is dependent on the fracture particular in the undrilled southern-most fault block, interconnectivity to efficiently deplete the reservoir.
H5, which will be drilled as a step-out appraisal well Accordingly, traditional reservoir properties and STOIIP in mid-2013.
This independent view confirms the calculations are not straightforward and a further well Companys overall assessment of the TGT eld.
will be required to allow assessment of the revised full reserve potential of this eld.
From the information available to date and the limited extent of development in each fault block, in particular Hydrocarbons produced from CNV are transported the number of producing wells and the provision of via subsea pipeline to the Bach Ho central processing injection support, RPS have taken the view that platform BHCPP where the wet gas is separated recovery factors range from 28% to 35%.
from crude oil and transported via pipeline to an onshore gas facility for further distribution.
The crude In principle, RPS consider the relatively thin but oil is stored on a FPSO prior to sale.
At the BHCPP, continuous reservoir sands to be of good quality both dedicated test separation and metering facilities in terms of permeability and porosity, to have less risk have been installed and commissioned.
A long term of water under-ride and therefore good vertical sweep production test to validate the newly installed system and displacement efficiency.
However, RPS has has been completed and analysis is near complete, broadly applied, across the full eld, concerns over which together will allow more accurate measurement management of individual reservoirs if required to of liquid and gas production entering the BHCPP commingle from several zones, and also over small and ensure the more accurate allocation of offsets from the free water levels that imply some produced hydrocarbons from the CNV eld producing zones may be in the transition zone with within the Bach Ho system.
These can only be dispelled with longer term production.
Also, the evaluation was limited to the Although the draft 2013 Work Programme and Budget plans contained in the approved Full Development Plan includes a CNV-7P well, at this point HVJOCs final FDP, which was originally submitted in 2010 and 2013 Work Programme and Budget remains to be assumes both a lower STOIIP than currently calculated formally approved while updates to the CNV Full Field and fewer wells than are planned to be drilled over the Development Plan proceed through the formal next three to five years.
The JOC is in the process of Government approval process.
Thus, once clarity on updating the FDP for the results of the wells and this issue has been reached, the independent reserves performance to date.
review of CNV can be completed.
Gordon Graham, Group Business The independent assessment will continue, factoring Development Development Mana Manage ger r in new data from the additional wells in 2013 and from the gas sales agreement that is close to nalisation.
Thus, adjustments to the Companys published reserves, if any, will be made during 2013.
SOCO believes that additional drilling and longer term production will continue to fide-risk the eld and impact positively on both the total number of reserves and recovery factors.
Recovery factors are anticipated to be 45-50%, as has already been seen in similar producing horizons in other producing elds in the same basin.
Vincent Duignan, Group Exploration Manager, General Manager SOCO South East Asia 17 17 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW Review of Operations continued Africa Decree which was issued on 11 October 2012.
The Nanga II A Block covers 687 square kilometres Republic of Congo Brazzaville and is located onshore Congo Brazzaville, adjacent The Groups interests in Congo Brazzaville are held to the coast and near the MBoundi producing eld.
through its 85% owned subsidiary, SOCO Exploration & Production Congo SA SOCO EPC.
Since announcing its plans to conduct an aeromagnetic survey followed by a 3D seismic survey Marine XI on the area, the Group has taken receipt of data The Marine XI Block is located offshore in the shallow acquired by prior operators.
Evaluation of the waters of the Lower Congo Basin, offshore Congo aeromagnetic data is underway along with Brazzaville.
SOCO EPC holds a 40.39% interest in reprocessing of the seismic data, both of which Marine XI and is the designated operator of the Block.
will contribute towards the potential acquisition of a new seismic programme.
From an analysis of the results of previously acquired Serge Lescaut, data on the Block, incorporating the results of the The exploration licence is valid for one year by which General Manager, Africa Region Lideka Marine 1 well drilled by the previous Block time the Company will determine whether to enter into concession holder, the Marine XI partners have agreed a production sharing contract.
to drill the Lideka Marine East 1 well.
This well will be a test of stacked plays and will test both the structural Democratic Republic of Congo closure updip from an oil leg encountered in the Sendji Kinshasa DRC Formation in the Lideka Marine 1 well that was drilled SOCO holds its interests in the DRC through its 85% two kilometres to the west and also the large untested owned subsidiary SOCO Exploration and Production structural closure in the overlying Tchala Formation.
Originally scheduled to be drilled in the latter part Block V of 2012, the rig sharing slot ceased to be available.
Block V is a 7,500 square kilometre area located Preparation is underway to proceed with a replacement onshore in the geological southern Albertine Graben rig sharing slot available in the second half of this year.
of eastern DRC, in the North Kivu region adjacent to the border with Uganda.
Block V encompasses an Marine XIV area of the Virunga National Park, a World Heritage The Block Marine XIV is located offshore in the shallow Site, and includes part of Lake Edward.
waters of the Lower Congo Basin.
The Marine XIV partners determined that they would not enter into During 2012, preparations were ongoing for an aerial a second exploration phase and accordingly have survey to be conducted over Lake Edward and the relinquished the Block back to the Government of adjacent lowland area.
The aerial survey, which is Congo Brazzaville.
SOCO EPC held a 29.4% interest the only exploration activity planned at this time, in the Block up until the time of relinquishment.
was approved by the DRC Government within the context of its Strategic Environment Evaluation of Nanga II A the Albertine Rift area.
The aerial survey will involve The Group has been awarded an exploration licence a helicopter ying over Lake Edward and the adjacent over the Nanga II A Block under a Prospection lowland savannah to gather magnetic and gravity information.
The helicopter will not touch down in the Virunga National Park, and the highland area that forms the Mountain Gorilla habitat is not within the helicopter ight path.
There is no reason for any ora or fauna to be impacted as a direct result of this phase of the Companys activities.
Democratic Republic of Congo In parallel with the aerial survey, SOCO will carry out Kinshasa several environmental baseline studies for example: an inventory of hippopotami and sh and mollusc Block V Congo Brazzaville studies on Lake Edward.
These studies have been Block evaluation determined through close collaboration with the Marine XI Block Congolese Wildlife Authority also known as Institut Exploration appraisal Nganzi Block Exploration Congolais pour la Conservation fide la Nature or ICCN and the Congo Environmental Studies Group also Nanga II A known as Groupe dEtudes Environnementales du Block evaluation Congo or GEEC.
During this preliminary phase of exploration, SOCO has been granted access on Angola a limited and managed basis to the Virunga National Park under an agreement with ICCN signed in Cabinda North Block Block evaluation exploration May 2011.
18 18 S St tr rategic ategic Re Revi vie ew w Busines Business s Revie Review w Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 19 19 20 20 S St tr rate ategic gic Re Revi vie ew w Busines Business s Revie Review w Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Review of Operations continued Throughout the year, we have actively engaged with Angola stakeholders who have an interest in our operations SOCO holds its interests in the Angolan enclave of in Virunga in order to better understand their concerns, Cabinda through its 80% owned subsidiary, SOCO correct inaccuracies and reassure local communities.
Cabinda Limited, which holds a 17% participating During 2012, we continued a programme of interest in the Production Sharing Agreement for the engagement with local communities around Lake Cabinda Onshore North Block.
Edward and found the response to be very positive.
Cabinda North Due to the deterioration in the security situation in Interpretation of the data acquired from the 2D seismic the North Kivu region, the aerial survey has not yet acquisition programme was completed during the year.
SOCOs logistics base and helicopter Preparation has now commenced for the drilling of the landing site were relocated from Ishasha in the DRC 20-6 and 20-7 exploration wells in Dinge area.
Drilling has pursued to Kihihi in Uganda in September 2012 and a is expected to start mid-2013.
temporary withdrawal of personnel occurred when Goma fell under rebel occupation.
As announced in September 2012, the Group has new projects in entered into a conditional agreement to sell its The security situation is being assessed on a continual ownership of SOCO Cabinda Limited.
The option expiry regions where basis and whilst SOCO remains committed to carrying has been extended and the final terms for closing are out its contractual commitment to carry out the aerial under negotiation.
SOCO already survey, we will only proceed when the assessment is that it is safe to do so.
has a presence In July 2012, SOCO E&P DRC increased its interest in the Block V licence to 85% by acquiring the 46.75% and continues to interest held by Ophir Energy Plc.
The remaining 15% interest is held by Cohydro, the national oil company evaluate other of the DRC.
projects in new Nganzi The Nganzi Block is an 800 square kilometre area situated onshore in the geological North Congo Basin areas of interest.
in the Bas Congo region of western DRC.
SOCO E&P DRC holds a 65% participating interest in the Nganzi Block and is the designated operator.
Reprocessing of the data acquired from the 2D seismic acquisition programme is ongoing using Prestack Depth Migration technology.
Preliminary results have been returned with completion expected during the first quarter of 2013.
This technology produces higher quality data by using segmented velocity information to enhance seismic images of sub-surface features, which should result in a clearer subsurface image allowing a more accurate interpretation and well targeting.
These data, along with results from the first drilling campaign will be the basis for making a drill or drop decision later this year.
