Operational Review Over the past three years our operating environment has seen significant change, which has had an impact both on the production levels at our operating mines as well as on our overall cost of production.
As a result, we have commenced a full Operational Review of the business and have identified a number of areas where we can improve both the cost profile as well as the deliverability of production.
Together with a reduction in the overall level of capital applied to the business, we believe that the current base of production can deliver attractive returns, which will be enhanced by our portfolio of organic growth projects which will start delivering incremental production from next year.
We will periodically report on the progress of the Operational Review throughout the year, as a part of our results releases.
The specific initiatives which will form the core of the Operational Review are: 1.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Initial results available in 6 months Initial results available in 6 months Aside from labour, our key costs drivers over the past few years have been Our production and cost profile have changed significantly and we will power, maintenance and consumable usage.
Whilst the increase in diesel now ensure that we right-size the business in order to fit our anticipated usage across the Group has been necessary to ensure production outcome, production levels and new operating paradigm.
With this in mind, a zero it has led to increased cost, specifically at Buzwagi.
We continue to based review is being undertaken of the entire organisation, in order to investigate opportunities to reduce the impact of our reliance on the ensure that we have the appropriate staffing levels, mix of employees and electricity grid, including short-term opportunities such as the installation contractors and the optimal combination of international and national of capacitors to reduce dips and voltage swings and longer-term alternative employees in order to meet our objectives without impacting production.
Optimisation of management operating systems and Further to this we will also simplify the corporate structure in order to supply chain practices are expected to provide further reductions in our improve the responsiveness of the organisation.
maintenance and consumable cost levels.
CAPITAL DISCIPLINE Initial results available in 3 months Over US$50 million reduction achieved in 2013 As a part of the review of our organisational structure we are reviewing We have maintained a disciplined approach to capital expenditure over opportunities to reduce our corporate overheads as we align the corporate thepast three years, but have still invested over US$750 million into the support and service model to match the business model to take forward business in order to optimise our asset base.
Aside from labour efficiencies, we see key opportunities for uswith well-invested, modern mines, such that we should be able to improved efficiencies within our Community, Health, Environment, substantially lower our capital budget going forward.
Our 2013 capital Safetyand Security function model and in a reduction in travel and expenditure guidance indicates an initial reduction of over US$50 million accommodation expenses.
We are reassessing all of our future capital expenditure to identify further opportunities to cut capital expenditure further into 2014 and beyond.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information r At Buzwagi, now that we have stabilised mining and processing rates 5.
MINE PLANNING DELIVERABILITY we are continuing to review options to improve operating efficiencies Initial results available in 6 months and thereby the profitability of this operation.
Our key focus in this On a mine site level, we are in the early stages of the review process.
As regard is to review ways in which we can reduce Buzwagis reliance on part of this process we are reviewing and optimising the life of mine plans diesel power, which results in high operating costs, and the reduction at each of the assets to prioritise driving returns and cash flow and are ofrequired levels of sustaining capital.
There are clear opportunities seeking to improve both productivity and efficiency at each of the assets toimprove sustaining capital investment levels, given that we are now through improved organisational structure and training.
through the bulk of the catch up capital investment required in order Key focus areas for further asset optimisation are: tostabilise production levels over the past three years.
r At our flagship asset Bulyanhulu, we are conducting a number of r At Tulawaka, as a result of our renewed focus on generating returns studies to optimise the ore extraction schedule, plan for the right rather than ounces, we have decided not to further extend the life of infrastructure to support the ore extraction and transport and, themine beyond 2013.
Engagement with our employees will be importantly, make sure we have a clear understanding of the most undertaken as we embark on this process and we willfocus efforts on efficient mining method to be deployed for the life of mine.
Whilst we the redeployment of the mines skilled workforce toour other assets have some temporary issues to resolve, the mine represents our best andthe progression of closure planning.
Options fordivestment will leverage to generate high return ounces, given the scale and quality also be considered.
r At North Mara, as a part of the review we are assessing all options for future development of the mine, including the potential for underground development.
We have overcome significant legacy issues and our social licence to operate has been regained, but as part of this exercise we will assess a range of potential mine plans based around the ability to access land in order to satisfy the life of mine requirements for the existing three open pits.
In conjunction with the mine development review, we will continue to work with regional and governmental departments in order to build on the actions we have implemented over the course of 2011 and 2012 to strengthen further our social licence to operate.
