Our Performance Foundry OPERATING REVIEW Image: Foundry filter VESUVIUS IN THE FOUNDRY INDUSTRY significantly to improving both product quality The Foundry division has two principal product lines: and manufacturing efficiency whilst reducing the Foundry Technologies and Fused Silica.
environmental impact of the casting process.
Customers of the Foundry division include the Image: Foundry sleeve Foseco, the Foundry Technologies business of worlds major automotive OEMs, truck producers and Vesuvius generating 32% of total Group revenue, manufacturers of construction, railroad and mining is focused on the global foundry industry which equipment.
The foundry market is highly fragmented produces castings used in a wide variety of and Vesuvius 15 largest foundry customers represented engineered products.
Some 40% of castings and a 12% of the divisions revenue in 2012. similar percentage of the revenue for the Foundry Technologies product line is produced for the Potential revenue per customer and per tonne of vehicle sector, comprising approximately 25% for casting produced is strongly influenced by the technical cars and light trucks automotive and 15% for sophistication of the casting and the process used in its heavy trucks.
Other end-markets for foundry castings production.
These factors tend to correlate with the level include construction, agriculture, mining machinery, of industrial development of the market and therefore power generation equipment, railroad and general Vesuvius sees significant growth opportunities as engineering.
Foseco is a world leader in the supply industrial development occurs in certain parts of Eastern of consumable products and services to the foundry Europe and Asia.
These products typically represent less than 5% of a foundrys production cost, but contribute www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 23 Foundry OPERATING REVIEW THE VESUVIUS PRODUCT OFFERING mould to remove impurities and reduce turbulence during pouring, thereby reducing scrap and improving FOUNDRY TECHNOLOGIES the mechanical properties of the finished casting.
Its Fosecos products are largely single-use by nature, feeding systems are also important in the reduction as they are either consumed or transformed during of material waste and improvement of casting quality: contact with the molten metal during casting.
In its exothermic feeding aids may be employed in the a typical foundry process, these products may be mould to provide secondary heat sources that can used in the melting shop, core shop, moulding line control cooling, minimising the adverse effects of and pouring stages.
Using the chemical binders and shrinkage during solidification, helping to optimise the refractory paints of Foseco, the customer foundries yield and the quality of the finished casting.
prepare the sand moulds and cores, the quality of which determines the precision and surface finish of Revenue for the Foundry Technologies product line the final casting.
As liquid metal is transferred from the is broadly split by end-market as follows: general melting furnace to the casting line, it may be in contact engineering 28%, light vehicles 25%, construction, with the molten metal transfer products of Vesuvius, agriculture and mining 18%, medium and heavy vehicles such as insulating ladle linings, and be modified 15%, railroad 4%, pipes and fittings 2% and other 8%.
and conditioned by metal treatment equipment and additives.
Fosecos ceramic filters are used within the Simplified Ferrous Foundry Process Melting and Metal Mould Preparation Treatment Fettling and Cleaning Pouring Ladle Mould and Core Solidification Assembly Core Production Finished Casting FUSED SILICA Vesuvius also supplies a wide range of fused silica Vesuvius is one of the worlds leading manufacturers refractories for the manufacture of flat glass and of fused silica refractory products.
Its Zyarock fused the shaping of safety glass for the automotive and silica product range is used in a wide variety of architectural industries.
highly - demanding industrial applications, such as glass melting and transformation and steel and aluminium casting.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 24 Our Performance INDUSTRY OVERVIEW IN 2012 The Chinese foundry industry suffered a contraction FOUNDRY The foundry market has historically grown broadly in starting mid-2011 across all segments, as REVENUE line with GDP.
government attempts to restrain an overheated m 608 economy took effect.
Increases in both fuel and In 2012, following a relatively strong first quarter, interest rates further reduced car and truck sales.
530 526 a general slowdown in the foundry market started Some recovery was evident during 2012 as 515 to become evident towards the end of the second automotive production picked - up and, following quarter and there were indications of a further the change in political leadership at the end of 2012, general slowdown through the third quarter.
More the indications are for a recovery in industrial activity 378 specifically, after a strong first half the NAFTA during 2013. railroad foundry industry began to slow down.
The Brazilian foundry industry had a weak first-half FOUNDRY DIVISION PERFORMANCE IN 2012 the truck industry upgraded from Euro III to Euro The division comprises principally the Foundry V environmental specification engines.
However, it Technologies product line, together with the much 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 took time for excess inventory of Euro III engines smaller Fused Silica product line.
In 2012, the FOUNDRY to be sold and, at the same time, the higher divisions revenue of 530 million was split 488 TRADING PROFIT specification diesel fuel for Euro V engines was not million for Foundry Technologies and 42 million for m widely available, with the result that sales of Euro V Fused Silica.
However, by the second half 78.5 76.3 inventory was being reduced and fuel availability FOUNDRY TECHNOLOGIES improved, resulting in a gradual recovery of the truck Revenue of 488 million represented a 7% reduction 67.4 foundry sector.
compared with 2011 down 3% at constant exchange rates.
Overall the year was one in which 49.2 In Europe, after a firm first quarter, truck and wind the end-markets served by the divisions customers power activity reduced with an adverse impact on the deteriorated with the result that foundry industry foundries reliant on those end-markets.
The situation profit ratios and cash flows suffered.
Selling prices did not improve throughout the remainder of the throughout the supply chain came under intense 11.7 year, but some improvements are expected in the pressure, but the strength of Fosecos differentiated second half of 2013. offering and customer relationships protected the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 business from its worst effects.
However, some The Indian foundry industry, largely reliant on margin dilution did occur due to the difficulties in domestic demand and automotive component transferring the input cost increases of 2011 into exports to Europe, stagnated as power availability in selling price increases.
the southern states reduced industrial activity and the government dramatically scaled back infrastructure In a number of markets, China, India and Southern projects, historically a strong driver of construction Europe in particular, weakened customer liquidity activity.
However, once again, the strength of Fosecos market position and its The Japanese automotive market, having suffered disciplined receivables management systems meant badly in 2011 from the effects of the tsunami that the effect was modest.
in March of that year, followed by supply chain disruption in the fourth quarter from severe flooding in Thailand, which is the principal source of wiring harnesses for Japanese automotive OEMs, recovered with a total production of 8.5 million cars up from 7.2 million in 2011.
However, the construction equipment segment suffered a severe downturn during the second half of 2012, as political tension between Japan and China, as well as a reduction in China infrastructure spend, reduced machinery and component exports to China.
com Stock Code: VSVS 25 Foundry OPERATING REVIEW Image: Foundry crucible On a more positive note, the year witnessed many The Foundry division is led by the Foundry important steps forward in the implementation of the Executive Committee FEC and during the Foundry strategy: year a number of changes took place.
The chief executive of the China business took on the The project to expand manufacturing operations role of global Foundry Finance Director, bringing in China continued with the purchase of a valuable knowledge of emerging markets to greenfield site in the Changshu chemical park the FEC.
A new FEC position of Vice President 55 miles north-west of Shanghai expected to be Greater China was created to ensure that this completed by the second quarter of 2013.
On this most important growth opportunity is represented site a new feeding systems and coatings plant will in the FEC the position was filled by the Area be constructed for commissioning in 2014.
The Director of Central Europe Middle-East, which in total investment in these new facilities is around turn brought to the Chinese business someone 13 million, spread over the next two and a half with strong connections to the European years.
foundry industry the origin of a considerable proportion of foreign direct investment into the Molten metal filter manufacturing was established Chinese foundry industry.
The Vice President in the existing site in Suzhou, China to serve both Europe was promoted into a position in the Steel the domestic market and South East Asia.
division and was replaced by a senior executive The Board approved the establishment of a transferring from the Fused Silica product line dedicated central research and development with considerable experience of technology-based facility in Enschede, the Netherlands, close to industrial businesses.
These changes highlight the Groups existing manufacturing facilities an important strength of Vesuvius a cadre of in the Netherlands and Germany.
The site will geographically mobile senior executives whose be established as a dedicated R & D facility for skills are transferable across the Group, thereby foundry consumables and will include molten facilitating the transfer of best practices and the metal test facilities.
The central marketing & technology team was significantly strengthened during the year with the objectives of increasing the level of research and development activity, of ensuring the rapid commercialisation of new products and of providing greater support to emerging markets.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 26 Our Performance Image: SERT UCERAM Pouring System for automated iron foundries FUSED SILICA In July, the Solar Crucible production facility in FOUNDRY The Fused Silica product line represents less than Moravia in the Czech Republic was closed.
This RETURN ON SALES 3% of Vesuvius continuing revenue.
Revenue of restructuring involved a headcount reduction of % 14.9 42 million represented a 46% decrease compared approximately 100 and resulted in total costs of 12 with 2011. million.
In October, in view of the continued weakness 13.1 in the end-market, it was also decided to close one of 12.6 For glass tempering rollers and other speciality the two Chinese Solar Crucible production facilities, 9.3 products used in the manufacture of glass, revenue which resulted in a total restructuring charge of decreased 8% compared to the first half of 2011.
Further action was taken in December 2012, with the decision to close the Solar Crucible The reduction in demand for Solar Crucibles led to manufacturing facility in Poland, resulting in a the trading losses in the Fused Silica product line restructuring charge of 9 million.
3.1 in the second half of 2011 continuing into 2012.
Since mid-2011 customers have, as previously Subsequent to the year-end, the Board decided to 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 reported, significantly cut production in response to close its remaining Solar Crucible manufacturing excess global inventories of finished solar panels.
The impairment of the Groups remaining FOUNDRY In particular, the product lines largest customer in Solar Crucible assets which this decision brought REVENUE BY Europe announced in April 2012 the permanent about was reported in 2012 as an additional LOCATION OF CUSTOMER closure of its Norwegian production facilities.
exceptional restructuring charge of 5 million.
Although steps were taken during the period to adapt to these market conditions by removing temporary workers, adopting some short-time working arrangements in Europe and by some permanent workforce reductions in the Chinese operations, the Solar Crucible product line incurred trading losses of 6 million in the first half of 2012 compared to a trading profit of 6 million in the first half of 2011. n EUROPE 39% n ASIA-PACIFIC 35% n NAFTA 14% n ROW 12% www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 27 Image: Levi Wu Suzhou China CREATIVITY COOPERATION Our commitment to technology and quality is Encouraging internal and external cooperation the basis for our competitive advantage: our is an effective tool which enables us to create creativity is what allows us to develop innovative unique solutions with our partners.
Each solutions that generate value through performance Vesuvius employee is committed to the success enhancements and continuous improvements.
of its community of colleagues and customers.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 28
