Our Performance Steel OPERATING REVIEW Image: Robotic Casting Technology RCT VESUVIUS IN THE STEEL INDUSTRY Vesuvius also supplies the steel industry and other Vesuvius assists steel makers to enhance the quality process industries with advanced refractory materials of their products, increase their competitiveness used for lining vessels such as blast furnaces, ladles and reduce their environmental footprint.
We and tundishes to enable them to withstand high achieve this by working closely with our customers temperatures and or corrosive attack.
These refractory to develop customised refractory systems, services lining materials may be supplied in the form of Image: SERT Stopper and technologies that enable them to improve their powder mixes, which are spray-applied onto the Rigging & Stopper performance.
vessels to be lined monolithics or in pre-cast shapes and bricks.
Vesuvius supplies the global steel industry with consumable ceramic flow control and advanced As both flow control and advanced refractory refractory materials.
products are consumables, steel production volumes and, in particular, production of higher quality steels Flow control products are used to contain and control using the enclosed continuous casting process, is the the flow of molten steel in the enclosed continuous critical driver of demand for Vesuvius steel-related casting and ingot casting processes.
Further, steel producers are continually casting process enables steel manufactured in a blast striving to enhance the enclosed continuous casting furnace or electric arc furnace to be cast directly process in order to improve production through less into blooms or slabs without interruption i. e. be downtime and reduced labour costs, increased steel continuously cast and to remain protected from quality, reduced reworking through thinner slab the atmosphere between tundish and mould i. e. be casting and reduced energy usage.
Vesuvius has developed close, collaborative Vesuvius products have a short service life often a relationships with industry-leading customers and matter of a few hours due to the significant wear OEMs and, due to the specialised nature of its caused by the high temperature, high thermal cycling products and the high volume in which they are and the erosive and corrosive environment in which consumed, has developed a global network closely they operate.
The quality of these products impacts aligned with its customers locations, with 72 major both on the quality of the finished metal being manufacturing facilities across the world.
produced and also the productivity, profitability and safety of the customers process.
They represent a Customers of the Steel business are principally relatively small proportion of the input costs of our steel producers themselves, but also include the customers e. g. less than 1% for a steel producer manufacturers of steel production equipment.
Around but their performance is critical to their production 10% to 15% of revenues in the Steel division arise processes.
Therefore, customers demand high quality from non steel-related process industries supplied by and consistent products for these most demanding the Advanced Refractories product line.
applications to ensure maximum safety, quality and productivity.
Vesuvius is a clear global leader in the metal flow market.
com Stock Code: VSVS 17 Steel OPERATING REVIEW THE VESUVIUS PRODUCT OFFERING STEEL FLOW CONTROL Vesuvius products are highly specialised ceramics, Steel Flow Control products supplied by Vesuvius including shrouds, stoppers, nozzles, slide gates, include: the Viso, isostatically pressed alumina lining refractories monolithic and pre-cast and fluxes graphite and VAPEX extruded clay graphite for the steel production industry.
The two product product ranges, including ladle shrouds, stopper lines which comprise the Steel division are Steel rods, submerged entry nozzles and shrouds to Flow Control and Advanced Refractories.
In addition, channel and control the flow of steel from ladle technical and application expertise is a significant to tundish and from tundish to mould: slide-gate part of the product offering.
refractories, including nozzles, plates and speciality shapes for furnace, ladle and tundish slide gate systems: Accumetrix temperature measurement and RADAR slag level detection, tundish and mould fluxes, purging systems and control devices to monitor and regulate steel flow into the mould.
These products have been designed to resist VESUVIUS PRODUCTS FURNACE Advanced Refractories in TURQUOISE text Steel Flow Control in PURPLE text Tap-hole Sleeve Lining EBT Taphole Assembly Bottom Stirring Element Lining LADLE Well Nozzle Purge Plug Ladle Tube Changer LTC Ladle Shroud Tundish Stopper Robotic Casting Technology RCT TUNDISH Lining Tundish Tube Changer Turbostop MOULD Tundish Slide Gate Mould Level Control Tundish Shroud Tundish Gas Diffuser Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 18 Our Performance extreme thermo-mechanical stresses and corrosive INDUSTRY OVERVIEW IN 2012 environments.
They must withstand temperature According to the World Steel Association WSA changes from ambient to 1,600C in just a few global steel production grew 1.2% in 2012 to 1,548 minutes, while resisting liquid steel and slag corrosion megatonnes Mt, with China experiencing growth for many hours.
In addition, the ceramic parts in of 4.7% to 717Mt: global production excluding China contact with the liquid steel must not in any way shrank by 0.2%.
The growth came mainly from Asia contaminate it.
To bring all of these characteristics and North America while crude steel production in together in the same products, Vesuvius has the European Union and South America decreased designed composite parts combining a variety of compared with 2011.
Asias share of world steel special materials.
The majority of these products production, driven predominantly by China, increased are consumed during the process of making steel slightly from 64.5% to 65.4% in 2012. and some must be replaced frequently.
Demand for Vesuvius products is thus primarily linked to steel STEEL DIVISION PERFORMANCE IN 2012 production volumes.
Within the Steel division, there are two principal STEEL product lines, Steel Flow Control and Advanced REVENUE ADVANCED REFRACTORIES Refractories.
In 2012, the Steel divisions revenue of m Products include specialist refractory materials for 1,018 million comprised 542 million for Steel Flow 1,078 lining steelmaking vessels such as blast furnaces, Control and 476 million for Advanced Refractories.
These are in the form of both 980 866 monolithics and, to a lesser extent, refractory shapes STEEL FLOW CONTROL 753 e. g. bricks, pads and dams.
These linings have Global steel production represents almost 100% applications in coke ovens, hot blast stoves, blast of the end-market for Steel Flow Control products furnaces, transfer ladles, basic oxygen furnaces, and services.
There is therefore a strong correlation tundishes, reheating furnaces and electric arc between steel production and Steel Flow Control furnaces.
Whilst global steel production in the first half of the year was approximately 1% higher than Vesuvius is one of the worlds largest manufacturers the first half of 2011, from September onwards there 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 of monolithic refractory linings for vessels subject was a weakening in steel production.
This resulted to extreme temperatures, corrosion and abrasion.
in lower Steel Flow Control revenues, particularly in Their outer shell needs to be protected, either by Europe, Brazil and the USA.
STEEL water cooling or by a layer of refractory material.
The TRADING PROFIT latter is more energy-efficient and therefore the most Revenue of 542 million was 2% higher compared m widespread solution.
On an underlying basis being revenue 107.2 103.4 at constant exchange rates and adjusted for 98.3 Key success factors in the Advanced Refractories the acquisitions of SERT in November 2011 and 83.8 product line are installation technologies, products Metallurgica in March 2012, revenue was down 2% adapted to fit customers processes and effective on the prior year.
and efficient logistics services, these factors being 48.9 successfully combined by Vesuvius R&D centres, its Price increases were implemented in 2012, but these knowledge of customers processes and its project increases have still not fully compensated for the management capability.
escalation of raw material prices in 2011.
However, whilst the latter prices are still higher, particularly for graphite and zirconia, they have remained relatively 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 stable during 2012. www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 19 Steel OPERATING REVIEW STEEL The Steel Flow Control results have been negatively Construction associated with the project to double RETURN ON SALES impacted by reserves for specific potential bad debts the capacity of the existing facility in Trinec, Czech % totalling 3 million, including 2 million relating Republic to service more effectively the Eastern 11.4 to one of its US customers, which filed for Chapter Europe and CIS steel market is complete.
Equipment 10.6 Eleven bankruptcy protection in May 2012. installation, commissioning and production ramp-up 9.9 is ongoing.
The new facility in Brazil to improve the 8.2 The acquisition of Metallurgica was completed on efficiency of raw material processing and sourcing 29 March 2012.
Metallurgica is one of the worlds is also progressing well and is on schedule to be 6.5 leading suppliers of mould flux used alongside operational during 2013. refractory products in the enclosed continuous steel casting process.
The business has been integrated ADVANCED REFRACTORIES into the Steel Flow Control product line and Global iron and steel production represents more made a positive contribution in 2012, in line with than 75% of the end-markets for Advanced expectations.
Refractorys products and services, with the remainder 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 arising from a variety of non-steel markets including Integration of both SERT and Metallurgica continues the cement, lime, aluminium, power generation, STEEL with increasing benefits from the elimination of petrochemical and waste incineration industries.
REVENUE BY agents and commercial responsibility being absorbed LOCATION OF CUSTOMER by the Vesuvius commercial organisation.
In the USA Revenue of 476 million represented a 10% decrease this has allowed us to secure a number of upgrades compared with 2011 at constant exchange rates.
The to Flow Control Systems at thin slab casters.
decrease in revenue was wholly due to a reduction in revenue in Andreco-Hurll, the refractory lining We have continued to focus our efforts on developing installation operation based in Australia, and a innovative technical solutions around the continuous conscious effort to exit low-margin business in other caster.
The latest robot compatible Tundish Tube regions.
As part of the divisions strategy of exiting Changer SEM3085 and the first products of our new low-margin businesses, on 24 July 2012, AndrecoRobotic Casting Technology RCT range have been Hurll was sold to Veolia Environmental Services for launched with contracts already secured in Europe, a cash consideration of approximately Aus$8 million Asia, South America and the USA.
In the first half of 2012, Andreco-Hurll n NAFTA 31% had revenue of 12 million and a trading profit of n EUROPE 30% We have also successfully launched our innovative 0.6 million.
Andreco-Hurll revenue in 2011 was n ASIA-PACIFIC 25% new concept Ladle Slidegate LT80 which offers a 57 million.
Excluding the Andreco-Hurll business, n ROW 14% Plug & Play replacement for existing Flow Control revenue in 2012 decreased 1% over 2011.
installation market has been exited, a refractories manufacturing and sales business has been retained in Australia, with investment being made in a new production facility.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 20 Our Performance Raw material prices, notably for dead-burned In addition, restructuring of the sales and marketing magnesite the single most important raw material teams in South America, North America and Europe for Advanced Refractories were largely stable was introduced towards the end of the year, which during 2012, following large increases in 2011.
As well as restructuring and stability of the pricing was due to a large strategic management changes, technical and marketing purchase of magnesite, with some of the increase training was also reinvigorated.
in inventory offset by negotiated extended payment terms.
Selling price increases were achieved in line with inflation and no margin loss was experienced due In addition to the new investment in Australia, a to cost increases.
Overall, margin percentage for the new monolithic Advanced Refractory facility was business increased, although some of this increase completed towards the end of 2012 in Ras Al was offset as a result of sales reducing by 53 Khaimah, United Arab Emirates at a total cost of million.
The first half of 2012 had shown very positive 4 million and will serve the fast-growing Middle results, but the sudden downturn in the second half East market.
Local production will facilitate greater of the year affected overhead recovery and thus penetration of the Advanced Refractories product line reduced second half margins.
Operating costs include allowing short lead times and production flexibility.
a bad debt charge of 6 million.
An investment was made in the USA to increase capacity by 50% in ELBY production, the revolutionary patented concept of producing cleaner steel and improving customer output yield by up to 2%, as well as reducing the endemic problem steel mills face downgrading steel when producing shortrun specialised steels.
TM Image: Turbostop TM Image: ELBY Enhanced Ladle Bottom Yield www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 21 Image: Vesuvius foundry Research and Development centre Borken Germany Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 22
