Directors report and business review Review of operations: Travel Review of operations Travel The Travel business is focused on delivering value to shareholders through organic growth in its existing outlets, securing new contracts, trialling new formats, increasing average transaction value and making improvements to trading efficiency.
Nature of business and markets The Travel business trades under the same brand as the High Street business and operates 619 units, mainly in airports, railway stations, motorway service areas, hospitals and workplaces, primarily in the UK, with 62 units in international locations.
Of the 619 units, 159 are operated under franchise agreements.
Travel stores sell a more tailored range of products than High Street stores to cater for people on the move or in need of a convenience offer.
Travels typical customer has less time to browse than the High Street customer and is more interested in reading materials for a journey as well as purchasing food, drink and confectionery.
Consequently, there is a limited demand for stationery and entertainment products and the stock and layout of each Travel store reflects this.
Due to their location and convenience nature, Travel stores are, onaverage, significantly smaller than those in the High Street portfolio.
At 31 August 2012, Travel operated from a total of 0.5m square feet of selling space, with units ranging in size from 90 square feet to more than 6,000 square feet.
Of the 619 Travel units, 147 are in airports, 124 in railway stations, 121 in motorway service areas most of which are franchise units, 114 in hospitals and 51 in locations such as bus stations, workplaces and also our Funky Pigeon stores.
Travel now operates from 62 international units in Europe, the Middle East, Australia, South-East Asia and India.
Travel has a separate operating structure and management team from High Street, reflecting the distinct operational and strategic challenges of the two businesses.
Travel stores are typically in higher footfall locations than High Street stores, resulting in higher average rents, with rents paid as a percentage of sales subject to minimum guarantees.
Travel is less affected by the Christmas trading period.
Increased passenger traffic during the summer holiday season, particularly in airports, contributes to a summer peak in sales.
WH Smith PLC 8 Annual report and accounts 2012 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Performance 2012 2011 % Like-for-like m m Change % Change Revenue 462 455 2 3 1 Trading profit 63 57 11 1 Travel trading profit is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
Growth drivers Performance review 2011 12 The Travel business offers opportunities for expansion in each of Travel delivered another good profit performance during the year its channels and continues to win new contracts in airports, despite the tough economic climate, demonstrating the strength railway stations, motorway service areas, hospitals and of the business model which enables us to continue to grow even 1 workplaces.
Despite continued variability in passenger numbers in a challenging environment.
Trading profit increased by 11per between airports, medium-term forecasts suggest that cent to 63m 2011: 57m as a result of higher sales, an increase passenger numbers in Air will return to growth.
Travelis in gross margin and a focus on cost control.
We continue to well-positioned to benefit when the economy improves and benefit from variable rents based on turnover and are wellpassenger numbers do return to growth.
positioned when the economy improves and passenger numbers return to growth.
The business continues to develop new store formats such as WHSmith Express, WHSmith BooksPlus, WHSmith Caf and the Total Travel sales grew by two per cent driven by new business.
We continue to grow our international Like-for-like sales were down by three per cent.
Gross margin business using different operating models: direct lease, joint increased by around 160bps during the year, driven by active venture and franchise.
As at 31 August 2012 we operated 62 units category mix management.
We continue to identify further in international locations, and have won a further 39 which are opportunities for growth in the UK and opened 35 units during the yetto open.
year with a similar number planned for 2012 13.
In our Airport stores we saw like-for-like sales down four per Competitive position and strengths cent.
As expected, air passenger numbers remain soft overall The Travel business is impacted by geopolitical events, war and and airports with a higher business travel mix are performing acts of terrorism, which have from time to time contributed to a better than other airports.
We also continue to see a stronger mix reduction in commuter and travelling customer traffic and a of overseas passengers coming to the UK versus UK departing heightened apprehension around rail and air travel.
Closure of passengers, particularly this summer during the Olympics, and routes, both planned and unplanned, such as strikes and expect these trends to continue during the current year.
 disruption, as well as other factors affecting term, forecasts suggest that passenger numbers will return to passenger traffic, can also affect operating results.
growth and we are well-positioned when the recovery does come.
We continue to invest in our estate and during the year we rolled Travel faces competition in its product categories primarily from out self-service checkouts to large airside units with the aim of other retailers in rail, air, motorways, hospitals and workplaces.
improving queuing and customer service.
This type of initiative The growth of these retailers may take market share from Travel demonstrates our continued investment and leading position in and have a negative impact on revenue and profit.
the market, which helps us to continue to win new space.
We Travel has significant competitive strengths.
Its business model is opened six new units in Air in the year and expect a similar made up of three elements: a compelling customer proposition number of units to open in 2012 13. with a widely recognised and respected brand, a strong track In Rail like-for-like sales were down four per cent overall, with record with landlords, and the ability to translate the London mainline stations down three per cent and regional rail fundamentals of the model to other formats and channels.
This continuing trend, showing London is a business also has prime locations in each of its main channels: little more insulated from the current economic conditions, is high levels of customer footfall: purchasing and sourcing scale: reflective of the picture we also see in Air.
We successfully and an experienced senior management team.
Considering all completed six refits of major units, however we saw further these factors, the Board believes that Travel is well-placed to disruption in a number of mainline stations during the year as create shareholder value by delivering long-term profit growth station refits continued in preparation for the London 2012 and strong cash generation.
We opened four new units in Rail during the year, including Stratford International, and plan to open a similar number of units in regional railway stations in the year ahead.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 9 Directors report and business review Review of operations: Travel Review of operations continued We have worked hard to establish a strong presence in the In our International markets, the WHSmith brand and offer Hospital channel and continue to consistently expand our store continue to be well received and we have demonstrated in each base.
Like-for-like sales in Hospitals were up one per cent, being location that we can add value and deliver improved performance.
impacted less by the current economic slowdown.
Our We continue to identify opportunities to grow, in a low risk and understanding of the needs of this channel continues to improve pragmatic way, and we have made further progress in a number alongside improvements in our range and offer.
During the year of regions, including Australia, South-East Asia, India and the we opened seven new hospital units, including locations such as Middle East.
On 11 October 2012, we announced a further 21 new Kirkcaldy and Salisbury, and we now have 114 units open, from a units: seven in Australia, including five Fresh Plus hospital caf base of only seven in 2007.
We anticipate opening around 10 units stores which we acquired in September, three in Malaysia and 11 a year over the next few years.
in the Middle East, including five in Amman airport in Jordan.
We now have 101 international units either open or won, including In the Workplace channel we also continue to grow, opening eight stores in Air, Rail, Hospitals and Malls.
units in the year to take us to 23 units now open.
We expect to continue to be able to open new space in this channel into the We will continue to grow our international business utilising our medium-term.
different operating models: direct lease, franchise and jointventure.
Of the 101 units we have already opened or won, 67 per We continue to invest for the future in Travel, for example, in cent are franchise, 25 per cent are direct lease and the remainder technology, where we have invested in self-service checkouts and are joint venture.
handheld scanners: in resources, where we have strengthened senior management, space planning and our international The Travel business now operates from 619 units, including division: and in format development, where we see opportunities motorway service area and international franchise units and to extend the WHSmith brand and develop new brands both in the coffee shops.
Seven units were closed during the year, primarily UK and internationally.
due to landlord redevelopment and we renewed 32 contracts and completed 16 refits.
Excluding franchise units, Travel occupies 0.5m square feet 2011: 0.5m square feet.
WH Smith PLC 10 Annual report and accounts 2012 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Directors report and business review Review of operations: High Street High Street The High Street plan concentrates on building authority in our core categories, optimising margins, controlling costs and ensuring we deliverthe retailing basics.
Nature of business, market and competitive position The High Street business operates 618 stores with an extensive reach across the UK and a presence on nearly every significant UK high street.
At 31 August 2012, High Street operated from a total of 3.0m square feet of selling space, with stores ranging in size from 777 square feet to more than 23,000 square feet.
High Street sells a wide range of products, which are divided into the following categories: Stationery including greetings cards, Books, and News and Impulse including newspapers, magazines and confectionery, as well as a small range of Entertainment products in some stores.
High Streets trading is seasonal, peaking at Christmas, with other peaks at Easter and in August September for Back to School.
The online retail business is operated by High Street and sells a range of Books, Stationery, Magazines and Gifts through its website at www.
co. uk and personalised greetings cards and gifts through www.
Growth drivers High Streets performance is dependent upon overall growth in consumer spending, growth in the non-food, non-clothing sector and High Streets ability to take share in its product markets.
The management team believes that, following the continued slowdown in consumer spending in our markets, we should see a return to more normal levels of growth over the longer term.
We continue to invest in the High Street estate and to identify opportunities to open new stores in un-served catchments.
Competitive position and strengths High Streets competition comes primarily from other high street specialists, supermarkets and internet retailers.
Online retailers offer customers access to, and digital versions of, our product categories via their computers and mobile devices, while supermarkets give customers access to our product categories as they carry out their regular food shopping.
The growth of these formats may take market share away from the High Street business and may have a negative effect on the sales and profit generated by our High Street stores.
High Street has significant competitive strengths.
The Board believes it is well-placed to deliver good cash generation and create shareholder value through factors such as its widely respected and recognised brand: prime sites in key UK high street retail locations: high customer footfall: leading positions inits target categories: purchasing and sourcing scale, driving value for the customer: an experienced senior management team: and managing our space allocation between and within our core categories and other services.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 11 Directors report and business review Review of operations: High Street Performance 2012 2011 Change Like-for-like m m % % Change Revenue 781 818 5 5 1 Trading profit 54 52 4 1 High Street trading profit is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
In Books, the smallest of our core categories, like-for-like sales Performance review 2011 12 were down but gross margin was up year on year.
The books High Street delivered a resilient performance in challenging market continues to vary by sub-category.
Kids saw an 1 trading conditions with trading profit of 54m 2011: 52m, up improvement year on year, driven by good publishing, whilst in four per cent on the prior year.
This was achieved through Non-Fiction at Christmas we annualised strong publishing from continuing our strategy to focus on our core categories, whilst the previous year.
In Fiction, the first half of the year remained focusing on optimising margins, tightly controlling costs and weak, as expected, with the second half stronger due to the delivering the retailing basics.
Cash generation in the division positive publishing schedule, led by the Fifty Shades trilogy.
We continues to be strong.
saw encouraging share performance versus the general retail market across all three sub-categories, reinforcing the strength High Street sales were down five per cent both in total and on a of our consumer proposition.
like-for-like basis, reflecting the current economic climate and our active management of Entertainment, particularly in the Our position in Books is well established, differentiated from our firsthalf.
competitors and provides our customers, who tend to be lighter book buyers, with what they want from a bookseller a proper During the year we delivered gross margin improvement of range, great value and promotions like the Richard and Judy around 120bps.
This continues to be driven by rebalancing the mix Book Club, that give our customers the confidence to choose a of the business to focus on higher margin categories such as book they know they will enjoy.
Additional margin improvement has come from better buying terms and improved sourcing and markdown While the eBooks market continues to grow, it still represents management.
only a small proportion of the consumer books market in the UK.
Within core consumer books, eBooks is focused on Fiction, which Our strategy to build on our market leading position in Stationery represents over 80 per cent of eBook downloads.
Like-for-like sales were down, with gross market is lighter, less affluent book buyers with around 75 per margin up and we saw a good share performance across both cent of our book sales in Non-Fiction and Kids.
We managed our stock tightly in all categories, given the trading conditions, which helped support We continue to develop our presence in the eBooks market this further improvement in gross margin.
We continue to make through increasing our space to eBooks and optimising the space progress developing the category and have introduced new between eBooks, physical books and our other categories, and ranges in time for Christmas this year, including a wide range of developing our partnership with Kobo.
Performance of Kobo Gadgetshop branded products.
We saw a strong performance continues to be ahead of plan.
During the year we successfully from www.
com over the key seasons and we rolled out Kobo shops into our one hundred largest High Street continue to create high levels of brand awareness.
Whilst it is still early days, we are pleased with their develop the offer, including the launch of Me to You cards, an performance.
"We have also recently launched this seasons new increased range of humour cards and new personalised gifting device line-up, including: the Kobo Mini, the Kobo Glo and a 7"" products."
android tablet, the Kobo Arc.
News and Impulse like-for-like sales were down year on year Cost savings remain a core part of our strategy and we have with further improvement in gross margin and a strong market continued to make good progress again this year.
By the year end, share performance.
The newspaper and magazine market we delivered 17m of cost savings.
These came from across the remains challenging, however we continue to develop the business, including the roll-out of self-scan checkouts to 109 strongly-growing bookazine category with our range now High Street stores, our energy efficient lighting initiative and other consisting of over one hundred titles, with some successful operational efficiencies.
We have identified an additional recent launches including a Jubilee edition and a Bradley Wiggins 12mofnew cost savings, taking the target to 25m over the special edition.
Impulse categories continue to perform well and nextthree years.
we continue to increase the space to this category.
2 The High Street business now operates from 618 stores, which occupy 3.0m square feet 2011: 3.1m square feet.
We opened 12 new stores during the year in line with our strategy to open in un-served catchments.
2 Including branches in Guernsey and Isle of Man.
WH Smith PLC 12 Annual report and accounts 2012
