Our Business | Operating Review | Professional Services Professional Services How are we performing?
With presence in 70 countries worldwide, Professional Services is an Order book important bridgehead into our growth markets.
We continue to broaden and 5% deepen ourtechnical expertise to 2012 1.6bn winwork while improving our cost 2011 1.6bn efficiency and business mix toincrease 2010 1.5bn our margins.
Revenue including JVs and associates What do we do?
t Programme and project management t Construction management 1% t Project design 2012 1,668m t Technical services 2011 1,645m t Planning 2010 1,613m t Consultancy Whats happened?
t Increased transportation market share in the Americas profit before non-underlying items t significant highways wins in US following approval of Transportation Bill t Acquisition of Subsurface Group to expand energy storage capability 13% t Highways, rail and power transmission contract wins involving other Groupbusinesses totalling 2 billion 2012 98m Whats next?
2011 87m t Direct our resources to markets that align with the Groups focus sectors 2010 85m and geographic markets t benefit from favourable developments in procurement models in the UStransportation market Divisional KPI t Remain focused on resource utilisation and cost efficiency to expand margins further Billability Billability is a good measure of resource utilisation, and hence profitability, in what is essentially a billable hours business.
In 2012, billability improved in the UK and the Middle East, but this favourable impact was more than offset by weaker billability in Australia and significant investment in design-build opportunities in the US.
2012 58.3% 2011 58.7% 2010 58.7% Computes total direct labour cost charged to projects divided by total labour cost ofemployees.
28 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Operating Review | Professional Services Our strategy Thirty-one states have now put PPPProfessional Services, trading under the enabling legislation in place, and big PPP Parsons Brinckerhoff brand, is a fee-based projects are beginning to be tendered.
We win work only a few have reached financial close, onthe strength of our track record of mainly in Texas.
In an environment where technical expertise and execution.
By clients are seeking speed of execution and applying our resources to best effect, lower interface risk, design-build models weaim to increase our billability rate have also gained traction.
whilereducing overall project costs for In this environment, we believe we again ourclients and in some cases retaining increased our transportation market share ashare of these savings.
Professional Services is at the heart of Our US power business is still small but theGroups growth strategy.
Along with goes from strength to strength in target Integrating our Infrastructure Investments, we are a key segments which are themselves growing.
component of the strategy to access professional services In power generation, we specialise in EPC emerging markets where downstream contracts for peaking plants, which are expertise with construction activity may be limited by indemand as the oil and gas industry capabilities from challenges such as incompatible health develops.
Another related business is and safety and ethical standards.
other parts of the energy storage: we acquired Subsurface Group proved an Our Professional Services acquisition Group at the end of the year to broaden strategy aims to build a platform from our presence and capabilities in this area.
effective bid winner which we can grow the business by The Canadian market is reasonably active, in 2012. leveraging our construction, support with economic infrastructure faring better services and investment capabilities.
Our strengthened position Acquisition targets should therefore Chief Executive officer, following the acquisition of Halsall has accord with the Groups target Professional Services helped us to grow in the transportation geographies, such as Australia and and power markets, and we see further Brazil, and target sectors, such as opportunity ahead.
powerand energy, water and mining.
Inaddition, Professional Services looks Europe, Middle East foropportunities in transportation and and Northern Africa powerin the US, its major market, to The UK market remains extremely accelerate organic growth or ll specic competitive, but volumes in the capability gaps.
transportation sector have stabilised andeven improved.
This is evidenced by We continue to achieve cost efficiencies strong tendering activity, particularly in see Operational performance on mainline rail and regional highways sectors.
pages 30 and 31 and shift our business mix towards higher margin services.
Opportunities in the Arabian Gulf are still Typically these involve programme attractive as countries such as Qatar, management roles and projects with Saudi Arabia and Kuwait invest in design-build, PPP public private transportation and power infrastructure partnership and EPC engineering, toachieve their long term development procurement, construction visions.
There are also signs of some characteristics, where we can achieve recovery in the United Arab Emirates.
returns commensurate with the higher Asia, Australia-Pacic level of risk we take, compared with our and Southern Africa traditional client side consultancy work.
Following several buoyant years, Collaboration and knowledge sharing are particularly in power and mining, Australia key to delivering this strategy.
They are experienced somewhat mixed market essential to leveraging the Groups conditions in 2012.
Faltering commodity capabilities, and where we take more demand from China hit the mining sector, commercial risk they ensure that we which responded by cancelling or manage it effectively by sharing best postponing capital projects.
Despite this, practices and processes across the Group.
our relatively small mining business was able to grow and gain market share.
Our marketplace Americas We were also active in the power market, US transportation markets remained on particularly in EPC power generation the whole challenging, due to varying plants under 100MW, and continue to levels of budgetary constraint faced by pursue opportunities in this segment.
The authorisation of the The transportation market remained Transportation Bill in July 2012, after two atinthe year and shows little sign of and a half years, helped to progress some improvement and thus, we have adjusted projects that were in design stage, but our Australian workforce to the level there was little growth to speak of.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Our Business | Operating Review | Professional Services Meanwhile, our mechanical, electrical and the customary six years, and the only general engineering consultants on a plumbing services for complex buildings partially resolved scal cliff remains a transit programme that will be one of the have continued to grow strongly in dragon decision making, we benefited largest public infrastructure projects ever Singapore, Hong Kong and China assome large projects moved forward.
undertaken in the Waterloo region.
inJune we won a contract to design the In October we won a design-build replacement of the controls, drives and Financial performance contract to provide construction overhead cables at the Burlington Canal Professional Services performed well, engineering and inspection CE&I Lift Bridge, spanning the Burlington Canal improving its order book by 5% despite services for the widening of the to connect Burlington and Hamilton on uncertainty arising from presidential I-4interstate highway in Volusia County, Lake Ontarios western shore.
elections and the scal cliff in the US Florida.
Signicantly, although the contract where the division generates half of its was bid on a best value procurement We have taken several steps to ensure revenue.
Strong growth in the rest of the basis, we won the contract on the growth in the attractive power sector world, particularly Qatar and Canada, strength of our qualications.
As noted above, we contributed to revenue.
Performance was acquired Subsurface Group to expand our In November, as part of a design-build mixed in Australia, with a revenue decline activities in US energy storage services.
joint venture, we were named as best in transportation offset partly by growth Subsurface provides services in value bidder to undertake the upgrade and inmining.
While this has impacted underground injection, underground replacement of river crossings in Dallas, utilisation rates adversely, profitability in storage, specialty wells, petroleum and Texas.
This project, a collaboration Australia remains healthy.
The UK remains natural resources, and environmental between Professional Services and US a difficult market, but recent restructuring science.
Based in Houston, Texas with construction, is detailed in the crosshas improved financial performance.
ofces in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and Group collaboration section on page 31.
Underlying profit increased by 13% to South Bend, Indiana, its 37-strong team 98million with good contributions from We are currently bidding other US generated some US$50 million ofrevenue transportation and power sectors and design-build transportation projects, with in 2012. some favourable alliance and at-risk both our US construction business and In 2012 we successfully completed contracts in Australia and Asia.
With fewer third party construction companies with Marathon Petroleum Companys projects of this type expected to complete whom we have a good track record.
Designed and in 2013, margin performance is likely to be constructed by Parsons Brinckerhoff to Our three major ongoing projects highslightly weaker.
store a million barrels of liquid butane, this speed rail in California, the Westside is the first hard rock storage cavern built Operational performance Subway Extension in Los Angeles and inthe US since 1984.
Americas theSecond Avenue Subway in New York In the US, where 80% of our activity is in are progressing well.
In January 2013 our joint venture with the transportation sector, spending by the Kvaerner won an EPC contract to design In Canada we have been successful in federal and state departments of transport and build the Garrison Energy Center, a leveraging the platform provided by Halsall is crucial to our business.
So the long 309MW combined cycle gas-red power to expand into transportation and power delayed authorisation of the Transportation plant in Delaware.
In May the Regional Municipality Bill in July 2012 was an important turning of Waterloo, Ontario appointed us as point.
While the bills term is shorter than Giving commuters 2 morehours each week Parsons Brinckerhoff is lead designer on a long-awaited project to enhance two road tunnel routes under the Elizabeth River between Portsmouth andNorfolk in Virginia, USA.
Since the original tunnel was built 50years ago the local population has grown by 70% and trafc has risen 600%.
The US$2.1 billion project is upgrading theexisting tunnels, adding afurther 1,400m two-lane tunnel and extending the expressway links.
From 2017, it shouldsave 20 minutes a day forthe average commuter by reducing congestion and it is forecast to bring regional economic benets of US$170254million per annum.
30 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Operating Review | Professional Services Europe, Middle East Our business in power generation and Northern Africa continues to build momentum, based The restructuring of our UK operation onthe international team established 2bn hasenabled us to be competitive in the forthe EPC contract at Karratha in market, which has been evidenced in Western Australia.
Contract wins involving other anumber of successful major bids.
Group businesses We will be focusing the business on Encouragingly, in 2012 we saw net mining, design-build and power projects increases in staff numbers across the while we make adjustments to our region of well over 200, and in the second workforce both by geography and by half of the year saw increases in the UK 1 million sector to retain a sustainable presence aswell as in the Middle East.
Barrels of liquid butane that In the year, we won the preliminary design can be stored in Catlettsburg In South Africa, we received a further of both railway systems packages for the Cavern No.
2 voteof confidence as our engineering UKs HS2 project and all three structures andprogramme management contract engineering packages for Transport for atMedupi Power Station was extended London TfL in the UK as well as the by another two years.
programme management award for the Odense Light Rail project in Denmark.
Cross-Group collaboration Inthe highways sector, we secured Collaboration between Professional anumber of important wins in Wales.
Services and the other Group businesses is a powerful competitive differentiator for Our two major projects in Qatar the Balfour Beatty.
Many of the Groups major Qatar Rail Strategic Programme Manager contract wins in 2012 were due at least in and the Project Management Consultant part to its distinctive ability to combine for Local Roads & Drainage for Ashghal professional services capabilities with have developed considerably over the other parts of its business.
year, with combined staff numbers now Developing Medupi exceeding 250.
We are pursuing further For example, in January 2012 Denmarks opportunities in Qatar.
railway operator and developer, Power Station Banedanmark, awarded us a 335 million Parsons Brinckerhoff is We have been active in Saudi Arabia for contract to transform much of the providing engineering and many years, and our work on the Rabigh countrys rail signalling system.
The programme management Power Station continues to perform well.
winning bid integrated our Rail businesss support to Eskom, South Asia, Australia-Pacic expertise in signalling installation with Africas power utility, for the and Southern Africa programme management services from development of the Medupi While Australias public transportation Parsons Brinckerhoff.
Power Station, a 4,800MW market has been at, some interesting power plant that will be one In November, our construction business trends are emerging in the procurement ofthe largest in the world was named best value bidder, in a ofhighways maintenance.
Recently we when completed in 2015. design-build joint venture with Fluor formed a bid consortium, in partnership Corporation, to upgrade and replace river with Transeld Services, totarget state crossings in Dallas.
Parsons Brinckerhoffs government outsourcing opportunities technical design and our US construction inhighways maintenance onthe east businesss experience in design-build coast of Australia.
A joint team from were instrumental in winning this project, Australia and the UK has collaborated worth around 500 million.
totransfer knowledge and best practice developed inrecent years in the UK to And towards the end of the year, Australianmarkets.
Professional Services and Support Services teams collaborated to win Despite an overall slowdown in the mining twomajor contracts worth 1.1 billion sector, our business grew in 2012, albeit toupgrade the UKs gas distribution from a small base.
One example is our network for National Grid.
established credentials in the Hunter Valley, New South Wales.
Following on Looking forward from our feasibility work for the Cobbora We continue to direct our resources to Coal Project, we have also been awarded markets that align with the Groups focus Phase 2 EPCM early works programme sectors and geographic markets.
Indeed and most recently Phase 3 detailed inmany cases, we create the access design, tender, evaluation and routes to those markets through our local recommendation which commenced in presence, client relationships or our January 2013.
In Mozambiques Zambezi advantage from being at the very top River Basin, on the Estima Coal Project, ofthe value chain.
our engagement began at the preWe expect favourable market feasibility phase, and moved through developments and new opportunities, feasibility, engineering, design and further specically in transportation in the US, study.
We are now owners engineer and Canada and the Middle East, mining project manager for the project.
inAustralia and more generally in powerglobally.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
