Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7 The Groups average selling price has increased to 186,648... representing an average annual increase of 6.6% since July 2009. Business Review In addition to increased volume, revenue growth is alsobeing achieved as the Groups average selling price Chief Executives has increased to 186,648 2011 175,613.
This represents an average annual increase of 6.6% since Operating Review July 2009, during a period of nil house price inflation.
The average selling price has increased in the north by 4.8% to 151,376 and in the south, by 5.9% to 216,031.
The average selling price of private homes exceeded 200,000 for the first time and is up 4.6% to200,287 compared to the previous year.
The Group has benefited from a number of private completions from CONTINUING OUR THREE high value sites such as Sunningdale in Berkshire and Crouch End in north London where the average PRONGEDSTRATEGY sellingprice is 433,000 and 371,000 respectively.
There is an increasing realisation that more housebuilding The average selling price of Housing Association is acatalyst for growth in the UK and with the assistance homes was broadly similar to last year at 118,171. ofgovernment initiatives in the new homes market, we remain optimistic and believe that our business model will The operating margin has increased from 8.5% to 11.4% make the most of gradually improving marketconditions.
and is supported by strong control of the cost base, together with some 55% of completions during the year At the start of the year the Group set itself a target of coming from higher profit margin sites, acquired since improving returns by growing volumes, average selling 2008, compared with 27% in the previous year.
price and operating margin whilst, simultaneously, The effect of growth in volume, average selling price maintaining strict capital disciplines, thereby improving and operating margin has resulted in an increase of thereturn on capital employed.
57% in profit before tax to 105.3 million from 67.2 Even though the national output of new homes million the previous year.
isreported to be at or near an all time low of approximately 120,000 homes, Bellway has now achieved LAND BANK AND FUTURE three consecutive years of increased volume output.
MARGINGROWTH Weended the year under review with completions upby 6.2% to 5,226 homes.
This was supported by an With a strong balance sheet and 300 million of bank increase in the completion of private homes of 13.4% facilities currently in place the Groups land teams are to4,358.
This volume growth is primarily derived from expanding and have been able to acquire land at gross increasing the average number of sales outlets to 208 margins in excess of 20%.
Our approach to land buying from 195, having opened 40 new outlets during the year.
isgoverned, not only by the gross margin but also by the This increase was supported by a stronger market in the capital required to develop each new outlet, the period south of England where the Group continues to benefit of the development and the anticipated sales rate.
from exposure to the London boroughs.
Completions to Minimum targets are therefore set specifically in relation Housing Associations declined to 868 2011 1,079 of to the return on capital employed which, if achieved, will which 608 were in the south.
result in enhanced shareholder return.
1 The Ridings, Shalbourne, Wiltshire Completed sales homes 1 2 Claire Callender who moved to Gellir Rhedyn, Fforestfach, Swansea 5,226 and her sister Stephanie who lives at our development at Parc Penderri, Penllergaer, Swansea 6.2% 23 3 Bellefield, Liverpool, Merseyside Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 8 Bellway developments in London boroughs the Group continues to benefit from exposure to the London boroughs.
North London Enfield Barnet Waltham Haringey Forest Harrow Redbridge Brent Hackney Camden Hillingdon Islington Newham Tower Hamlets Ealing City of City of 2 5 Westminster Hammersmith LONDON & Fulham Kensington & Chelsea 2 Greenwich Hounslow Southwark Wandsworth Lambeth Lewisham Richmond upon Thames 2 Merton Kingston upon Thames Bromley Sutton Croydon South East Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 1 Limehouse Lock, Limehouse, London Borough of Tower Hamlets 1 2 New Festival Quarter roof garden, Poplar, London Borough of TowerHamlets 3 Moselle Place, Hornsey, London Borough of Haringey 2 3 25 Current Sites 25 Future Sites Havering Barking & Dagenham Essex Bexley Thames Gateway Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10 1 1 Leavesden development site, Hertfordshire Business Review The average plot cost at the start of the financial year was 35,800 and this increased to 39,000 at the year end.
Chief Executives Operating Sites located in areas such as Lambeth and Fulham, in south and south west London respectively, carry higher Review continued plot costs but, similarly, higher selling prices compared to the Groups current average selling price.
Despite this high land plot cost, the gross margins and return on capital disciplines referred to earlier are not compromised.
In addition, our long-term land holdings, typically held under option, represent some 2,800 acres.
Within this part of the land bank are 3,900 plots which are currently Whilst cash expenditure on land and land creditors allocated in emerging plans, of which 1,773 plots are increased to 305 million, a conservative approach presently the subject of planning applications.
The Group togearing is still being maintained in light of current had, at 31 July 2012, agreed terms for the acquisition of market conditions.
The short and medium-term land afurther 4,700 plots, all at a variety of stages within the bank, excluding long-term land, amounted to 31,136 planning process and of these, circa 500 plots have been plots at the end of July 2012 2011 31,086.
This is acquired since the year end.
divided into 17,636 plots owned with detailed planning permission and a further 13,500 plots which are either DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE owned or contracted pending a planning permission, which we refer to as the pipeline.
We have acquired The current structure of 13 divisions is managed by our some 54% of the short and medium-term plots since Regional Chairmen who report to the Operations thehousing market downturn and the short and Director.
We construct and sell homes throughout the medium-term land bank is evenly spread across UK with the exception of the north of Scotland, the thecountry.
south west of England and Northern Ireland.
During the year, 4,776 new plots were brought into The northern divisions, covering a geographical area theland bank with planning permission, of which 2,304 fromthe Midlands up to central Scotland, legally plots were new acquisitions and a further 2,472 plots completed 2,375 homes, an increase of 30 compared were converted from the pipeline after receiving tothe previous year.
The North East and East Midlands planningpermission.
divisions performed well, increasing volumes to 525 and 409 completions respectively.
The average selling price in the northern divisions was 151,376, an increase of 4.8%, driven largely by changes in product mix.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 2 2 Customer care in action The seven divisions trading in the south benefited from The Group seeks to ensure that all employees and a stronger market and accounted for 63% of housing sub-contractors on our building sites carry a CSCS turnover, representing 2,851 homes, an increase of 274 qualification, further highlighting our commitment to homes on the previous year.
Our Thames Gateway atrained workforce.
division retains a strong presence in and around the east Looking forward, whilst we need to keep customers of London where 725 homes were legally completed.
asour primary focus, we must also work with all Overall, the average selling price of the southern stakeholders to manage the effects of our operations divisions increased by 5.9% to 216,031.
Progress during the year, with selling price in the South East division is now the highest regard to corporate responsibility, is published in full in the Group at just over 286,000. onour website.
The Group has engaged the services ofan external consultant to advise on all corporate CUST OMER CARE AND THE WIDER responsibility matters including benchmarking, setting COMMUNITY targets and objectives and reporting.
During the course of a year we monitor customer In order to minimise the effect on the local community satisfaction levels by employing an independent company ever increasing consultation is taking place both before who benchmark our performance.
We continue to and during the development process.
We have also now generate strong satisfaction scores which, this year, registered some 128 sites with Considerate reached 93.8% in respect of Recommend Bellway to a Constructors, an independent third party body which Friend.
Additionally, Head Office management contacts assesses our working practices and ensures the customers directly on a regular basis with any findings or minimum of disruption during the construction period.
concerns reported to divisional management.
We aim to respond to customer complaints within seven days, with MARKET PLACE AND OUTLOOK a 24 hour helpline in the case of emergencies, and the In March 2012, NewBuy, a new sales incentive, was Group has been awarded a 5 star rating by the House introduced which is underwritten by the government Builders Federation following a survey of our customers.
and allows buyers to acquire new build houses and Every year the NHBC run a Pride in the JobAward for apartments, provided they are able to access a 5% site construction staff and this year we received 23 deposit.
This was in response to a continued lack of awards which is our fourth consecutive year of availability of affordable high loan to value mortgages, improvement.
This reflects the amount of training being particularly for first time buyers, despite strong demand undertaken in the business, especially at site level, which in the market place.
Encouragingly, this incentive was is set to increase in the future.
In addition, for the second used to reserve 133 homes in the period up to 31 July year running, our East Midlands division has won the 2012.
A similar scheme was introduced into Scotland NHBC Regional Award for the East of England.
The Group has continued to have seen a fall in our accident rate per employee operate a part-exchange scheme and this has accounted during the year and no statutory notices have been for 13% of completions in the financial year ended July served on the Group now for over three years.
In addition, the use of FirstBuy in England and the year five sites received commendation awards in other Group shared equity schemes in Scotland and respect of health and safety standards.
Wales accounted for only 6% of total completions, areduction from 10% in the previous year.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 12 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review continued These and other incentives were employed throughout In addition to increasing the volume of completions the course of the year to support the weekly sales rate during the course of the year, the enhanced sales rate of 101 per week 2011 93.
This represents an increase has resulted in an order book at the end of the year of 9% in the sales rate and can be attributed to stability rising in volume terms to 2,533 from 2,497 in 2011. in both the mortgage market and unemployment levels The average selling price of the order book was up 2% in the UK and consequently, cancellation rates have to 174,176, representing some 441.2 million in value remained stable at around 13%.
terms, an increase of 14.4 million on the previous year.
The recent government announcement on housing We are targeting to increase the number of sales outlets, issues highlighted a number of initiatives to stimulate once again, by around 5% by the end of this financial year housebuilding, some of which will have implications and and as more new land comes into production, this will opportunities for the Group.
These initiatives include the underpin our strategy of increasing volumes, average proposed extension of FirstBuy, the increase in the selling price and operating margin.
This, combined with a amount of public land made available for development strong balance sheet, will leave the Group well positioned purposes, the review of Section 106 Agreements entered to further enhance net asset value and shareholder into prior to 6 April 2010 and a capital programme for return in the new financial year.
private, rented and affordable housing.
We welcome these initiatives, the full effects of which will become clear in the coming months.
John Watson Chief Executive 15 October 2012 1 2 1 Old Killingworth Manor, Killingworth, Tyne and Wear 2 Interior at The Old Stables, Rochester, Kent Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 3 4 3 The Singh family who used part-exchange to move to Grosvenor Park, Barnsley, SouthYorkshire 4 Site Manager Graham Towler left and Group Health and Safety Manager Nigel Squires at Park View, Darlington, Teesside Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 &9-0 -2 VIBRANT ERH WYWXEMREFPI PLACES XS PMZI ERH [SVO
