Business Review Operational Review During the year, a greater focus on retaining higher value customers Core Betfair resulted in reduced churn in this segment and the average revenue per We are pleased with the progress made against our strategic aims in the customer ARPU from existing customers increased by 13%.
Revenue growth has accelerated, with double digit growth from the these customers generated 88% of revenue.
second quarter onwards: margins have improved: and new products, both delivered and planned, leave Betfair well positioned to drive further Product Sports growth.
This review reports on our progress against our key strategic Sports revenue for the year was up 9%.
The Exchange was the main areas of Customers, Products and Channels, and provides an update contributor of growth and continues to generate most of our total sports on regulatory developments across our geographies.
Non-risk Sports revenue, which is predominantly commission from the Exchange, contributed 93% of the total in FY12, FY11: 92%.
Customers Revenue from risk Sports products, which is currently mostly from Ensuring that we provide the best possible experience for our customers multiples, contributed 7% FY11: 8%.
and respond to their wants and needs is obviously vital to us.
We regularly monitor customer satisfaction through surveys conducted by third party researchers and over the past 12 months we have collated feedback from Racing revenue grew by 11% over 70,000 customers.
Exchange customers consistently report higher satisfaction than customers of any competitor and this helps us to generate high levels of loyalty.
Customers score Betfair highest relative to the competition for best odds, innovative brand and fair chance of winning.
The most important driver is the superior value of the Exchange which gives customers a better chance of winning compared with traditional bookmakers.
Almost 200,000 customers made an overall profit in the year.
11% Customers told us that some aspects of our service could be improved, with site speed and reliability and quality of promotions highlighted as weaknesses.
This feedback has directly shaped our product roadmap.
We responded to the first of these concerns with our new website, which was launched towards the end of the year.
It is achieving average page download times of around three seconds compared with over 18 seconds on the old site and has delivered improved reliability.
In the coming year, Racing performed well in the year, with revenue up 11%.
The National the promotional tools available to our marketing team will be greatly Hunt season was particularly strong and included our best ever enhanced through the rollout of our next generation sports products.
All products contributed to this growth, with the These will include a separate promotions wallet that will improve the most significant contribution coming from the Exchange.
Our continued efficiency of our promotional spend.
investment in content, including the Paul Nicholls, Donald McCain and Ryan Moore columns, helped to drive activity on the Exchange and the Percentage of customers who made an overall profit in the year Dont Settle for Less campaign reminded punters of Betfairs market leading odds.
In the UK, the mild winter led to a low number of abandonments in FY12 49 meetings versus 88 in FY11, although this was offset by a planned reduction in the number of xtures.
Irish Racing up 11% and other International Racing up 16% also saw strong growth.
Racing Multiples benefited from the introduction of 23% each-way betting and Tote revenues were helped by increased levels of interest in Jackpot and Placepot bets.
Football had a good start to the year, with the Champions League final As part of our strategy of putting customers at the heart of everything between Barcelona and Manchester United becoming Betfairs biggest we do, in June 2011 we published a new Customer Commitment with ever club match.
The year culminated in the extraordinary Champions 14 promises.
These cover five key areas of our operations: protection League 2012 semi-final between Barcelona and Chelsea, with the second for customers and their data: integrity in sport: customer service: leg of the tie seeing almost 50m of bets matched.
Despite the World communication: and the reliability of our products and services.
Cup boost in the prior year, football revenue increased by 6% this year.
Where possible, each includes a measurable KPI and we provide Outside of the World Cup, revenue was up 14%, helped by a 26% customers regular, open and honest updates on our performance increase in the number of xtures covered and a higher proportion and progress against these promises: see promotions.
com of xtures offered in-play as a result of increased automation up 24 customer-commitment.
Following the launch of our Dont Settle for Less advertising campaign, the number of customers acquired in the final quarter was 45% higher than Q3.
Total active customer numbers in the year fell by 10% to 852,000 due to the acquisition of 96,000 fewer customers during the first three quarters of the year primarily as a result of the World Cup boost in FY11.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS: HOLDING OURSELVES OPENLY ACCOUNTABLE.
The Customer Commitment has enhanced the levels of transparency and dialogue between us and our customers.
It gives us nowhere to hide when we fail to deliver what weve promised them and highlights how putting the customer first is a fundamental principle of our business.
Dan Staples, Global Brand Customer Commitment In June 2011, we launched a Customer Commitment listing 14 customer promises.
These were a direct response to feedback from our customers and aim to ensure greater transparency across the following aspects of our business: customer protection: integrity: customer service: communication: product and technology.
View the Customer Commitment at: https: promotions.
com customer-commitment Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Business Review Operational Review continued We believe the Exchange remains the best sports betting product on the The technology re-architecture programme that began in FY10 was market.
Customer activity was strong in the year, with the number and completed in the year, although we will continue to invest in the platform value of bets placed up 17% and 8% respectively.
At the start of the to ensure it remains best in class.
As well as reducing on-going technology financial year, we prioritised improving the monetisation of activity on the maintenance spend, the investment over the last three years facilitates Exchange through education and pricing, and have made significant steps the development of customer facing product enhancements and is the towards achieving this goal.
The nature of the Exchange business model foundation for the roll out of our next generation sports products.
means that we want to help many of our customers to be better bettors.
We launched the first of these in April 2012 with a new integrated betslip, This will improve the re-cycling of money between customers, which combining exchange singles and risk-based multiples bets.
This makes increases revenue for Betfair.
To help achieve this objective, we have it much easier for customers to place multiple-style bets and has started provided customers with more historical data, expert opinion, editorial to drive higher volumes.
Pricing changes in July 2011 for a small number of customers have also helped to ensure that Betfair enjoys a For all its great strengths and advantages, there are markets in which the more equal share of the benets that these customers gain from the Exchange may not have sufficient liquidity to offer an optimal betting Exchange.
Most of the small number of customers affected by these experience, notably in ante post and ancillary markets.
In May 2012, we changes continued to bet with us during the year and we have seen introduced risk-based xed odds on singles markets in certain sports, so limited impact on market liquidity.
that customers can now place bets on markets where Exchange liquidity is insufficient.
Customers betting on these sports markets can now switch The Exchange continues to deliver industry-leading odds and this has easily between Exchange prices and xed odds prices.
The next stage of been the central theme of our marketing messages in our Dont Settle the roll out will introduce an increased number of in-play markets.
In line for Less campaign.
This launched at the end of the third quarter, with our product strategy, this will complete our sports product offering, focusing on horseracing, football, tennis and golf.
For the first time, eliminating a key reason for customers to bet with competitors and we have made direct comparisons between our pricing and that of our providing an opportunity to increase our share of wallet.
This will major competitors in a multi-media campaign.
The simple and effective complement the Exchange and will not be trying to compete with it on message that consistently better odds are available on Betfair has helped price once liquidity has formed.
drive customer acquisition while reminding existing customers that Betfair offers unrivalled value.
17% increase in number of bets placed on the Exchange 150,000 customers used Cash Out 17% 150,000 Product Gaming and Poker We introduced 55 new games during the year and refreshed the Cash Out, the unique tool we introduced just over a year ago to enable presentation of our Casino site.
The expansion of the Live Dealer product customers to lock in a profit or loss easily, especially in highly dynamic and the recent introduction of a Mobile Casino have been particular in-play markets 98% of cash outs are in-play, has proved highly popular.
successes, showing the benets of diversifying both our products and the Around 150,000 customers used it during the year, including a quarter channels through which our players access those products.
These customers have subsequently shown reduced roadmap includes additional mobile products and Bingo.
propensity to churn, increased betting frequency and increased average stakes.
Cash Out has a key educational role and has introduced many The benets of the changes made during the course of the year are customers to some of the wider benets of the Exchange in an easier to reected in our performance.
Like-for-like revenue, which excludes the use format, encouraging them to trade positions during a game.
Indeed, impact of suspending the product in Italy, was at in the year.
However, 40% of those who used it had previously only placed back bets and there performance improved in the final quarter following greater marketing was a 34% increase in the number of green books, or instances of focus, with an increase in actives and ARPU driving revenue up 14%, customers locking in profits, in football match odds markets.
Cash Out excluding the impact of Italy.
further differentiates Betfairs core product from competitor offerings.
In Poker, an emphasis on recreational players and improving network ecology has seen like-for-like revenue increase 6% year-on-year, excluding Italian revenues.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 18 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 SHOWCASING VALUE THROUGH INNOVATION: BRINGING OUR BETTER VALUE TO THE COMPETITIONS DOORSTEP.
Our challenge was to come up with a way of making it even more difficult for customers to ignore Betfairs better value.
We got a great thrill from having the creative freedom to develop what was originally a bit of blue sky thinking, into something so powerful and value-adding for our customers.
Csaba Suket, Bogdan Boros, Iacob Nasca, Team Betmen Betfair Everywhere Conceptualised during a 24-hour hack day by engineers from Betfairs Romanian tech centre, the Everywhere tool shows a customer the Betfair prices, and allows them to bet on Betfair while viewing the website of a competitor.
Download Betfair Everywhere at: https: promotions.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Business Review Operational Review continued CONTINUED MOBILE LEADERSHIP: IN-HOUSE DEVELOPMENT TEAM DELIVERS NEW IPAD APP.
We believe the shift in betting from online to mobile gambling is perhaps New iPad app even more significant than the shift that took place from ofine to online.
After being first to market with the iPhone and iPad apps, we shifted our For me, its great to be working at the very cutting edge of product focus to tailoring these applications to their specic devices leading to development in what is such an exciting and fast-moving industry.
a better customer experience and a more intuitive betting product.
Sumit Kumar, iPad Engineer Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 Channels Mobile In the year, over 60,000 Betfair customers used non-Betfair built or A sharp increase in mobile betting has been a key development over owned interfaces to bet on the Exchange, generating approximately the past year, driven by increased smartphone penetration, improved 25% of commission.
products and greater customer awareness.
For customers, the convenience of mobile betting is clear.
For operators, it solves a critical Regulation UK constraint on the migration of betting from ofine to online: when Recognising that a high quality racing product is necessary for our customers want to place a bet, they dont always have access to a business to ourish, we continue to support British horseracing by again computer on which they can access gaming websites.
As smartphone pledging a voluntary contribution to the Horserace Betting Levy Board.
penetration increases further and more people gain familiarity and Following a 6.7m payment towards the 50th Levy Scheme in respect of confidence with mobile betting products, mobile betting could racing revenues in the 12 months ended 31 March 2012 consisting of a accelerate the shift away from ofine channels.
It may even become 6m advance payment plus 0.7m additional payment, we made an the dominant online channel in the next few years and it is therefore advance payment of 6.5m under the 51st Scheme.
We are also fully imperative to invest in the channel.
Performance across the industry is engaged with the UK Government about potential reforms to the Levy.
polarising: companies that invested early in product development are experiencing a stronger take up of mobile betting.
Voluntary payment to the Levy Board for FY12 Betfair invested early, becoming the first betting operator to have an app approved by Apples AppStore in May 2010.
In addition to our mobile web app, we offer native apps across all major platforms iPhone, iPad, Android and Blackberry, with products in 26 AppStores globally and in 17 languages.
Our products received industry recognition during the year, earning us awards for Mobile Operator of the Year from eGaming Review and Best Gambling Company at the Mobile Entertainment awards, 6.7m amongst others.
Our in-house development capability, consisting of over 50 mobile developers and product specialists across London, San Francisco and Romania, is a key differentiator against the competition.
It allows a process of continuous product development, with three to four major releases per year per application.
This capability also enables us to develop apps tailored for specic events, such as the Euro 2012 iPhone app which incorporates tournament specic content, news and tips, team guides and xtures, together with our Exchange Separately, following a lengthy consultation process and independent markets and multiples product.
legal advice from two eminent QCs and consistent with its treatment of the customers of any other bookmaker, the Levy Board decided in June 44 million bets placed over mobile 2011 that it would not seek to impose levy on the customers of betting exchanges.
Subsequently, the British Horseracing Authority and William Hill have brought Judicial Review proceedings in relation to the Levy Boards decision, which will be heard on 4 July.
We are optimistic that the Judicial Review will not lead to a change in levy arrangements for betting exchange customers, and will support the Levy Board in defending its stance as necessary.
44m During the year, the Department for Culture, Media and Sport and HM Treasury carried out reviews of the licensing and taxation of online gambling in the UK.
The current legislation operates on a point of production basis, with licences and tax determined by the location of the operators key equipment rather than the location of the customer.
This incentivises operators to move their businesses outside the UK and Betfair moved its UK business to Gibraltar in March 2011 to achieve a level During the year, 275,000 customers placed 44 million bets using a playing eld with competitors.
Following these reviews, the Government mobile device, year-on-year increases of 64% and 122% respectively.
has announced its intention to change the basis of licensing and taxation Mobile revenue in FY12, which was mostly derived from our exchange to a point of consumption basis, so that all operators selling into the UK product as casino and multiples were added towards the end of the year, market, whether based domestically or overseas, will be required to hold increased by 97% to 22.7 million.
a Gambling Commission licence to transact with, and advertise to, British consumers and to pay betting duty on UK gross gaming revenue GGR.
Channels API HM Treasury has proposed that the 15% rate that currently applies to Betfairs application programming interface API allows customers or remote gambling is maintained and that the reform will be implemented software developers to interact with, and develop applications linked to, on 1 December 2014.
However, both the rate and the exact the Exchange directly, without the need to use our website.
This allows implementation date are subject to change.
Betfair is engaging with the customers to implement, and even automate, certain betting styles and Government and stressing the requirement for effective enforcement of strategies more effectively.
We recently launched the Betfair App Cloud, any new rules to ensure player protection and fair competition in the a new service offering software developers the opportunity to build their marketplace.
own transactional betting websites and widgets based on our Exchange platform.
The first site to go live with an App Cloud betting service was Manchester Uniteds ofcial website, manutd.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Business Review Operational Review continued In March 2012, Betfair Australia learned that it was unsuccessful The regulatory environment across Europe continues to evolve.
A number in an appeal to the High Court of Australia.
Betfair Australia initiated of countries are taking political and legislative steps to implement online proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia against Racing New South gaming regulation and Betfair invests considerable time and resources Wales RNSW in 2008 following the latters decision to implement a engaging in these processes to achieve sensible and fair regulation.
race elds fee of 1.5% of betting turnover on all New South Wales races.
The basis of the claim was that the fee is discriminatory in nature and In January 2012, we received a licence to operate all of our products in protectionist in its purpose.
Betfair was unsuccessful in the initial Denmark, where we are now paying tax at a rate of 20% of GGR.
proceedings and subsequent appeal to the Full Court of the Federal In May 2012 we received a sports betting licence in the German state of Court and had been given leave to appeal to the High Court.
Following Schleswig-Holstein, where we are also paying 20% of GGR in gaming tax.
the decision, Racing Victoria announced its intention to introduce a turnover based race eld fee of between 1.5% and 2%.
The low margin In Italy, we have a licence to operate a traditional sports betting product nature of the exchange model means that some customers betting on through our Betfair.
In January 2012, the Government notied races in these states will become unprofitable.
In reaction to this, Betfair a Ministerial Decree to the European Commission that establishes the Australia has considered its commercial response and has implemented regulation of betting exchanges.
We are hopeful this regulation will come an increase in commission on Australian racing markets, raising the base into effect in the second half of FY13, allowing us to operate our Exchange rate from 5% to 6.5%.
Betfair Australia will continue its efforts to on our Betfair.
Exchange revenues will attract educate the racing industry on the mutual benefit of charging fees gaming tax at a rate of 20% of GGR.
We temporarily withdrew our gaming on a revenue basis.
and poker products from the market in July 2011 and intend to apply for a licence to enable us to reintroduce these products in the coming months.
TVG continues to make progress, with handle growth of 7%, compared In Spain, Betfair has recently been awarded licences to operate a with an overall market decline of 2%, and revenue growth of 5% both in sportsbook and certain casino products.
Under the terms of the licences, local currency.
The business has focused on improving the efficiency of operators pay a GGR tax of 25%.
Betfair has already been paying this tax its operations and achieved profitability in the year on a standalone basis.
since online gambling legislation was introduced in May 2011.
Following the receipt of the initial licences on 6 June 2012, Betfairs Exchange was Betfair US continues to work towards the introduction of exchange made unavailable to Spanish customers until exchange licences are wagering and is in discussions with the racing industry in a number issued.
The regulation of betting exchanges is specically provided for in of states.
primary legislation and the Spanish regulator has recently reiterated his intention to regulate exchanges in a second wave of licensing.
In May LMAX 2012, the Spanish tax authority required online operators with customers Following a change of management in April 2011, LMAX has successfully in Spain to le tax returns and make a payment in respect of operations transitioned towards a sales-led distribution strategy with an increased conducted between January 2009 and May 2011 under historical laws focus on liquid foreign exchange and commodity products.
The business that previously were not applied to online operators.
Betfair has satisfied has built an experienced sales team and is establishing a wide these requirements.
The new strategy has delivered much improved results in FY12 and LMAX has outperformed the business plan developed In Greece, primary online gaming legislation has been passed by by the new team.
parliament, but industry bodies have lodged complaints with the European Commission challenging laws that create unfair barriers Volume of trades on the LMAX platform in FY12: $85bn to new market entrants and the compatibility of the law with EU state aid requirements.
Other Investments Betfair Australia is a 50:50 joint venture between Betfair and Crown Limited.
$85bn The Australian betting market continues to grow and Betfair Australia has participated in this growth with revenue up 21% in local currency, driven Customer traction has improved throughout the year, leading to strong predominantly by racing.
The business has introduced new sportsbook volume growth in FY12.
In the year LMAX matched $85bn of foreign products, including best of tote style bets and multiples to ensure it has exchange volume FY11: $9bn, delivering an annualised run-rate of a full range of betting opportunities.
It has also launched a localised c. $300bn in April 2012.
The number of trades on the platform has mobile product focused on Australian content and products.
increased from 4,000 a month to 300,000 a month over the period.
LMAX now ranks in the top 30 retail FX providers globally and has rmly established proof of concept for its exchange technology in this market.
The business is now focused on taking its key messages of speed, price and reliability to a wider audience of customers to build further volume ows and liquidity on the platform.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 22 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 CUSTOMER EDUCATION: BRAND AMBASSADORS MAKING BETFAIR BETTORS BETTER.
Our ambassadors have had a fantastic impact on our customers in terms Betfair Ambassadors of both their all-round experience with our brand and their betting prowess.
The education of customers to make them better bettors is central A betting operator wanting its customers to win more often is a novel to driving revenue growth and increasing customer loyalty.
Via blogs, concept in our industry, and one which I think everyone at Betfair is proud videos and tweets, Betfairs brand ambassadors have provided to work towards.
customers with exclusive content and advice.
Personal appearances have also been used to engage with Betfairs High Value customer base.
Andy Lulham, UK Brand Marketing Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Business Review Operational Review continued BEST PRACTICE ON INTEGRITY: PARTNERING WITH THE INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE.
When it comes to keeping sport free from corruption, the interests of betting operators, sports governing bodies and regulators are completely aligned.
Were proud to have a world class, industry leading integrity team and a track record of working proactively and transparently with relevant stakeholders across the world.
Susannah Gill, UK & Ireland Public Affairs MoU with the IOC Memoranda of Understanding enable Betfair to share information and betting patterns with sports governing bodies around the world.
Betfair pioneered this type of agreement, signing its first in 2003 with the UK Jockey Club and today has over 50 such agreements in place including one with the International Olympic Committee ahead of London 2012.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 24
