Business review Operational review Continued progress against a volatile backdrop Despite the continued challenging market conditions in 2012, our Effective distribution strong investment outperformance combined with the effective Continuing to distribute appropriate products effectively to clients distribution of our products, has seen us broaden our business in relevant marketplaces remains core to meeting our aim of growing offering as well as investing in further platform efficiencies.
Investment performance While the overall environment for savings remained below historic Achieving investment outperformance across our product range is levels and ow patterns were unfavourable in our core UK and a pivotal component of delivering on our commitment to generating European markets, 2012 saw another good year for net inows value for both clients and shareholders.
Mutual fund net inows in the year were particularly strong at 1.6bn, partially offset in the first half of In the key three year investment period, at 31 December 2012, the year by a single segregated outow of 0.6bn.
Flows in Private 33 mutual funds representing approximately 79 per cent.
of mutual Clients were similarly held back by the withdrawal of a single large funds by AUM, had delivered above median investment performance portfolio.
As a result, overall net inows were 1bn for the year, 31 December 2011: 26 mutual funds representing approximately leading to record assets under management of 26.3bn at year end.
Looking across the shorter term Net inows outows by product m period of 2012 only, in a period of continued market instability, our 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 funds continued to perform well with 28 mutual funds above median over one year, representing 56 per cent.
of mutual fund Mutual funds 1,550 528 AUM as at the year end 31 December 2011: 26 funds representing Segregated mandates 568 96 82 per cent.
Private clients 16 122 This strong result highlights how our focus on investing in quality Total 966 746 companies we believe are able to deliver growth throughout the market cycle typically results in stronger performance in challenging Mutual fund inows were into funds positioned towards the cautious market conditions.
However, this strategy may mean that end of the risk spectrum, such as Merlin Income and Strategic Bond, performance of our funds lags during strong market rallies.
and we also experienced inows into top-performing equity funds, such as UK Special Situations and the European Growth SICAV.
During the year, as part of our succession planning to maintain delivery of long term outperformance, we continued to implement Our core UK mutual fund offering continues to be distributed mainly our strategy of developing talent.
In December 2012, we announced to clients through platforms, which make up nearly 80 per cent.
Anthony Nutts plans to retire in 2014.
Both Ben Whitmore, who has of our gross sales.
During 2012 we maintained a strong market share taken on the management of the Jupiter Income Trust from January on the main UK platforms.
2013, and Philip Matthews, who will take on management of the Jupiter High Income Fund from July 2013, have worked at Jupiter for Cofunds market share of gross sales a number of years and have developed strong track records in their own right.
In February 2012, we announced the promotion of Gregory Herbert to Fund Manager to manage the European portfolio of the Jupiter Global Managed Fund and in March 2012, we appointed Rhys Petheram and Alastair Gunn as lead managers of the Jupiter 7.6% 8.7% Distribution Fund.
The increasing overlap between our xed interest, multi asset and global convertibles offerings, and the increase in assets being managed in this space to some 2bn led, in July, to us merging our 2011 2012 teams in this area into a combined Fixed Interest and Multi Asset team headed by Miles Geldard.
FundsNetwork market share of gross sales We also continued to develop our fund range during the year to support our growth plans, extending our highly successful fund of funds range with the launch of the Jupiter Merlin Conservative Portfolio, adding the Jupiter Strategic Reserve Fund as an onshore version of the Jupiter Strategic Reserve SICAV and taking our growing 6.6% 6.6% strategic bond franchise offshore through the launch of the Jupiter Dynamic Bond Fund SICAV.
2011 2012 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 17 Operational review continued In September 2012, we announced the appointment of Maarten Slendebroek to the Board of Jupiter Fund Management plc in the newly created role of Distribution and Strategy Director.
Maarten has extensive experience of running cross-border asset management operations and, in his role, will help us build further on our increasingly diversied distribution capabilities in the UK and abroad.
We have expanded our presence in Europe by opening a sales ofce in Zurich and are currently working on plans to extend our operations in Asia, following the opening of our ofce in Singapore during 2009.
We also recruited Andrew Clark to head up Private clients and charities as part of our plans to further extend our offering to private clients and charities.
This team has doubled its assets under management in the last four years and we believe that current trends in the wealth management sector will help the team grow assets and revenues.
efficient operations The efficiency of our scalable platform is demonstrated by our operating margins, which allow us to deliver attractive returns to shareholders while continuing to invest in the business to deliver growth and operational efficiencies.
As part of maintaining the efficiency of the platform we are continually looking to balance investment to support business growth while managing the current infrastructure model to drive benets from economies of scale, outsourcing or technology.
In early 2012, we closed our Bermuda ofce due to a significant reduction in the amount of administration required locally following the rationalisation of our hedge fund range.
In May 2012, we announced the outsourcing of private client administration and servicing to a third party provider.
This partnering solution, due to take place in 2013, will provide our private client managers with a single, scalable system to meet changing regulatory requirements and increasing business activity.
During the year we continued targeted investment in our IT platform by incepting a programme, lasting into 2014, to rationalise our server estate as well as upgrading our business continuity readiness.
com was updated and relaunched to support the global distribution of Jupiter products.
18 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
