Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Operational Review Dr Mike Watts Exploration-led strategy Cairn has created a balanced portfolio of assets focused on operated exploration in the frontier basins along the Atlantic Margin and in the Mediterranean, complimented by mainly non-operated interests in the UK and Norway.
We continually evaluate the asset base to ensure that we are realising value at appropriate times and retain the flexibility and agility to pursue additional new opportunities which fit our rigorous selection criteria and where we believe the opportunity exists to use our expertise to unlock value.
Group Booked 2P Reserves Atlantic Margin The Groups proven plus probable 2P reserves as at 31 December 2012 on a net working Frontier exploration interest basis have increased to 16.0 mmboe primarily due to interests in the Mariner offshore Cairn has an exploration strategy along the Atlantic Margin field 15.9 mmboe and one further onshore focused on the multiple play types established following the field 0.1 mmboe due to the acquisition of breakup of a supercontinent.
Discover more: Operational Review It is expected that further reserves additions will P3234 be made during 2013 as the Catcher and Kraken fields achieve FDP approval.
Mediterranean Frontier exploration Cairn has interests offshore Spain and has entered into an ESA with the Government of Malta.
Dr Mike Watts Deputy CEO Discover more: Operational Review 18 March 2013 P35 UK and Norway Mature basin exploration and appraisal Cairn has built a strong exploration position in the UK and Norway during 2012, through a combination of acquisitions, farm-ins and licence rounds.
Discover more: Operational Review P3637 30 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Operational Review Continued Atlantic Margin Atlantic Margin 2 Cairn has an exploration strategy along the Cairn farmed-in as Operator 50% to Foum of 1001,500m covering an area of 5,600km.
Atlantic Margin focused on the multiple play Draa permit offshore Morocco in August 2012.
Plans are under way to drill an exploration well types established following the breakup of a The permit is located 120km offshore southern to the Middle and Lower Jurassic in this permit supercontinent.
We currently have interests Morocco in water depths of 5002,000m and subject to the necessary approvals in 2013 2014.
2 in the following: covers an area of 3,300km.
Two key prospects have been identified on the permit, with Reprocessing of existing 3D data and processing 2 Morocco significant follow-on potential in the event of of a new 680km 3D seismic survey is under way.
Cairn has established a position in both the drilling success.
Commencement of the first The resulting data is scheduled to be ready for Jurassic carbonate shelf and the emerging exploration well is targeted for 2013 subject to interpretation later this year.
The Cap Juby Middle deep-water Mesozoic clastic exploration plays.
This will test the deepJurassic prospect gross mean prospective The latter play is attracting industry interest, water Cretaceous clastic plays and will target resource exceeds 70 mmbbls.
with other operators taking licences on both stratigraphically deeper objectives than have conjugate passive margins of this Atlantic Rift been previously penetrated along this margin.
As with all its operations, Cairn is working system Morocco and offshore Nova Scotia.
The gross mean prospective resource of the responsibly with the Moroccan authorities and The frontier play Lower Cretaceous deep-water two prospects in the Foum Draa blocks is other stakeholders to ensure that it understands turbidites have not yet been drilled on either side 142 mmbbls and 126 mmbbls.
the environment and communities where it of the Atlantic in these areas and the Jurassic operates and to provide assurance that it will carbonates are yet to benefit from state of the The Nautical acquisition included the Juby operate safely and efficiently.
To this end Cairn art seismic data.
Maritime permit which Cairn operates 37.5%, initiated its EIA for the planned drilling programme with joint venture partner Genel Energy plc.
This licence includes the discovered Cap Juby heavy oil accumulation and a number of carbonate prospects.
Light oil shows encountered in down-dip Cap Juby wells point to exploration upside.
The blocks are located 60km offshore the Atlantic coastline of Morocco in water depths As with all its operations, Cairn is working responsibly with the Moroccan authorities and other stakeholders to ensure that it understands the environment and communities where it operates and to provide assurance that it will operate safely and efficiently.
An established position Cairn has established a position in both the Jurassic carbonate shelf and the emerging deep-water Mesozoic clastic exploration plays offshore Morocco.
This picture shows Moroccan Lower Cretaceous Tan Tan sandstone courtesy of Dr M. Zizi.
32 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Atlantic Margin BAFFIN BAY EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2011 13 PITU : 56.875% EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2011 16 NAPARIAQ : 87.5% GREENLAND EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2008 10 SIGGUK : 87.5% EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2008 11 EQQUA : 87.5% AASIAAT EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2011 17 INGORAQ : 87.5% WEST GREENLAND NUUK EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2002 15 ATAMMIK : 87.5% EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2005 06 LADY FRANKLIN : 87.5% QAQORTOQ SOUTH GREENLAND EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2008 14 KINGITTOQ : 92% EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2008 13 SAQQAMIUT : 92% EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2009 11 SALLIIT : 92% EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2009 10 UUMMANNARSUAQ : 92% MOROCCO MOROCCO FOUM DRAA OFFSHORE 1-3: 50% JUBY MARITIME I-III: 37.5% SENEGAL SENEGAL RUFISQUE: 65% SANGOMAR: 65% SANGOMAR DEEP: 65% Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Operational Review Continued Atlantic Margin Continued Senegal During 2012, Cairn visited local communities near Pitu Cairn has agreed a farm-in 65% interest as to better understand any concerns and their hopes for operator with JV partners FAR and Petrosen, to the Sangomar, Sangomar Deep and the Rufisque future activities.
This study is also helping us to develop blocks, offshore Senegal.
The planned exploration social plans which effectively manage the potential drilling on the block is targeted, subject to necessary approvals, for late 2013 2014. impacts and concerns from the local communities.
2 The three blocks cover an area of 7,490km near shore to deep water exploration over the shelf, slope and basin floor of the Senegalese portion of Last year, the level of other operator activity objectives and has a consolidated gross un-risked the productive  in Baffin Bay considerably increased with mean prospective resource estimate of 3bn 2 Basin.
The acreage is covered by a 2,050km 3D the acquisition of both 2D and 3D seismic.
The current combined gross un-risked mean seismic survey and a number of play types, leads The industry group, GOIA Greenland Oil prospective resource estimate for the Pitu block and prospects have been identified.
The dual Industry Association, of which Cairn is as a whole is 5bn boe.
A drilling decision will objective L prospect in moderate water depth a founding member, continues to work to be taken in 2013 targeting an exploration well in which is targeted for drilling late 2013 2014 has develop and improve industry collaborations 2014, to test this prospectivity with a well on an estimated consolidated gross mean un-risked offshore Greenland.
the main structural high, subject to necessary prospective resource of 250 mmbbls.
The Pitu block is In Baffin Bay, Cairn participated in a joint shallow located 100km offshore north west Greenland Greenland borehole programme operated by Shell on in water depths ranging from 400m to 800m.
Cairn is encouraged with its acreage offshore behalf of an industry consortium which includes Greenland.
We are confident that all the elements ConocoPhillips, GdF, Nunaoil, Maersk, Tullow During 2012, Cairn visited local communities for success are in place and will ultimately support and Statoil.
The 11 completed boreholes provide near Pitu to better understand any concerns the views of the US Geological Survey USGS valuable information to help stratigraphic and their hopes for future activities.
This study that the region is home to one of the top ten correlations across the undrilled Melville Basin.
is also helping us to develop social plans which yet-to-find hydrocarbon resources in the world.
effectively manage the potential impacts and Cairn currently holds licences across 11 blocks Cairn and its joint venture partners, Nunaoil and concerns from the local communities.
offshore Greenland with a combined area of Statoil, are encouraged by the opportunity in the 2 102,000km.
The focus of its current activity in Pitu exploration block, with combined prospects Cairns other operational work in the area included the region is in the Pitu licence block.
Elsewhere within the 3D area confirming a potential conducting a number of marine activities including in the region, Cairn may seek to pre-qualify for the multi-billion boe prospective resource.
The a geochemical sea bed survey, installing a buoy second East Greenland Bid Round later this year.
mapping and evaluation of the 3D seismic has to record met-ocean data and collecting satellite identified a number of prospects.
The main PY positioning data.
complex is a composite of three stratigraphical Initial public consultations As with all our operations we are keen to ensure that we act responsibly taking a high level of care and respect towards the people and environments where we work.
During the summer of 2012 a team undertook initial public consultations with local communities located near the area offshore where we are targeting drilling in 2014, subject to necessary approvals.
34 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operational Review Continued Mediterranean Mediterranean Cairn holds licences of approximately 3,175km In December 2012, Cairn entered into an ESA in the Valencia Basin, offshore Spain and is in the with the Government of Malta.
The ESA covers early stages of its exploration programme.
The an initial two year period with geological studies, authorisation for acquiring 3D seismic is under reprocessing of existing and acquisition of new way.
Applications for further acreage offshore 2D seismic data and limited capital works, with Spain in the Gulf of Lion off the Catalonian the right to negotiate a production sharing coast have been submitted.
contract on an exclusive basis thereafter.
The agreement can be extended to a third year to acquire 3D seismic.
The blocks, which are in the Sicily channel, cover an area of 6,000km and contain a number of existing leads.
Exploration Study Agreement In December 2012, Cairn entered into an ESA with the Government of Malta.
Mediterranean FRANCE GEX: 20% ST LAURENT & DONZACQ: 22% FRANCE SPAIN ALTA MAR 2: 100% ALTA MAR 1: 100% GANDIA: 100% BENIFAY: 100% ALBANIA SPAIN ALBANIA BLOCK JONI-5: 85% MALTA Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Operational Review Continued UK and Norway North Sea and Norwegian Continental Shelf UK and Norwegian North Sea & Norwegian Continental Shelf Cairn has built a strong exploration position Cairn holds a 25% interest in the Kraken oil During the remainder of H1 2013, the following in the UK and Norway during 2012, through a field.
The Kraken oil sands are very high quality exploration and appraisal wells will be drilled: combination of acquisitions, farm-ins and licence reservoirs.
Further appraisal drilling is planned Frode Cairn 28.5%, Skarfjell Cairn 20%, rounds.
The North Sea team were involved in in Q2 to better define the field size and we Kraken Cairn 25% and Bonneville Cairn 30%.
nine of the top 15 discoveries in the Norwegian anticipate submitting a FDP for approval in North Sea over the past seven years and four H1 2013.
In Q4 2012, Cairn was successful in being of the top 11 discoveries in the UK North Sea awarded additional interests in eight licences over the past five years.
To the immediate west of Kraken, Cairn operates in the UK 27th licence round and more recently 100% the 9 1a block where the Yet to Find was awarded interests in two further licences in We now have interests in exploration and potential is estimated to be in the 50 to 250 the Norwegian North Sea in the APA Awards in appraisal blocks in the UK and Norwegian mmbbls range.
In January 2013 North Sea that include the pre-development Cairn farmed-in 30% to the P1763 Aragon oil fields Catcher greater Catcher area, Mariner Cairn 6% is one of the largest prospect in the UK North Sea.
undeveloped fields in the UK North Sea.
The FDP was approved by the Department of Energy Cairn currently holds interests in a total of 36 The Greater Catcher area Cairn 30% and Climate Change DECC in February 2013.
North Sea licences and has an active exploration comprises excellent quality injectite reservoir Consequently, Cairn has booked 16 mmbbls of and appraisal programme planned for 2013, sands.
We continue to work closely with the 2P reserves.
Cairn also has an 80% operated targeting potential net mean resources of operator Premier Oil Plc and joint venture interest in block 9 11c to the south into which 26 mmboe risked and 62 mmboe un-risked.
partner Wintershall UK North Sea Ltd the Mariner field may well extend.
on the sub-surface interpretation and front end engineering of the development concept, ahead of submitting a FDP expected H2 2013.
Cairn currently holds interests in a total of 36 North Sea licences and has an active exploration and appraisal programme planned for 2013.
Mature basin opportunities In UK and Norway, Cairn built a strong position in 2012 following two corporate acquisitions.
