22 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Operating Review BRitiSh gaS We COntinUe tO Lead the indUStRy in SMaRt MeteRing, eneRgy effiCienCy, heLp fOR the vULneRaBLe and in enSURing that OUR eneRgy pROpOSitiOn iS SiMPLE, fAir AnD trAnSPArEnt.
Phil Bentley Managing Director, British Gas new products and services energy for business customers, were making 2012 was an important efficiency reports, time-of-use tariffs the connected home and connected and itemised billing.
business a reality, adding significant year for British gas value to our business.
New technology reaches its full potential our 200th anniversary.
only with an unrelenting commitment to We have seen positive growth in our service excellence.
British Gas continues residential energy and services divisions.
in 1812, our founding to lead the industry in service whether its Although we face higher external costs our award winning online presence and wholesale commodity, transportation company brought gas smartphone applications, downloaded and environmental we have minimised more than 650,000 times, or our unique the impact through the careful lighting to Londons Model Visit and Model Call.
British Gas management of our own costs.
We are established a Customer Board in 2011 leading the industry in energy efficiency streets for the first time.
which continues to play a role in ensuring measures and advice, helping our we put customers at the heart of customers to reduce consumption.
In 2012, we are still innovating.
By putting the customer technology looks very different but our For 200 years we have brought front and centre we are growing existing principles of service excellence for our innovation to Britains energy industry.
sales channels and opening new ones.
customers are the same thats why We are delivering the profits that enable we look after millions of homes in Britain.
British Gas is evolving from a supplier investments in alternative forms of energy of electricity and gas to a provider of and new gas fields to keep homes and One new innovation is smart meters.
The complete energy products and services.
businesses warm and well lit.
We will British Gas roll-out programme is bringing From remote heating controls to continue to do so, making a successful significant benefits to customers.
Smart revolutionary energy efficiency services British Gas good news forBritain.
meters bring with them ground-breaking Adjusted operating profit m For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 1,216 1,093 Adjusted operating profit m 1,011 1,005 Residential energy supply 606 544 840 Residential services 312 269 712 Business energy supply and services 175 192 Customer numbers year end, 000 Residential energy customer accounts 15,656 15,881 Residential services product holdings 8,402 8,484 Business energy supply points 924 999 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 From continuing operations Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Business Review Operating Review and competitive pressures continue to types, do not restrict customer choice or Good performance against a have an adverse impact on our business market innovation.
British Gas has already challenging economic backdrop energy supply division, and we are implemented changes consistent with British Gas performed well in 2012, in a investing in back office systems to reduce many of the headline proposals.
We have weak economy and with continuing cost and enhance customer service.
simplified our tariffs, including a new increases to the cost of supplying energy.
standing charge and single rate structure This is having a real impact for both The health and safety of our employees as part of a commitment to phase out residential and business customers and, and customers remains a core priority.
We have also been against this backdrop, it is important that lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR was publishing price comparison information we continue to focus on improving 0.23 per 100,000 hours worked 2011: on our annual statements since March, customer service and reducing costs.
We 0.29, a 21% reduction over the past year.
allowing customers to check whether they also continue to lead the industry in smart We are also focused on maintaining high are on the most appropriate British Gas metering, energy efficiency, help for the levels of employee engagement and tariff, while we were awarded five stars vulnerable, and in ensuring that our energy recognising the commitment our people by Which?
in July for clarity of billing proposition is simple, fair and transparent.
make to delivering excellent customer and account management.
More recently, In residential energy supply, we delivered service.
This was reflected in British Gas we have built the capability to provide margins in line with our through-cycle being nominated in The Sunday Times a personalised price comparison on expectations, in a period where all Best Big Companies to Work For for each customers bill, based on their suppliers were faced with higher wholesale the fourth year in a row.
gas prices and higher non-commodity Helping our customers in costs, including the cost of upgrading the We continued to deliver high levels of difficult times UKs gas and electricity grids and meeting customer service in 2012.
In residential In February 2013, Ofgem announced that carbon reduction targets.
Weather energy, our average call answering and it was preparing for final proposals and a conditions were cooler than usual, following handling times were lower than in 2011 statutory consultation to be published unusually mild temperatures in 2011. while the volume of calls received fell and around the end of March 2013 on its Average gas consumption was therefore in October, Consumer Focus awarded us reforms to make the household energy higher compared to the prior year, partially their top 5 star customer service rating.
In market simpler, clearer and fairer for offset by efficiency measures taken by our residential services, our customer service consumers.
These follow on from initial customers, including the take-up of our metrics remained strong, despite higher findings published in March 2011 and free insulation offers and the installation call volumes as a result of the colder updated proposals announced in October of more efficient central heating systems.
The headline proposals are a welcome As a result of higher consumption and customer churn was at its lowest ever level.
step forward for the industry.
However, it is costs, the average gas and electricity bill The overall British Gas Net Promoter Score important that the proposals on product increased year on year and was made NPS increased from 26 to 30. range, restricting each supplier to four tariff up as follows: For a 2012 average annual gas and electricity bill of 1,188 the costs are: ArOUnD 15,000 Of External OUR CUStOMeRS aRe Wholesale energy 568 Delivery to customer 283 nOW USing ReMOte Environmental and social policies 112 Taxes 72 heating COntROL Internal Operating costs 104 Profit 49 During the year we launched our award winning Remote Heating Control Based on British Gas 2012 financial results and consumption and is an average of all payment types tariffs regions.
product which allows customers to monitor and control their central heating In residential services, we again delivered system via the internet or a smart phone.
double digit profit growth despite the For our smart meter customers, we also challenging economic climate, primarily launched the Smart Energy Report to driven by cost efficiencies, while continued provide visibility of how their energy is high service levels resulted in strong being used and to help them reduce customer retention.
The weak economy their consumption.
24 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Operating Review BRitiSh gaS COntinUed hOw dId wE mEASuRE uP?
BRITISh GAS PERfORmAnCE mEASuRES CAn BE fOund On PAGES 146 And 147 During 2012 we further developed our the cost of upgrading the UKs gas and Our competitive pricing position has now online platform.
We now have 3.4 million electricity grids and meeting carbon improved following the implementation of online registered customers, a 20% reduction targets increased by 50 per price rises by all major suppliers and we increase since last year, and over a third of customer in 2012.
As a result, in October have seen a return to growth in the early all energy bills are now sent electronically.
we announced a rise in domestic gas and weeks of 2013.
We have 5 million customers Seven out of ten customer own meter reads electricity prices by an average of 6%, enrolled in the Nectar loyalty programme, are submitted online and we have over one which was implemented in November.
which reduces our cost to serve and million accounts on EnergySmart which improves the customer experience by The number of residential energy helps customers monitor and manage their incentivising the use of our online platform, customer accounts on supply reduced by energy usage.
We have launched leading including the submission of meter reads 1% during the year, to 15.7 million 2011: applications for both Apple and Android and payment by directdebit.
This reflected a short term smart phones and have seen more than increase in customer churn following the The number of residential services 650,000 downloads to date.
Around a implementation of the price rise, although product holdings fell slightly to 8.4 million quarter of all website contacts are now churn of 9% over the year was at its lowest 2011: 8.5 million, with weak economic made through mobiledevices.
ever level reflecting good customer service.
conditions making sales of new contracts We continue to help our most vulnerable challenging.
Retention rates improved customers and maintain the widest however, with strong levels of customer eligibility criteria among all energy suppliers service supporting attractive customer for the Warm Home Discount, which propositions.
We decided in the second helped 400,000 customers during the year.
half of the year to strengthen our Plumbing In October, we announced Better Homes and Drains product by expanding the for Britain, a five year partnership with cover to include the water supply pipe.
As Shelter to help one million British households a result we are no longer selling a separate living in private rental property improve the water supply pipe product and our product standard of their homes.
We also lead the holdings have been restated accordingly.
Since 2008, The economic environment continued to British Gas has installed 1.7million insulation impact boiler installation volumes, which measures to homes across the UK through fell 10% to 94,000 2011: 105,000, the CERT and CESP programmes.
Under although operating profit increased as these schemes, British Gas was required we focused on reducing our cost base.
to meet a variety of carbon emissions We continue to develop new affinity reduction targets by 31 December 2012. relationships to enable us to offer energy Overall we expect to fulfil our total carbon and services products to a wider customer saving targets in the first quarter of 2013, base.
In July, we signed a broad strategic although finding customers who qualify partnership with the RAC covering a as being in the Super Priority Group number of areas, including roadside has proved challenging and this particular breakdown, joint procurement and affinity sub-target will not be fully met.
However, marketing, and the first sales were made in Ofgem has indicated that mitigating actions November.
In electric vehicles, we are the undertaken after 31 December will also be preferred supplier of home charging taken into account when assessing delivery.
solutions for five major car manufacturers.
Customer accounts stabilised The number of business energy supply despite competitive market points fell by 8% over the year, to 924,000 conditions 2011: 999,000 due to the challenging A slight fall in wholesale electricity prices economic and competitive environment at the end of 2011 allowed us to implement which is putting pressure on contract a 5% reduction in our standard domestic renewal rates and margins.
However, we electricity tariff in January, re-establishing have recently received the letter of intent to British Gas as the cheapest major award the renewal of a significant electricity supplier on average in Britain.
electricity contract from the Government However, like the rest of the industry, we Procurement Service comprising 70,000 are facing higher external costs.
Wholesale sites for a term of four years.
A new gas prices are 13% higher for winter management team is in place and we 2012 13 than for winter 2011 12, while continue to invest in our back office Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Business Review Operating Review systems to reduce costs, sharpen our and distribution costs both increased, customers are now using the product and, competitive position and enhance our while environmental costs rose by 22% to as part of a bundle, it is also driving higher customer service.
In business services 732 million 2011: 599 million.
The sales conversion of central heating systems.
we have made good progress.
We have residential energy operating margin was For our smart meter customers, we also now been selected as preferred contractor 6.6% 2011: 6.9%, in line with our throughlaunched the Smart Energy Report to on seven multi-year energy performance cycle expectations.
provide visibility of how their energy is contracts with public sector organisations being used and to help them reduce In residential services, gross revenue and have a strong pipeline for the theirconsumption.
increased slightly to 1,674 million 2011: yearahead.
1,644 million with a rise in revenue from We will continue to lead the transition to More normal weather and cost insulation jobs more than offsetting a smart connected homes and businesses, reduction programme driving decline in installations revenue.
Operating offering attractive propositions, which will profit growth profit increased by 16% to 312 million improve customer engagement and deliver After an unseasonally warm 2011, total 2011: 269 million, while the operating lower costs for the business.
British Gas gross revenue increased to margin increased to 18.6% 2011: 16.4% Innovate to drive growth and 13,857 million 2011: 12,403 million driven by cost efficiencies and an improved service excellence reflecting higher gas sales volumes.
Total contribution from our new markets activity.
Performance in 2012 in a challenging British Gas operating profit increased to In business energy supply and services, economic and competitive environment 1,093 million 2011: 1,005 million.
We gross revenue increased to 3,062 million has demonstrated that our business model continue to make good progress on our 2011: 2,829 million with operating profit remains sound.
In residential energy cost reduction programme and are on falling by 9% to 175 million 2011: 192 supply it will be increasingly important to track to deliver 300 million of cost savings million, reflecting the challenging external differentiate our offering through service across British Gas by the end of 2013. environment.
Business services revenue excellence and innovation.
Our scale and We are seeing the benefit of previous increased by 12% compared to 2011. leadership in customer service, cost investment in industry-leading IT systems efficiency and systems leave us well and have achieved savings through a Leading the transition to smart placed to continue to deliver a fair level range of initiatives, including a pay freeze connected homes and businesses of margin in this business.
In residential for employees and changes to the defined We continue to lead the industry in smart services, our focus remains on offering benefit pension schemes.
During 2012, metering and have now installed over attractive customer propositions and we closed our Southampton call centre, 800,000 smart meters in homes and delivering service excellence, while also outsourced a number of roles in British businesses.
We welcomed the working to reduce costs further during Gas Services and British Gas Business, Governments confirmation of the 2013.
We expect to deliver continued reduced IT costs through new working standards for the smart meter roll-out and profit growth in services, although not practices, offshored and transitioned to we are the only supplier currently installing at the high levels achieved in 2012.
In new data centres and agreed improved fully compliant Phase 3 meters in business energy supply, the environment commercial terms with suppliers.
Smart meters are a remains challenging.
We are investing in result, including the impact of investment key enabler for a range of technologies our back office systems to reduce costs in growth areas, operating costs were 1% and by going early on the roll-out we have and improve service and, over time, we lower in 2012 than in the prior period and, gained invaluable experience.
We are also expect business services to make a more despite the weak economy, the bad debt starting to see the benefit of smart meters material contribution.
Looking to the future, charge as a proportion of revenue fell as delivering an enhanced customer smart meters are a key enabler in the the benefits of improved systems and experience, including significantly lower trend towards the smart connected processes wererealised.
contact rates, fewer complaints and higher home.
British Gas leadership in smart retention.
We have made a number of In residential energy, gross revenue metering and technology will enable us investments in smart technology increased to 9,121 million 2011: 7,930 to capitalise on this trend, deepening companies, including AlertMe, which million reflecting higher consumption and customer relationships and differentiating enables a range of home automation retail tariffs.
After a warm 2011, cooler our energy and services offer to drive applications and Power Plus weather in 2012 saw average domestic long-term growth.
Communications, which specialises in gas consumption increase by 12%, more smart applications in complex buildings.
than offsetting underlying energy efficiency During the year we launched our award reductions.
Average electricity consumption winning Remote Heating Control product was broadly flat compared to 2011. which allows customers to monitor and Residential energy operating profit control their central heating system via the increased to 606 million 2011: 544 internet or a smart phone.
Commodity and transportation 26 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Operating Review CentRiCa eneRgy the gaS MaRket iS BeCOMing inCrEASinGLy GLOBAL.
wE AiM tO BUiLd an integRated inteRnatiOnaL BUSineSS fOCUSed On thE AtLAntiC BASin.
Mark Hanafin Managing Director, Centrica Energy exploration opportunities in Norway and is due for completion in 2013.
The 2012 saw Centrica and the UK.
This announcement was continued development in renewables welcomed by the Prime Minister as and a strong operating performance by energy make significant helping to forge a strategically important the nuclear fleet delivered significant relationship between the two nations.
value for the Group and helped to offset steps in delivering the challenging conditions currently The 1.4 billion development of the Cygnus facing our gas-fired generation fleet.
growth and value in its field, the biggest gas discovery in the Health, safety and environmental Southern North Sea for a quarter of a upstream gas and oil, issues remain a core priority and century, is now underway.
Cygnus is we have continued to focus on the expected to create around 4,000 jobs in power generation and management of our major accident the development phase, underlining the hazards.
We have been progressively importance of the energy sector for UK midstream businesses.
In other UK North Sea improving competence, reporting projects, we achieved first gas at the and accountability to ensure we In upstream gas and oil, we added Ensign and Seven Seas fields in 2012. are effectively managing process 170mmboe to our reserves.
of these were added in Norway, helping 2012 also saw important developments in to treble the size of our reserve base in offshore wind.
We received planning Despite the difficult external conditions in this important region for growth.
We also consent for 580MW at the Race Bank 2012, Centrica Energy is well positioned deepened our involvement in Norway by wind farm to be built off the Lincolnshire to deliver growth and value across its extending our Memorandum of coast close to our 270MW Lincs portfolio.
Understanding with Statoil, enabling us development.
Lincs achieved first power to continue working together on gas Adjusted operating profit m For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 1,230 Adjusted operating profit m 1,023 Gas 919 769 881 Power 311 254 771 663 Gas and power 525 Gas production mmth 2,441 2,160 Liquids production mmboe 16.3 12.5 Proven and probable reserves mmboe 525 410 Power generated TWh 21.5 26.7 From continuing operations 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 Business Review Operating Review 2012, for a total of 1.2 billion.
Overall, we during 2012, and with new fields coming A more balanced upstream added 170 million barrels of oil equivalent into production offsetting the natural business mmboe of 2P reserves in the year, as a decline from our existing fields, total Centrica Energy made significant progress result of acquisitions, upgrades of existing production volumes are expected to during 2012 on its strategy to deliver value hubs such as Rhyl and bringing new projects increase by a further 15%.
In upstream gas and oil, we such as Maria into the development pipeline.
integrated three North Sea acquisitions Adding value through gas and After taking production into account, we in 2012.
This delivered a step change for oil development, appraisal ended the year at 525mmboe of 2P reserves the business, increasing production and and exploration 2011: 410mmboe.
Our Norwegian business significantly enhancing the scale and We achieved first gas at Seven Seas and now forms a significant part of the portfolio balance of our portfolio.
In power, although Atla in the second half of the year, following following the acquisitions, accounting for the operating environment for gas-fired on from Ensign having delivered first gas in 41% of our upstream gas and oil reserves, generation remains challenging, the May.
At Ensign we have now also delivered compared to 18% at the end of 2011. business benefited from strong nuclear production from the second well, however operational performance.
due to mechanical issues the initial We have achieved a number of key production rate is below our original project milestones, bringing reserves into expectations.
First gas is expected from production and generating first power from York and Rhyl in the coming weeks, with our 270MW Lincs offshore wind project.
first gas from Kew scheduled for the fourth We have also made important steps to quarter of 2013.
Good progress continues develop future cornerstone assets, with to be made on the Statoil-operated Valemon good progress at the Valemon gas field project with the detailed design having and the sanctioning of the 1.4 billion been agreed towards the end of 2012 and Cygnus gas field, one of the largest fabrication having started early in 2013. remaining development opportunities The field is on track to produce first gas in the UK NorthSea.
In August we announced that the 1.4 billion Total Centrica Energy operating profit Cygnus project, in which we own a 48.75% increased by 20% to 1,230 million 2011: interest, had been sanctioned.
Key contracts 1,023 million with increased profit in both have now been placed and the fabrication gas and power.
This increase in profit was Total production of gas and liquids of the jacket and platform deck started in part helped by the delivery of a series of increased by 18% to 56.7mmboe 2011: ahead of schedule.
The development will cost initiatives in 2012 and the business is 48.2mmboe.
Total gas production volumes create around 4,000 jobs, mostly in the on track to deliver its contribution of cost increased by 13% to 2,441 million therms UK and bring 53mmboe of our reserves savings to Group targets.
These savings mmth 2011: 2,160mmth and total liquids into production from late 2015, providing have not compromised on our continued volumes increased by 30% to 16.3mmboe enough gas at peak production to supply focus on health, safety and environmental 2011: 12.5mmboe, reflecting the benefit of 1.5 million homes.
Centrica Energy continues to recent acquisitions.
We now have less progress its process safety programme, reliance on production from Morecambe, In Trinidad and Tobago, we made further which focuses on the integrity of operating which in 2012 contributed 23% of total progress on the Block 22 project with the systems and processes that handle production 2011: 29% primarily due to award of front end engineering design hazardous substances.
We had no increases from the rest of the portfolio.
contracts for upstream and subsea significant process safety events in 2012.
Performance from South Morecambe facilities as well as the contracting of a rig In terms of environmental practices, we are improved in the second half of the year, to drill two appraisal wells to prove up our committed to operating responsibly and after we took action to stabilise the quality resource base.
We continue to explore will continue to engage with stakeholders, to of gas delivered to the grid during the development and partnership options understand and manage the environmental fields maintenance shut-down in the for gasexport.
and social issues associated with new and summer.
Gas production volumes from Our appraisal drilling at Rhyl North towards existing investments.
Norway more than trebled to 557mmth the end of 2012 was successful, and led 2011: 164mmth while liquids volumes Increased gas and oil reserves to our 2P reserves being revised upwards increased to 8.9mmboe 2011: 4.7mmboe, andproduction by 7mmboe to 14mmboe.
In early 2013, reflecting acquisitions during the year.
Between November 2011 and February exploration drilling at Whitehaven confirmed 2012 we announced three North Sea In 2013 we will benefit from a full year of that the Rhyl reservoir extends further than acquisitions, all of which completed during production from the acquisitions made originally anticipated, potentially leading to 28 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Operating Review CentRiCa eneRgy COntinUed the Uk and norway will remain an important part of our investment and activity hOw dId wE mEASuRE uP?
CEnTRICA EnERGy PERfORmAnCE mEASuRES CAn BE fOund On PAGE 148 additional reserve upgrades.
Rhyl and original investment in the nuclear fleet.
In Higher gas and oil volumes and Whitehaven will both utilise our existing addition, plant life extensions to the Hinkley achieved prices with reduced Morecambe infrastructure.
Appraisal drilling Point B and Hunterston B nuclear power unit costs at the non-operated Maria North well, in stations were announced in December, Upstream gas and oil profitability increased which we own a 20% interest, showed extending the life of these stations by by 20% to 919 million 2011: 769 million, potential gross recoverable reserves of the seven years from 2016 to 2023.
The reflecting higher production volumes and Maria field towards the upper end of the expectation for nuclear plant life extensions higher achieved prices.
The average 70-150mmboe range published following for the AGR fleet in the UK is now for seven achieved gas sales price increased the discovery in 2010.
Accordingly we have years on average, compared to the five by 6% to 54.7 pence per therm p th revised our 2P reserves up by 10mmboe years previously assumed, and this will 2011: 51.6p th while the average achieved to 25mmboe.
Appraisal drilling at Bligh deliver additional long-term value.
oil and condensate price increased by 10% and exploration drilling at Cooper both to 62.8 per boe 2011: 57.2 boe.
On a The market environment remains challenging encountered hydrocarbons, but tight per unit of production basis, depletion, for gas-fired plant with continued low reservoirs meant that commercial flow rates depreciation and amortisation DDA costs market clean spark spreads.
We also experienced and lifting costs both decreased slightly, remained high at 97% 2011: 98%, however non-operated exploration failures in to 9.8 boe 2011: 10.1 boe and 9.7 boe generation volumes fell by 40% to 9.0TWh Trinidad and Tobago.
However in early 2011: 9.9 boe respectively, with recent 2011: 15.0TWh, with an average load 2013 drilling at the Rodriguez prospect in acquisitions incurring lower unit lifting costs.
The market Norway was successful, confirming the Overall production and overhead costs conditions led to the mothballing of our presence of gas condensate.
increased by 22% to 1,374 million 325MW Kings Lynn power plant at the 2011: 1,127 million due to the impact of In June, we extended our Memorandum beginning of the year and we have now the North Sea acquisitions, new gas and of Understanding MoU with Statoil to also withdrawn our 229MW Roosecote oil fields coming into production, the collaborate on gas-focused exploration power station from service.
Our plants at expensing of a 73 million cost relating to opportunities in Norway and the UK.
In Barry and Brigg continue to operate in the the failure of a third development well at October, the UKCS 27th Round awarded STOR market, with contracts in place until Ensign and inflationary cost increases.
Centrica six licenses covering 13 blocks the end of the first quarter of 2013 while our In addition we incurred exploration and part-blocks.
Three of the blocks will Peterborough plant has a contract which and appraisal costs of 139 million be Centrica-operated, two of which are in will commence in April 2013.
Against this 2011: 97 million, reflecting a lower the West of Shetland, a new area for the difficult market environment, we have been level of drilling success.
Early in 2013 we were awarded successful in minimising our costs and nine blocks in the latest round of licences running the plants as efficiently as possible, Continued strong performance announced by Norways Energy Ministry.
with high levels of availability enabling running from nuclear: challenging market We will be the operator of three of these at peak times.
In February 2013, we conditions for CCGTs blocks, which are close to some of our sanctioned a turbine blade upgrade at our The nuclear fleet recorded strong existing assets.
Our exploration record 1.2GW South Humber power station, which performance during the year, with our 20% over the last three years has been good, will improve the efficiency of the plant.
share of output increasing by 8% to 12.0 with a success rate of 40% and a net terawatt hours TWh 2011: 11.2TWh.
This Availability in our wind assets was 88% finding cost of 3.5 per barrel of oil reflects continued investment in the fleet, 2011: 92%, reflecting an outage at Inner equivalent boe.
with no large unplanned outages during Dowsing in the first quarter, with generated the year, underlining the quality of our volumes down 11% to 533 gigawatt hours Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Business Review Operating Review GWh 2011: 596GWh.
The load factor Formal consultation and a programme of appropriate.
Our aim is to connect sources was 32% 2011: 36%.
stakeholder engagement was undertaken of energy to our customers, building an throughout the year.
A final investment integrated international business focused Power profitability increased by 22% to decision is expected on the first project on the Atlantic basin.
Nuclear in 2016, subject to returns being The UK and Norway will remain an profitability increased, benefiting from a suitablyattractive.
important part of our investment and higher achieved average price of 49.6 In February 2013 we announced that activity, as we look to maintain an MWh 2011: 48.5 MWh, reflecting some we would not be exercising our option to appropriate energy hedge.
We have a benefit from forward hedging, as well as participate in UK nuclear new build, taking number of large scale projects ongoing, the strong operational performance.
Wind into account the lengthening time frame including Cygnus and Valemon, and we profitability also increased, with the sale of for a return on capital invested in a project retain a number of attractive potential 50% of our Round 3 wind farm interest to of this scale.
The decision follows detailed development opportunities, particularly Dong, in line with our established business appraisal of the project, with prein Norway, including at Butch where model to partner on offshore wind, resulting development expenditure approaching appraisal drilling is planned in late 2013. in a net profit of 32 million after taking into the agreed 1 billion cap: accordingly Decisions are targeted during 2013 on account a charge relating to the refusal of Centricas share of project costs have further infill drilling opportunities in the consent at our Docking Shoal project.
Our been written off, with the Group recording East Irish Sea and North Sea.
However, CCGT fleet made a small loss in 2012, the a total impairment of 231 million.
with UK North Sea developments last year of free carbon allowances, reflecting the weak market conditions.
becoming smaller in scale and relatively We have also decided not to proceed with more expensive, we will increasingly look Investing for value in power planning applications to develop dedicated to diversify our production portfolio, linked In offshore wind, our 270MW Lincs project biomass power stations at Roosecote to our core markets.
This is likely to include has now generated first power and is and Brigg, with recent clarification on the further investment in North America, expected to be fully operational in the regulatory framework indicating a preference possibly in shale gas, and there is also the second half of 2013.
We have invested for co-firing and coal conversion.
As the potential for gas exports later in the decade.
over 3 million in a new operations base market becomes increasingly dependent We will invest where we see value across at Grimsby docks to serve Lincs and other on fixed price support mechanisms, we our international portfolio, delivering annual potential Centrica Energy wind farm will leverage our competencies, investing production in the range 75mmboe to developments, a substantial investment only where we see value.
In midstream, we have in the local area.
Integrate our natural gas business, significant capabilities and presence in linked to our core markets European and North American gas We continue to progress towards a final The gas market is becoming increasingly markets where we have important strategic investment decision on the Race Bank global.
We have made progress in participation in pipeline capacity, project, which is consented for 580MW.
diversifying our sources of gas, including regasification capacity and gas storage.
We are willing to commit 200 million for agreements to import pipeline gas from We will also look to develop our assetthe project, and are in discussion with Norway and LNG from Qatar through our based midstream trading and optimisation a financial partner and the Government regasification capacity at the Isle of Grain.
business over time, with an emerging concerning the economic framework.
We are looking to secure gas increasingly presence in LNG.
However we will invest During 2012 we also established a joint from a wider range of sources, expanding only where we see value, with rewards venture with Dong Energy to co-develop the Round 3 Irish Sea wind farm zone.
the scope of our activities where commensurate with the scale of investment and associated risks.
30 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Operating Review CentRiCa StORage CentRiCa StORage pLayS a key ROLe Within the gROUpS integRated eneRgy BUSineSS and MakeS a vitaL COntRiBUtiOn tO the SeCURity Of EnErGy SUPPLiES fOr thE UK.
Grant Dawson Chairman, Centrica Storage We do, however, remain convinced that At Centrica Storage Do Everything i am pleased to report the UK will require more gas storage Safely is one of our core priorities and capacity in the future and therefore have I am encouraged that 2012 has been that Centrica Storage continued to engage with various another strong year in terms of our stakeholders, including the UK safety record.
I am particularly pleased achieved higher profits Government, on ways to support the that in September we passed three investment needed.
The Governments years without a single lost time incident from our Rough gas Energy Bill and Gas Generation Strategy right across the business.
This was storage facility in 2012 have confirmed a clear and continuing role particularly challenging in 2012 as for gas in the UKs medium to long-term significant work was undertaken at than in 2011. energy mix and we believe, reinforces the our Easington Terminal, to build the need for increased levels of seasonal gas reception and processing facilities for Early in 2012 we benefited from the storage in the UK.
We are particularly gas coming from Centrica Energys York widening spreads between summer and encouraged by the commitment of the offshore field.
winter gas prices which are a key driver Department of Energy & Climate Change The first cold spell of the 2012 winter, in of storage revenue.
However, at this level DECC to publish a review of the need for early December, saw our Rough storage the prices still remain below that needed storage support in the first half of2013.
facility once again withdrawing at full to invest in new storage and thats In the meantime we have continued to rates, demonstrating our key role within why our Baird and Caythorpe projects focus on strengthening the existing the Centrica Groups integrated energy have remained under review with no business by concentrating on our business and also the vital contribution major physical works undertaken underlying business performance, we make to the security of energy during the year.
processes and our overall efficiency.
Adjusted operating profit m For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 240 Average SBU price pence 31.0 30.0 195 Gross revenue m 202 184 168 169 Adjusted operating profit m 89 75 From continuing operations 89 75 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Business Review Operating Review hOw dId wE mEASuRE uP?
CEnTRICA STORAGE PERfORmAnCE mEASuRES CAn BE fOund On PAGE 148 Strong performance in a Improved operating profit challenging market environment Gross revenue increased by 10% in 2012 Centrica Storage performed well in 2012, to 202 million 2011: 184 million.
This with strong commercial performance reflects the higher summer winter price securing the benefits of higher summer differentials and benefits from the high winter price differentials seen in the first NRV carried into 2012.
SBU revenue was half of the 2012 13 storage year.
The Rough 4% higher in 2012 with the calendar year asset achieved reliability of 92% in the year SBU price increasing to 31.0 pence 2011: 96%, with performance in the first 2011: 30.0 pence.
Operating profit half similar to that experienced in the increased by 19% to 89 million 2011: 75 first half of 2011 but with the second half million benefiting from higher revenue and impacted by a small number of production strong cost control, partially offset by outages.
These outages had limited inflationary pressures and additional commercial impact and across the year depreciation resulting from previous asset availability was good when required investment in Rough.
From 2013 the to meet customer demand.
business will benefit from additional revenue streams associated with gas The high level of stock carry-over into 2012 heaLth and Safety processing and condensate sales at the combined with modest withdrawal in the newly constructed York processing plant.
first quarter of the year meant that the Net ReMainS One Of OUR Reservoir Volume NRV was at relatively Challenging economics for new COrE PriOritiES: thiS high levels again going into the 2012 projects injection season.
A strong injection season We retain the option to invest in our Baird ReLentLeSS fOCUS over the summer was followed by the final and Caythorpe gas storage projects.
quarter of 2012 experiencing withdrawals However, the continuing relatively low haS enaBLed the more in line with seasonal normal levels.
levels of summer winter price differentials As a result the NRV level carried into 2013 and reduced price volatility, combined with BUSineSS tO was above the five year average level but an uncertain longer term outlook, mean below the level at the start of 2012. that market conditions remain challenging COntinUe itS StROng for these opportunities.
With the country Health and safety remains one of our core ReCORd thROUgh becoming increasingly dependent on priorities: this relentless focus has enabled imported gas we believe that more the business to continue its strong record 2012, with nO LOSt seasonal storage is required in the UK.
through 2012, with no lost time incidents However we will only invest in new projects recorded for more than three years, tiMe inCidentS if the returns are appropriate for the level of corresponding to over 5 million man hours risk undertaken.
We may require a support ReCORded fOR MORe of work without an incident.
mechanism to underpin the investment Forward seasonal spreads have and welcomed the announcement by thAn thrEE yEArS.
narrowed since the first quarter DECC in December that it is planning to The business saw higher summer winter carry out further investigation into possible price differentials in the final quarter of intervention mechanisms to encourage 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 new storage investment.
We look forward compared to the first quarter of 2011, to the outcome of this review, with initial which resulted in an achieved 2012 13 findings expected in spring of 2013. storage year Standard Bundled Unit SBU price of 33.9 pence 2011 12: 25.2 pence.
However, price differentials subsequently narrowed, reflecting colder than normal weather in the summer months and an expectation of LNG availability for the winter.
Forward spreads remain relatively narrow for the 2013 14 storage year, with price volatility remaining at subdued levels.
32 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Operating Review diReCt eneRgy We have BUiLt a gOOd pLatfORM fOR gROWth in nORth aMeRiCa, With StROng CapaBiLitieS in eneRgy SOURCing and SUppLy, RiSk ManageMent, eneRgy SeRviCeS AnD UPStrEAM GAS AnD POwEr.
Chris Weston Managing Director, Direct Energy efficiencies from increased scale across leading prepaid product and flexible Our focus for the year our operations, while remaining solidly time-of-use offerings enabled by smart committed to deepening customer technology and we plan to expand this ahead is to make relationships by delivering innovative product range.
progress against our By operating across the entire energy Strong organic growth and acquisitions value chain, from sourcing to supply, strategic priorities as have positioned Direct Energy as one we create stability and value for our of North Americas largest energy and customers.
As North Americas we position ourselves energy-related services providers.
We will importance grows with an increasingly continue to focus investment in markets global gas market, we will continue to to meet the energy and that provide an environment conducive pursue value-creating opportunities that to retail competition and the consumer enhance our existing portfolio of natural services needs of benefits that come from having a choice gas production, power generation and customers now and of providers particularly in the competitive wholesale and retail energy services.
retail markets in Texas and in the US Our values of being simple, friendly and in the future.
direct remain at the heart of our approach We see continued progress and opportunity to customers as we strive to offer products We continue to build an integrated North for innovation and differentiation through and services that make a difference in American business with leading smart meter technologies, demand peopleslives.
positions in competitive markets and are response and energy efficiency related investing for growth across the four lines products and services.
We will also maintain our responding favourably to our industryfocus on cost reduction and seek Adjusted operating profit m For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 331 312 Adjusted operating profit m 331 312 Residential energy and services accounts 234 year end, 000 5,856 5,647 215 187 Business energy electricity volumes TWh 51.4 46.4 153 Total net proven and probable reserves mmboe 108 109 From continuing operations 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Business Review Operating Review reduced by 45% to 0.11 per 100,000 hours In the US North East, our business is Further profit growth in a low gas worked 2011: 0.20 and we had no materially larger following the integration priceenvironment significant process safety events in 2012. of Gateway and Vectren Source, both Direct Energy delivered another strong acquired in 2011, and the acquisition of performance in 2012, in a low gas price Benefiting from enhanced scale a further 207,000 residential and 38,000 environment.
Gross revenue decreased by in residential energy supply small business accounts from New York 2% to 6,015 million 2011: 6,117 million Direct Energy Residential made good based energy retailers Energetix and but operating profit increased by 6% to progress during the year, with organic NYSEG Solutions from Iberdrola USA, 331 million 2011: 312 million.
There was customer growth in the US North East, completed in August.
The business also no material impact resulting from currency the successful integration of recent experienced organic growth in 2012 due movements during the year.
acquisitions and strong increased customer to strong sales performance, despite the The business has benefited from organic satisfaction levels across the business.
expected roll-off of low margin aggregation customer growth in the US North East Overall customer accounts increased to customers acquired as part of the Vectren and the small business customer segment, 3.5 million 2011: 3.4 million despite Source acquisition.
We now have 1.4million and from the successful integration of incurring further customer losses as a customers in the region, up from 1.1million recent acquisitions.
We also continue to result of the regulatory environment in at the end of2011.
drive operational efficiencies throughout Ontario.
Gross revenue decreased by 2% the business, and the move of our North to 2,357 million 2011: 2,416 million, Our Texas residential business is also American headquarters to Houston, while operating profit was broadly flat at benefiting from increased scale, following combined with overall headcount reductions, 156 million 2011: 161 million reflecting the First Choice Power acquisition in 2011. has delivered significant benefits.
We will the decline in the Ontario business, offset Our prepaid Power to Go product continue to drive efficiencies, with further by the positive impacts of customer growth continues to attract customers, as well as rationalisation of IT resources due to be and acquisitions in the US.
We are also being viewed positively by regulators, who undertaken in 2013.
The health and safety seeing the benefits from operational welcome the expansion of choice for all of our employees and customers continues efficiencies and billing system rationalisation, customer groups.
In October, we launched to be one of our core priorities.
The LTIFR with increased scale in the US NorthEast.
a 100% renewable tariff, providing environmentally conscious customers with wind power from Texas.
We delivered good sales performance in the US during the year, underpinned by a We expeCt OUR continued focus on channel efficiency, dOWnStReaM while our consolidated billing platform has helped reduce costs and bad debt.
Churn BUSineSS tO BeCOMe reduction continues to remain a focus both in Texas and the US NorthEast.
a MORe MateRiaL We no longer view our residential energy paRt Of the gROUp supply business in Ontario as core, following the implementation of the Energy OveR the next thRee Consumer Protection Act ECPA, which makes it difficult to sell to new customers tO fivE yEArS.
We continue to actively manage the decline of our customer base and have more than halved operating costs since 2010 through aggressive cost management.
In total we lost 95,000 customer accounts in Ontario during 2012 and now have just over 200,000 customers in the region, around half the amount we had at the end of 2010.
In 2012, Ontario We will continue to look for contributed less than 20% of our residential opportunities to grow our business energy operating profit and this is expected across North America by focusing on to fall to around 5% in 2013.
In Alberta, growing organically and through our profitability rose, with increases in regulated successful bolt-on acquisition strategy, rates leading to higher churn levels in the delivering scale and synergies.
34 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Operating Review diReCt eneRgy COntinUed Our values of being simple, friendly and direct remain at the heart of our approach hOw dId wE mEASuRE uP?
dIRECT EnERGy PERfORmAnCE mEASuRES CAn BE fOund On PAGE 149 low margin regulated business and of America HWA, completed in March, growth in the higher margin competitive provides the necessary licences to offer customer base.
protection plan products across the United States.
The number of contract Focus on small businesses relationships increased by 5% during 2012, leading to volume growth in mainly reflecting the HWA acquisition.
business energy supply Direct Energy Business again delivered Our Canadian business was impacted strong growth in the year, in a highly by warmer than normal weather and competitive market.
Electricity volumes industrial action by a number of our rose 11% to 51.4TWh 2011: 46.4TWh, unionised technicians in the first half of while gas volumes increased by 11% to the year.
The labour issues have now been resolved, resulting in a significant 793mmth 2011: 714mmth.
Higher volumes improvement to our cost base and more in the small commercial business sector flexible working arrangements, improving are driving much of the growth, and profit our service tocustomers.
in this sector nearly doubled in 2012, reflecting strong sales and scale benefits Continued weak economic conditions, resulting from recent acquisitions.
The low consumer confidence and a slow larger commercial segment is increasingly housing market have impacted underlying competitive, however our retention rates growth in the US services business, remain high in this sector.
leading to less lead generation and Gross revenue in business energy supply reduced demand for home services decreased by 2% to 2,690 million 2011: products.
However we continue to focus 2,748 million, with the impact of lower on delivering high levels of customer commodity prices more than offsetting satisfaction and our overall Net Promoter volume growth.
Operating profit increased Score increased to 39 2011: 28. to 129 million 2011: 110 million while Gross revenue increased by 2% to 532 operating margin increased to 4.8% 2011: million 2011: 520 million and operating 4.0%, reflecting the positive impact of profit increased to 33 million 2011: 28 operational efficiencies and a higher million, with operational efficiencies and proportion of small business customers.
cost control driving much of this growth.
Strengthening the services Solid upstream and wholesale platform performance in a low price Direct Energy Services is performing well, environment gaining market share in a challenging Direct Energy Upstream continues to economic environment, with many of our face a low wholesale price environment, competitors experiencing losses or credit although the Henry Hub natural gas price downgrades.
Our nationwide on-demand recovered slightly during the second half franchise has provided scale advantages, of the year from the record low levels seen while the acquisition of Home Warranty Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Business Review Operating Review in the first half.
Alberta gas production in both energy and services.
Upstream, volumes fell by 3% to 549mmth 2011: natural gas prices continue to be the heaLth and 567mmth, with the achieved gas price constrained by the impact of shale but falling to C$3.8 MCF 2011: C$4.6 MCF.
production expansion opportunities are Safety Of OUR The price of liquids remains relatively available and we will pursue them if value high however, and the acquisition of can be created.
eMpLOyeeS and the Carrot Creek assets, completed We continue to look for opportunities to in January, meant that oil and liquids CUStOMeRS grow our business across North America.
production volumes nearly doubled to Downstream, we will continue to focus on COntinUeS tO 1.1mmboe 2011: 0.7mmboe.
We added growing organically, through churn 10mmboe of reserves in North America reduction and differentiation.
We will also Be One Of OUR over the year meaning that after taking continue with our successful bolt-on account of production, 2P reserves acquisition strategy, delivering scale and CORe pRiORitieS remained broadly flat at 108mmboe synergies, and will consider larger 2011: 109mmboe.
Over the next three to five years we are targeting a Texas power generation volumes increased doubling in profitability of our North America by 21% to 6,336GWh 2011: 5,247GWh, downstream business through organic with good asset availability and optimisation performance.
Texas experienced more growth and acquisition, with Direct Energy normal weather conditions during the downstream becoming a more material summer months, meaning that spikes part of the Group.
We will also look for in power prices were less extreme than opportunities upstream, with the potential in the exceptional conditions in 2011. for exports over time.
In each case, we will only invest where we see value and a good Overall, upstream and wholesale gross fit with our Group-wide capabilities.
revenue was 436 million 2011: 433 million while operating profit was flat at 13 million 2011: 13 million.
Well placed to further grow and develop our North American business We have built a good platform for growth in North America, with strong capabilities in energy sourcing and supply, risk management, energy services and upstream gas and power.
In 2013, we should continue to benefit from recent residential acquisitions, with integration now mostly complete, while we have created a more efficient operating base
