Operating review Mike Norris Chief Executive Officer 2012 strategic objectives Maximising the Accelerating the return on working growth of our capital and freeing Contractual working capital where Services business not optimally used Progress against 2012 In 2012, our Group contract base Adjusted operating cash flow of strategic objectives grew by 11.0 per cent in constant 85 million in 2012 was substantially currency.
This rate of growth reflects ahead of adjusted profit before tax of the continuing fragmentation of the IT 71.3 million, which was again a pleasing Services market, within which large performance.
During the year, working customers are selectively outsourcing capital increased on a temporary basis their IT Managed Services.
The rate of due to the integration of Top Info and the growth in this area was particularly warehouse relocation in France, and a strong in the UK and France.
general increase in accrued revenue in relation to new contract take-ons, However, given our well-documented involving transition and transformation.
issues experienced in the on-boarding However, by the year-end, the integration process of new Services contracts in of Top Info and warehouse relocation Germany, we significantly re-focused were complete, with related working our efforts away from winning new capital returning to a lower level and Contractual Services business in Germany accrued income reduced to a level to dealing with the issues that had arisen, broadly in line with the overall increase and endeavouring to deliver on existing in Services revenue.
There was an contractual commitments.
Notwithstanding overallworking capital outflow of circa these issues, Contractual Services remain a 12 million, primarily due to lower major growth area for the Computacenter volumes at the year-end with a major Group due to the increased visibility supplier which continues to provide an and predictability of the revenues improvement in credit terms.
Key performance indicators Increase contract base in Increase adjusted operating constant currency m cash flow m 11.0% -11.5% Please see pages 24 and 25 09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 for principal risks.
Adjusted profit before tax and EPS is stated prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles andexceptional items.
Adjusted operating profitand adjusted gross profit is also stated after charging finance costs on CSF.
2 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 478 523 554 615 138 108 96 85 Reducing cost Growing our profit Ensuring the through increased margin through successful efficiency and increased Services implementation industrialisation and high-end of the Group-wide of our Services Supply Chain sales ERP system operations We continue to invest in and derive value In the UK, total revenue for the year The Group-wide ERP system is an from the Shared Services Factory increased by 8.5 per cent, whilst extensive IT implementation as well which helps to standardise customer adjusted gross profit increased by 10 per as a significant business process change.
engagement, service offerings and cent.
Thishigher rate of adjusted gross The system covers virtually all of our also reduce the cost of service delivery.
profit in the UK is due to a 15.3 per cent operating activities with entirely new This includes investment in our offshore growth in Services revenue, with strong resource scheduling, call logging and service delivery capability, to take execution of our new contract take-ons maintenance systems that are at the advantage of the lower costs available.
inthe UK resulting in an improvement in heart of our business.
The German These initiatives will enable operational the overall gross margin achieved in the business went live at the end of January and cost benefits over the medium Services business.
This was partly offset 2011 and the UK business went live and long term and we expect to deliver by an adverse mix in the UK Supply Chain at the end of August 2011.
France is improved Services gross margins over business with a higher proportion of scheduled to go live in Q2 2013.
In the UK, considerable value has workplace products being sold as part imposing a new Group-wide operating been added through our Services ofthe Windows 7 roll-out programme.
model based on the use of common industrialisation process, which has processes to extract efficiencies and Conversely, in constant currency, resulted in improved margins and deliver our Services consistently to Germany adjusted gross profit reduced increased Services revenue per Service our increasingly global customers.
by 6.7 per cent, driven by start-up costs head.
Our Services contract issues in We would not have been able to achieve and resultant operational losses in Germany have necessitated investment this without a common ERP platform excess of 12 million relating to a in additional staff to meet customer across the Group.
Operating service level commitments and expenses increased by 3.6 per cent accordingly, have negatively impacted resulting in a 55 per cent decrease in on Services revenue per Service head adjusted operating profit in Germany.
Increase revenue per Service head Increase EBIT as a percentage ERP 000 head of net revenue delivery vs implementation plan -5.4% -8.8% H2 H1 09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 2011 2012 2013 Adjusted operating cash flow is defined in note30of the notes of the consolidated financial statements.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 85 88 93 88 6.0 6.6 6.9 6.3 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Operating review continued Group overview Group revenue by region m Group revenue by business type 4.
Overall Group revenue in 2012 increased by 2.2 per cent to 2.91 billion 2011: 2.85 billion and in constant currency, Group revenue increased by 6.5 per cent.
It was particularly pleasing that the revenue growth was largely driven by our Services business.
It includes the impact of our 2011 acquisitions, which was minimal at a Group level.
At a Group level and in absolute terms, our Supply Chain business revenue declined marginally by 0.5 per cent, but in constant currency, it grew by 3.9 per cent to 2.01 billion.
The gross margin percentage in our Supply Chain business reduced, mainly due to a higher mix of lower margin desktop and laptop products in 2012, driven by the Windows 7 roll-out programme.
Given the impending deadline to complete the refresh of Windows 7 before the official support termination date for Windows XP in April 2014, it is likely that the impact from this mix will continue part-way through 2013, but should then revert to a more usual mix.
Group Services revenue increased by 8.6 per cent on an as reported basis and by a strong 12.7 per cent in constant currency.
This significant growth reflects our continued drive to increase the proportion of our total Group revenue that is generated from our Contractual Services offerings, thereby improving the visibility and predictability of that revenue.
This year, above all others, has confirmed the fundamental importance of successful contract take-on and execution in generating significant Services margin.
The encouraging increase of approximately 6.3 per cent in gross profit, delivered by Group Services in constant currency, was largely reflective of our ability to provide very high levels of Services execution throughout the year, in the UK.
We are extremely pleased with the performance and achievements of the UK Services business, which are significant and have ultimately proved to be the cornerstone of the Groups achievements in 2012.
While we believe it is unrealistic to anticipate the same extent of Contractual Services growth in the UK in 2013, we are fully aware of the need to maintain these levels of execution and we are confident that theUK Services margin generated in 2012 is sustainable.
Adjusted profit before tax and EPS is stated prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
Adjusted operating profit isalsostated after charging finance costs on CSF.
4 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Groups adjusted profit before tax fell by 4.0 percent Our balance sheet position had strengthened significantly by the year-end.
Net cash prior to customer specific financing to71.3 million 2011: 74.2 million.
The impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on the Groups profit levels was CSF at the end of 2012 was 147.3 million 2011: net cash significant and, in constant currency, the Groups adjusted of 136.8million.
Including CSF, net funds were 128.6 million operating profit remained broadly flat on 2011 levels.
It should again be noted that these figures The Groups adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS are flattered by approximately 34.0 million 2011: 45.0million fell by 3.5per cent to 36.1 pence 2011: 37.4 pence.
While from extended credit facility terms provided by one of our major we are disappointed that profitability levels have not increased suppliers.
These terms, which have been in place for over three in 2012, compound EPS growth over the past five years is years, could be withdrawn at short notice.
still running at 14.3 per cent.
The cash generative nature of Computacenters business has The Group incurred 3.9 million in exceptional items relating resulted in a net cash balance in excess of our current needs.
toone off costs of relocations for RDC and in France, as well While we intend to continue to maintain a robust and prudent as cost reduction initiatives during the final quarter of 2012 balance sheet, the Board believes that it is now appropriate to inGermany.
Therefore, on a statutory basis, taking account consider a return of capital to shareholders, in addition to the ofthese exceptional items and amortisation of acquired normal dividend.
As soon as practicable in 2013, the Board intangibles, Group profit before tax decreased by 10.1 per cent intends to return up to 75 million to shareholders and we are to 64.8 million 2011: 72.1 million and diluted EPS decreased exploring options as to the best mechanism to effect this by 17.6 per cent to 32.4 pence 2011: 39.3 pence.
Group profitability levels in 2012 were materially affected by We are particularly pleased with our year-end cash position, the difficulties we experienced within our German business.
given that further cash growth was achieved despite some These have been well-documented and were, to a significant significant capital investments during the year to further drive degree, an illustration of what happens when our contractual business growth.
These investments included the delivery of terms and conditions, take-on and execution processes do efficiencies in our French logistics capability, by consolidating all not adhere to the standards we expect across the Group.
of the previous facilities in Paris into a single function at Gonesse and investment into our French Head Office relocation.
In addition, An unusually high rate of contract wins towards the end of 2011 inGermany, stretched contract take-on resources to the we have increased our investment in the upcoming French ERP migration, which we expect will occur in May 2013.
Our strategic point where processes failed and exposed weaknesses within our internal governance procedures.
As a result, significant shift towards the provision of Services and Solutions has incremental cost was incurred by us in order to endeavour to continued apace and we continue to invest materially in further achieve appropriate customer satisfaction levels.
While we are developing our capabilities in this area.
In particular, we are very disappointed that this has occurred, we are confident that continuing to invest in additional Service Desk capacity the actions we have taken in Germany in response to these andindustry-leading tools to assist in automating remote issues, which have included a thorough review and alteration .
of our governance processes, were correct to ensure both the The Board has decided to propose a final dividend of 10.5 pence, long-term interests of the Groups customers and shareholders bringing the total dividend paid for 2012 to 15.5 pence, representing and to start releasing the earnings potential of these contracts a 3.3 per cent increase on the 2011 total dividend paid of 15.0 over the remainder of their lifetime.
We are pleased to report pence.
This regular dividend is consistent with our stated policy of that the early signs of improved Services performance in maintaining dividend cover within our target range of 2 to 2.5 times.
Germany were noted in the last quarter of the year and, whilst Subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General there remains much to be done, we anticipate further progress Meeting on 17 May 2013, the proposed dividend will be paid on in the months ahead.
The dividend record date is set on 17 May 2013 and the dividend will be marked ex-dividend on 15 May 2013.
We made one small acquisition towards the very end of the year with the addition of a Belgian company, NEWIS SA, andits subsidiary, Informatic Services IS SA, to the Group.
Wefocused on consolidating those acquisitions that had been made in 2011, with Top Info in France now fully integrated into theFrench business, allowing us to maximise the opportunity ofcross-selling our Services offerings to an expanded customer We see our larger base.
We continue to bepleased with the integration of, and customers looking ongoing contribution from, our Swiss business, originally to us to deliver namedDamax, now Computacenter AG.
our Services on While acquisitions made by the Group during the past two an expanding, and years have helped us increase the scale of our offerings, we continue to focus on ensuring that we are well positioned to even global, scale.
meet the demands of our customers and adjust our offerings toaccommodate any changing demand trends within the IT market.
For some time now, we have seen our larger customers outsourcing their IT infrastructure needs selectively, across the different IT disciplines and this continuing trend has helped to drive Computacenters Contractual Services revenue growth.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Award-winning Managed Services AstraZenecas brief to Computacenter Access to Skilled Resources Computacenter provides customers with access toskilled resources to complement their own staffand deal with peaks inresource demand.
AstraZeneca Back in April 2011, when AstraZeneca took the decision to look for new IT partners, many people doubted that the ambitious timeframes for a transition on such a large scale could really be achieved.
I am delighted to lead a team of AstraZeneca and supplier employees to deliver a really successful programme, delivering significant improvement for our customers.
To have this recognised by the IT industry, via an award, is a real credit to everyone involved.
Alex Small, Programme Director, AstraZeneca Continuous Improvement Innovation Computacenter works with customers to transform their IT, delivering competitive advantage, revenue growthand excellent customer service.
Growth Business Change Computacenter seeks to support customers with growth and business change challenges, by providing skills and technology to assist with change programmes.
6 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Operating review continued We benefit from this segmentation of the market which allows us Our pipeline for new business in the UK is significant, bringing growth prospects for 2014 and beyond, whilst the pipeline is to compete, both in terms of size and offerings, in those selected areas where we confidently believe we have competitive beginning to grow in France and again in Germany.
We therefore advantage and can deliver value for our customers.
We see our larger customers looking to us to deliver our Services on an expanding, and even global, scale.
In order to United Kingdom respond, we have made noteworthy additions to our Group Revenue m Service Desk capacity, expanding our existing facilities in Berlin Adjusted and Barcelona and investing into new facilities in Kuala Lumpur, operating profit Malaysia and Dallas, Texas.
The last of these is a direct result of a material increase in the Services we are providing in the US, 52.2m as evidenced by a circa 80 per cent increase in volume through our US business compared to 2011.
Contract base It is important to note that a majority of our Contractual Services wins in recent times have been second, or greater, generation 09 10 11 12 291.0m outsourcing contracts.
This proves that the growth of Computacenters Contractual Services revenue is neither Revenue by business type necessarily related to, nor capped at, that level seen by the market generally.
Workplace 22% In order to drive further Managed Services growth, we continue 1.
Datacenter & to focus on end-user support to our largest customers and Networking 24% invest in tools and processes that make our Services offerings 3.
Software 11% both more productive and automated.
This will allow us to grow 4.
Third Party Services 7% the level of our Services business across the Group, without aprorata increase in headcount, meaning that we are 5.
Professional Services 9% 2. able to compete more effectively in the market and pass on 6.
Contractual Services 27% 4. greater cost savings and efficiencies to our customers, whilst 3. retaining margin.
During 2012, we further developed the use of our ERP system, particularly in the UK, enabling us to adopt a new Group-wide operating model, implemented in the UK and Germany since the 2012 proved to be a very strong year for the UK business.
Given that the system is now fully operational in the Totalrevenue for the year increased by 8.5 per cent to largest components of our overall business, we are confident that 1,195.6 million 2011: 1,102.2 million and adjusted the migration in France, due in May 2013, will be smooth and that operating profit was up by 40.2 per cent to 52.2 million we will see further enhancements to the drive to industrialise our 2011: 37.3 million.
This significant growth has been business take-on processes across the whole Group.
delivered despite the broadly flat performance of the UK Outlook economy during the period and the negative impact that The Board expects 2013 to be a year of progress for this has had on IT spend, most notably within the Public Computacenter.
It is difficult, at this early stage in the year, andInvestment Banking sectors.
Last years performance in the UK presents uswith a challenging comparison, particularly Our performance in 2012 was principally driven by the given the successful number of business take-ons, which increased success of our Services business, which saw will not be repeated in 2013.
The solid UK Services margin revenue grow by 15.3 per cent to 431.4 million 2011: position is likely to continue, albeit it will grow at a more 374.1 million and Services gross profit grow by around modest pace.
While the Group financial outcome for 2013 will one third.
We are extremely pleased that, for the first time in be dependent on the in-year performance of Germany and the Computacenter UKs history, over 50 per cent of total gross speed at which we recover from our problem contracts which profit generated was delivered by our Services business.
is unpredictable, we are confident that these contracts will Our aspiration to continue to grow our Services business improve.
More importantly, winning, contracting and taking is predicated on the fact that revenue resulting from our on new contracts successfully, is more fundamental to Contractual Services offerings generally enjoys greater the long-term growth of the business and its strategic development.
This will beunderpinned by our new Group visibility and longevity.
operating model, which has taken effect in the UK and Germany, since the start of2013.
The performance of our Supply Chain business, with its reliance on customer capital expenditure, is less significant to the Group as a whole than it once was, but for our French business, it remains critical.
As such, a fragile economic environment in France is a cause for some concern.
Adjusted operating profit is also stated after charging finance costs on CSF.
8 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1,226.9 1,265.4 1,102.2 1,195.6 Over recent years, we have made significant investment in Supply Chain revenue was up by 5.0 per cent at 764.2 million our contract bidding and associated governance processes.
2011: 728.0 million, illustrating that it was the mix, as opposed We go to considerable lengths to scrutinise all aspects that to the volume of product being purchased by our customers could prevent the delivery of a high standard of service to that was the main contributing factor to a reduced profitability ourcustomers, as soon as practical after business take-on.
Our Supply Chain business can be impacted Although it has taken us some time to reach the standards significantly by the short and medium term buying patterns of of service delivery to which we have for a long time aspired, our customers, which are both difficult to forecast and reliant both within the UK and as a Group, we have found that such onexternal factors.
standards are not easily achieved and maintained without The Supply Chain business was underpinned by demand appropriate planning, expertise and discipline.
In 2012, within for Windows 7 transformations, particularly within the Retail theUK business we reaped the benefit of our past efforts and Banking industry and Retail sector.
These transformations investment inthis area.
additionally enabled our Professional Services business to grow We have leveraged our central shared services infrastructure revenues by 18.4 per cent, with significant engagements and delivery model to engage and deploy our capability and delivered into the same sectors.
Three large new contracts, firstly with a Our IT redeployment and recycling subsidiary, RDC, global provider of systems and services to the civil and defence successfully moved into its new and larger facility at Braintree, aerospaces, a global infrastructure and media company, and Essex at the start of the year and this has enabled further AstraZeneca, a global research and pharmaceutical company, opportunities to deliver enhanced services to customers have been successfully implemented in the UK during the course and improve earnings.
Adjusted operating profit at RDC of the year.
The full revenue benefit of these contracts will be grew by 13.9 per cent during the course of the year and seen throughout 2013 and beyond.
However, we are fully aware we look forward to continuing this growth.
that the level of margin that we are able to generate from such While our UK performance in 2012 was very encouraging, the contracts depends, to a large degree, on our ability to sustain same rate of Contractual Services growth is unlikely to continue the levels of execution that we managed to deliver in 2012. in2013, but if we continue to provide a high quality of service and Customers still value their IT independence and prefer our delivery and execution remain as in 2012, we are confident to outsource their IT requirements selectively.
Our ability that we can sustain these healthy Services margins in 2013. to advise on, as well as transition and transform, their IT infrastructure to respond to their business goals and competitive pressures, is ensuring that we continue to win a significant number of second, or greater, generation outsourcing contracts.
This allows us not to be solely reliant on new market growth in this sector.
We continue to focus on sustaining this trend, which mitigates our exposure to a lack of market growth in this area and ensures that we perform competitively against our peers.
We believe that this is borne out by the fact that, in a market where Gartner predicted no more than 2.8 per cent growth in IT services for 2012, our contract base over the course of the year grew by 18.9 per cent to 291.0 million 2011: 244.8 million.
However, much Our ability to deliver on ofthis new contract base has come from contracts won customer satisfaction has towards the end of 2011, but which only started to deliver been rewarded with the revenue in 2012. number one ranking within Our continual focus on customer satisfaction is of paramount KPMGs UK Outsourcing importance to us, not only in the commencement of new Service Provider Performance contracts, but also over the life of contracts, as is evidenced bythe significant number of Contractual Services extensions and Satisfaction SPSS and renewals secured in the year, as well as additional, Survey for 2012. repeatengagements of our Professional Services.
Our ability todeliver on customer satisfaction has been rewarded with thenumber one ranking within KPMGs UK Outsourcing Service Provider Performance and Satisfaction SPSS Survey for 2012.
We additionally achieved top place for customer 1 reference-ability and innovation within the same survey.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Operating review continued While we are disappointed that our Services margins reduced Germany during 2012, we do believe that we took the correct approach Revenue m in protecting our customer relationships, our reputation and Adjusted the long-term interests of both the German business and the operating profit Group as a whole.
We believe that this is illustrated by the fact that we have not suffered any customer attrition as a result of 14.4m the issues outlined above.
We further believe that we will derive benefit in Germany from the focused and robust review Contract base of our contract approval, take-on and governance processes.
09 10 11 12 320.0m The German contract take-on processes have now been directly aligned with those currently used in the UK, which have Revenue by business type been developed and refined over many years.
If one considers the UKs recent track record in this regard, we expect that this 1.
Workplace 19% action should bring long-term protection to the business from 1.
6. the same issues being repeated in the future.
Datacenter & Networking 31% We also believe that the action taken to date has already 3.
Software 12% brought early signs of stabilisation around the troubled 4.
Third Party Services 5% contracts, as evidenced by improved service levels and 5.
Professional Services 8% increasing Services gross margins.
Contractual Services 25% profit margin for the last quarter in the period increased by 3.
2.0per cent, compared to the weak performance in the third quarter of 2012.
We have implemented additional indirect cost saving activities, which have been ongoing since the middle of In 2012, total revenue for the German segment, in local the second quarter of 2012 and have resulted in indirect currency, increased by 4.1 per cent to 1,473.1 million headcount reduction by close to 5.0 per cent from the 2011: 1,415.3 million.
A significant number of large position at the end of the first half of 2012.
This has Contractual Services wins towards the end of 2011 assisted resulted in an exceptional charge of 1.8 million in 2012 in driving this growth and indeed, Services revenue in and we expect that the resulting and ongoing efficiency Germany increased by 8.7 per cent to 484.2 million 2011: gains and cost savings will reduce our cost base further 445.5 million.
This growth came despite a strong Services in 2013, whilst incurring some exceptional charges.
revenue performance in the comparative year of 2011.
We have reduced our focus on winning new Contractual This material increase in Contractual Services wins, largely Services business in Germany which has meant that we have concentrated within the same period of late 2011, presented our been unable to take full advantage of the market opportunity German business with a number of challenges.
The situation was arising from the growth in selective IT outsourcing.
We believe exacerbated by the fact that the overall structure and contract that the action we have taken towards stabilising the troubled take-on processes proved inadequate and inappropriate for contracts deserved priority and that the revision of our take-on dealing with such a significant number of Contractual Services processes provides us with a more solid foundation, as well as wins at the same time.
It became clear that the German business the confidence to strengthen our pipeline and respond to did not have a sufficient number of experienced staff required to market demand at the appropriate time.
Our efforts to address this issue were We were pleased with the significant recognition we received also hampered by a shortage of project, business take-on and for our Professional Services offerings, both in the areas of contracting management resource and skills in the overall consultancy and implementation.
Pierre Audoin Consultants German workforce.
However, significant incremental direct ranked us as Best in Class in the PAC Radar Workplace investment was made where deemed to be necessary and Management & Transformation category, as one of the three appropriate to safeguard our customers.
leading Services providers in Germany.
Our Professional The direct investment required in overcoming these Services activities have included supporting a large complex challenges has had a material impact on our profitability.
Infrastructure Transformation Project for KPMG Germany.
Overall, adjusted operating profit for the year was reduced by 55.0 per cent to 14.4 million 2011: 31.9 million.
