Operating review UK Packaging 2011 12 2010 11 Revenue m 960.2 917.7 Operating pro t m 64.4 54.2 Return on sales % 6.7 5.9 Return on average capital employed % 13.9 10.3 before exceptional items and amortisation Packaging of the overall business, it gives us an excellent Market and business background In 2011 12, our corrugated business has platform for growth in the region.
Revenue in grown ahead of the market.
In the countries in the recycling business increased signi cantly t In the UK, DS Smith operates three which DS Smith currently operates the market in and margins remain good while return on interconnected businesses, being France has been at, the market in Poland has average capital is excellent, re ecting the packaging, paper manufacturing continued to show good growth, while the UK quality of service we provide.
Prior to the market has been dif cult European Federation acquisition of SCA Packaging our In the paper business, the volatile pricing of Corrugated Board Manufacturers, FEFCO, operations comprised 28 corrugated environment has meant that, while the business year to 31 March 2012.
Blended market packaging manufacturing sites, 3 paper has performed well operationally, financial growth in the markets in which we operate mills and 15 recycling depots.
returns have, as expected, been disappointing.
Volume growth in our Over the year our focus has been on ensuring t In 2011 12, DS Smith in the UK sold corrugated box business of 2 per cent has been 2 that the paper business is aligned to support 1.1 billion m of corrugated packaging driven by a focus on our customers, with volume our corrugated packaging operations with and board.
The UK market size is gains both with existing and new customers.
2 integrated operations where possible to reduce estimated at 3.3 billion m FEFCO The input cost environment has remained duplicate costs.
One example is in logistics, 2011.
Excluding output from our mills at volatile, with the market price of recovered where we have started operating our eet in a Hollins expected to close later in 2012 bre rising year-on-year by 11 per cent, for co-ordinated way across paper and packaging and Higher Kings sold in September example.
Our total Group input costs increased together.
We have also been working on the 2011 we sold approximately 600 by 124.9 million and we have addressed performance qualities of the paper produced thousand tonnes of corrugated case this through the usual prompt pricing so that the paper output supports the drive material CCM in 2011 12: the UK within the packaging operations to deliver recovery discipline.
market is estimated at 2.1 million tonnes lighter weight recycled boxes.
In the year we CEPI, to March 2012.
We also made UK Packaging have reduced our UK paper capacity, with an additional 266 thousand tonnes The UK Packaging business, which comprises the sale of Higher Kings Mill in September of other paper grades, principally our recycling operations, paper manufacturing 2011, and the announced closure of our plasterboard liner.
Of the CCM that and the design and manufacture of corrugated Hollins Mill, which is expected to close we manufactured in 2011 12, packaging, has delivered a revenue increase in the second half of 2012. approximately 340 thousand tonnes of 5 per cent, principally driven by pricing was used within our packaging business.
The year has been In the corrugated packaging business, we characterised by a robust performance from have outperformed a dif cult market, while t In 2011 12, DS Smith Recycling the corrugated packaging and recycling collected 1.8 million tonnes of old swift decision making and pricing discipline businesses and rm cost control resulting in has meant that we have succeeded in corrugated containers and other used an improvement in operating pro t of 19 per recovering costs.
We have continued to see paper, the majority of which is utilised cent and an improvement in margin of 80 basis success from the development of R-Flute in by our UK paper business.
The market points, despite signi cant headwinds from the size for all types of recycled paper the UK which has shown volume improvements paper manufacturing business, where market and board in the UK is 8 million tonnes.
considerably ahead of the market.
We continue conditions have been volatile, particularly in to see growth in our FMCG customers, where t In 2011 12, our corrugated box the second half of the year.
our focus on delivering high quality, innovative revenue was approximately 75 per product, with high standards of service has In recycling, which includes all recycling cent from FMCG customers.
The largest helped us gain market share, principally by customer in the UK comprised 2 per operations including those outside the UK, expanding our position with existing customers.
cent of the divisions revenue.
overall volumes of bre collected increased by 3 per cent to 1.8 million tonnes.
We are now The return on average capital employed operating in Poland where we have a sole bre for UK Packaging improved signi cantly to and waste supply contract with Tesco, collecting 13.9 per cent 2010 11: 10.3 per cent, from 400 locations across that country.
While re ecting both increased pro tability and the volumes from this are modest in the context www.
com a sustained reduction in working capital.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 12 Business Review Our strategy in action: Service is core to our business Nestl Aero Biscuit Retail Ready Packaging DS Smith Packaging worked alongside leading FMCG brand, Nestl, to create striking retail ready packaging for the major product launch of Aero Biscuits.
The eight colour pre-print exographic pack features a superb replication of the product.
ImageRight, part of DS Smiths PackRight suite of tools, ensured colour harmonisation with the shopper pack.
In addition to the exceptional print, the pack includes very effective perforation which offers a balance between strength for machine assembly, supply chain stability and reliability of opening in store.
The high performing pack has been optimised to minimise the amount of material required to meet Nestls needs and is 100% recyclable.
High impact design for Coca-Cola The specialist retail print and display division of DS Smith Packaging, DS Smith Multigraphics, has combined high impact graphics with structural stability to produce a stunning point of purchase display for Coca-Cola Enterprises campaign for the 2012 Olympics.
The Coke Bus designed to combine the image of a London Routemaster Bus with Olympic graphics provides an innovative modular large scale display that can t either three, four or five pallets of product.
These high quality screen printed units have been developed for wholesale channels.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 13 Operating review continued Continental European Corrugated Packaging 2011 12 2010 11 Revenue m 743.9 599.4 Operating pro t m 55.6 39.8 Return on sales % 7.5 6.6 Return on average capital employed % 14.0 12.5 before exceptional items and amortisation The continental European business has delivered This technology, combined with our boxes Market and business background an excellent performance, with revenue growth manufactured to a high degree of accuracy, of 24 per cent, 10 per cent on a like-for-like can substantially improve the performance t The market for corrugated packaging basis.
This like-for-like growth was driven by a of the packaging while using lighter weight across continental Europe is estimated mix of volume and pricing where our operations 2 material, delivering greater value to our at 33 billion m FEFCO 2011 of which outperformed the underlying market, due to customers.
This innovative approach allows the markets in France comprised c. 15 per our focus on FMCG in those regions.
The us to develop a long-term working partnership cent, Italy c. 17 per cent and Poland combination of Otor with the existing DS Smith with those customers.
business has enhanced the market position Operating pro t increased 40 per cent to t Our continental European business of the enlarged business.
In Poland we saw 55.6 million 2010 11: 39.8 million, prior to the acquisition of SCA Packaging particularly strong growth driven by our FMCG comprises 27 manufacturing sites in 17 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Operating customers in the region with growth from both France, Italy, Poland, Czech Republic margin increased 90 basis points to 7.5 per existing and new customers.
In Italy we also and Slovakia.
This increase performed well with good volume growth in a 2 in continental Europe sold 1.3 billion m has been achieved through a combination declining market despite a strategic decision to of corrugated packaging and board.
of operational gearing, and the bene t reduce our exposure to lower quality corrugated DS Smith also sold c. 290 thousand of synergies from the Otor acquisition sheet sales.
tonnes of recycled paper, of which coming through as planned, in particular In France, volumes have been robust with a c. 130 thousand tonnes was CCM, on procurement.
focus on high quality, innovation-led products used by our packaging operations Return on average capital employed for FMCG customers driving our increase in and the remainder was other specialist increased 150 basis points to 14.0 per market share.
We have been working with grades, sold externally.
cent 2010 11: 12.5 per cent, towards our customers, not only to supply corrugated t In 2011 12, our corrugated box the top end of the Group target range of boxes, but also supplying bespoke packaging revenue was c. 68 per cent from FMCG 12 15 per cent, principally driven by machinery for the end of packaging lines.
The largest customer in the increased pro t margin.
continental European division comprised c. 5 per cent of the divisions revenue.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 14 Business Review Our strategy in action: Innovation is driving pro ts DS Smith Packaging France has worked with long-term customer Danone to develop a new corrugated display unit for their Evian product.
The boxes and display unit use pre-print in six colours to give a high quality nish.
This was combined with the heavy-duty corrugated base unit for the display to stand on.
Overall, the product demonstrates the bene t of different elements of DS Smith working together.
DS Smith Packaging in Poland has worked with a leading beer brand to develop an innovative corrugated container with a waterproof liner for bottled beer, called the Ice Pack.
Consumers simply remove the lid and add their own ice to create an ice bucket, with special design to prevent leaking.
This is the first product of its type on the market in Poland.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 15 Operating review continued Plastic Packaging 2011 12 2010 11 Market and business background Revenue m 265.3 242.2 t Our Plastic Packaging business comprises Operating pro t m 22.0 16.9 liquid packaging and dispensing LP&D Return on sales % 8.3 7.0 and returnable transit packaging RTP.
Return on average capital employed % 19.6 14.9 t LP&D is principally used in the beverage sector and is also used in some industrial before exceptional items and amortisation solutions such as oils and in-home products such as laundry detergents.
The global market for LP&D products is estimated at c. 500 million.
DS Smith Our Plastic Packaging division has higher margin mix of products, as some lower has a number two position in the global delivered a very strong performance, with margin sales have been replaced by higher market, with a particularly strong revenue up 10 per cent to 265.3 million quality products, and also due to cost position in the US.
Operating restructuring in the European part of the LP&D 11 manufacturing operations in Europe, pro t increased 30 per cent to 22.0 million business.
We have set up a new factory in USA, Australia and New Zealand.
2010 11: 16.9 million while return on Thailand to shorten our supply chain to serve sales increased 130 basis points and return the growing market in that region for fruit juice t RTP is used across the retail, automotive, on average capital employed increased and concentrate exports: this facility is expected electronics and beverage sectors.
operates across 10 locations in Europe.
In the LP&D business, the US business continued The RTP business has seen signi cant revenue t We also make modi ed atmosphere to perform well with continued success for our growth in the year, with the extrusion business packaging for fresh fruit and vegetables.
products for tea urns, smoothie dispensers and performing particularly well, supplying products coffee bags.
Margins in this part of the business particularly into the pharmaceutical and improved signi cantly due both to a move to a automotive industries.
Our strategy in action: Eco-friendly innovation customers to invest in new lling equipment.
DS Smith Plastics has developed an This bag uses up to 70 per cent less plastic  and innovative bag than regular blow-moulded jugs, and its inner solution in collaboration with Ecologic for pouch and spout can be recycled along with their eco.
The innovative bag plastic grocery bags in retailer drop-off bins.
Quality was designed to t the eco.
bottle outer Since commercialising the bag for Ecologic shell, made from 100% recycled bre.
is our in January of 2011, we have supplied Through R&D and innovation the bag sealing approximately 1 million 50-ounce bags was developed to withstand and perform with a detergent-style closing cap or twist trademark under stringent critical-to-quality criteria in the cap, for the US market, with other sizes distribution chain.
The bag can be lled by under development.
any standard commercial bottle lling equipment eliminating the need for The eco.
bottle is well suited to a wide array of consumer products ranging from pourable goods to beverages and personal care products, making it attractive to ecological-minded customers.
It is 100 per cent recyclable and compostable.
