Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Review of Operations 23 8IBU XF NFBTVSF 3FWFOVF CZ EFTUJOBUJPO 4 Why we How we 1.
North America 52.0 3 measure it have done 2.
Asia 6.5 New customer Reects the success 18.8% 4.
Rest of World 3.6 acquisition of targeting organic increase in live new growth opportunities customers compared to 2011 2 Success of Indicates the potential 25.1% marketing activity revenue generating increase in marketing impact of marketing responses versus 2011 investment 3FWFOVF CZ FOE NBSLFU On time in full Demonstrates the 1.1% 1.
Oil and gas 19.3 1 8 ability to meet improvement 2.
Fabrication machinery 17.0 delivery demands from 2011 3.
Other 21.6 5 3 4 LFZ JOJUJBUJWFT 8IP XF BSF BOE XIBU XF EP PX XF EP JU The division is a global market leader in the Our objective is to leverage our extensive t Further roll-out of new sites and provision of a rapid supply of primarily plastic product range and geographic distribution continued expansion into new markets products for protection and nishing applications, capability, using our efficient sourcing and t Launch of an integrated global and includes the following activities.
manufacturing operations and sophisticated Component Distribution catalogue IT platform, to respond to the demands of our t Go-live of new Component Distribution Component Distribution comprising the Moss, diverse international customer base.
Our tool e-commerce platform Skiffy, Alliance, Reid and Richco operations library and production experience, along with t Leverage Pipe Protection Technologies is a global market leading manufacturer and our inventory logistics structure, are unique expertise and technology into new distributor of plastic injection moulded, assets.
We have strong business to business end-markets vinyl dip moulded and metal items.
marketing expertise electronic, web-based and physical and support this with a number MSI Pipe Protection Technologies specialises in of comprehensive product catalogues available the manufacture of high performance, innovative in many languages and online.
products from commodity resins to engineeringgrade thermoplastics and polymer alloys for use We target organic growth opportunities in a range of end-markets.
through increasing the range and availability of our products, and by network expansion into The Speciality Tapes business of Duraco is a new international territories and growing density leading manufacturer and distributor of adhesive within existing territories.
Driving an increased coated products, including foam, magnetic, number of transactions from a growing nger lift and acrylic high bond tapes, hook customer and product base, while focusing on and loop and non-skid foam.
further reduction of transaction costs, is a key objective for our continued success.
The division Collectively, these three business areas serve continues to seek acquisition opportunities, a very broad base of over 150,000 customers which can move us into complementary product in industries such as hydraulics, pneumatics, categories or further our distribution capability.
oil and gas, electrical controls, construction, point of purchase and tubular metal products.
We serve these customers from nine principal manufacturing facilities and 53 sales and distribution operations in a total of 23 countries.
24 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 3FWJFX PG 0QFSBUJPOT 1SPUFDUJPO 'JOJTIJOH 1SPEVDUT DPOUJOVFE Continued new sitePDBUJPO 6OJUFE 4UBUFT roll-out allows us to increase our penetration in existing markets as well as expand our geographic footprint into new territories PX XF QFSGPSNFE JO The integration of Richco and Reid continued Boosted by the increasing use of electronic in line with expectations.
Richcos US operations marketing media, our continued focus on Range expansion and new site roll-outs were successfully transferred to our main Alliance efficient marketing investment and activity support balanced, profitable growth facility in Erie, with progress also being made on delivered strong lead indicators versus 2011: Revenue increased 48.6% at constant exchange integrating sites in Continental Europe.
In the marketing responses were 25% ahead, and to 237.7m, with like-for-like growth of 9.6% UK, we consolidated Richcos manufacturing the number of live accounts at the end of driven by continued range expansion, new site with our Moss site at Kidlington, and our December increased to a record level of 156,000, roll-outs and improved marketing effectiveness.
additional investment will allow the further up 17% versus 2011.
Revenue from higher The results were boosted by the inclusion of a integration of Richcos warehousing during margin proprietary products, as opposed to full year contribution from Richco, as well as an 2013 as well as supporting new range expansion custom parts, increased to 72% from 70% incremental eight months from Reid Supply.
We also leveraged cross-selling in FY 2011, on a comparable basis excluding opportunities, with new Richco catalogues in recent acquisitions.
Underlying growth in the Component Asia and Europe now featuring Moss products, Distribution businesses of Moss, Skiffy and as well as greater integration of Richco and Adjusted operating profit grew 44.1% at Alliance was broad-based across geographies Moss eld sales teams.
constant exchange to 53.1m, equating to a and key end-market sectors.
During the year, 70bps reduction in the margin.
Operating and we further expanded our range, with the The Speciality Tapes business of Duraco process efficiencies, together with leverage from addition of some 2,500 new products, mainly performed well, particularly supported by growth the strong revenue growth and a continued centred around hardware and fasteners.
In in the nger lift tape and hook and loop ranges.
positive mix effect from moving the business addition, our successful roll-out programme The Express sites in New Jersey and Houston, further into higher margin standard parts were continued, with the establishment of new sites US opened during the year have made a very more than offset by the dilutive impact of Reid for Moss in Xiamen, China and Alliance Express encouraging start, while the Stera Tape business and Richco.
However, as anticipated, our in Jacksonville, US, and we entered the Austrian, was renamed as Duraco Europe, with crosssuccessful integration and delivery of synergy Swiss and Slovakian markets for the first time: in selling opportunities benefiting from the launch savings is progressively closing the margin the case of the latter, the sales and warehousing of the first catalogue in the region.
differential between the acquired and the capability which has been set up will also act underlying businesses.
as a regional distribution hub for Central and Notwithstanding a record year in 2011, MSI Eastern Europe.
delivered further growth across all sites in 2012.
Complemented by value-adding M&A To underpin the future growth potential of this Following the year end, we announced the business, a new ofce, manufacturing plant and acquisition of 100% of the share capital of warehouse were opened in Houston, in May.
The Ulinco Components AB Ulinco Components 136,000 square-foot facility is double the size of for an undisclosed cash consideration.
Based in the previous location and, along with investment Sweden, Ulinco Components is a leading in larger injection moulding machines and mould distributor of plastic protection and nishing bases, has increased production rates.
The products, hardware and specialist masking additions support a new best in market product solutions in the Nordic region.
The acquisition of line, the MaxX range, which is compliant with the Ulinco Components not only expands the product thread protector standard recently implemented range and customer base of our Component by the American Petroleum Institute.
Distribution businesses, but also reinforces and extends their geographic presence in Scandinavia.
Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Review of Operations 25.
BSLFU USFOET 8F BSF B MPOH XBZ GSPN Increasing labour costs Standardised manufacturing processes TBUVSBUJPO JO BOZ PG PVS NBSLFUT and components typically require less FWFO UIF NBSLFUT XF IBWF CFFO labour, thereby helping customers reduce JO GPS NBOZ ZFBST their cost base.
Given their very wide application, the global market for protection and nishing products Industry specication MaxX thread is large, fragmented and ill-dened for As end-markets become more sophisticated protectors both suppliers and customers: however, and demanding, so the requirement for higher Independently tested management estimates the value at in quality components increases.
Over and above and certied, our excess of 2bn pa. this more general trend, certain customers innovative MaxX notably those in the oil and gas industry are thread protectors meet Manufacturing GDP growth rate increasingly facing regulatory guidelines in the latest standards in With protection and nishing products being terms of the specication of the components the oil and gas industry used in a very broad spectrum of industrial they use.
end-markets, those countries with a higher manufacturing GDP growth rate are Key new product opportunities particularly attractive.
t Continued range expansion, to provide customers with the broadest selection Increased use of standard components of standard components There is an increasing move to small, t Develop new sectors for existing customer specialised exible manufacturing businesses, base, such as hardware which assemble their specialised parts and t Globalise successful local products equipment from a range of standard through established supply chain components.
This approach provides them t Enter new and adjacent product markets, with exibility, the ability to move quickly and such as point of purchase Improving operational excellence provide their own customers with the service t Launch products which are compliant and execution they require.
with new industry specications, such as Towards the end of the year, we announced a the MaxX range of thread protectors new organisational structure for our Protection Just-in-time delivery & Finishing Products businesses aimed at better As customers are required to deliver their own exploiting previously untapped cross-selling and products just-in-time, so their demand for end-market potential.
This structure took effect critical components from their suppliers is from 1 January 2013. increasingly on the same basis.
Going forward, Component Distribution will be managed under a common structure within three geographical regions: Europe, Middle East & Africa, Americas and Asia.
The implementation of these regional structures is designed to facilitate further integration of the current operations and to drive a number of commercial 0VS SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT a safer and healthier workplace.
In addition, and operational benets, with the objective of the Duraco Europe business delivered further promoting our full range of products as broadly Over and above compliance with environmental improvement in its health and safety metrics as possible across our various channels to market.
standards and a commitment to reducing our towards our divisional standards.
In conjunction impact on the environment, all our divisional with our comprehensive policies in this area, Separately, with over 30 years experience businesses are increasingly focused on the extent the division has achieved key international and its new state-of-the-art facility, there to which new  products accreditations across its facilities which are are opportunities for MSI Pipe Protection and processes present new opportunities to add detailed on page 47.
Technologies to leverage its expertise in value in response to customer demands, as well developing and manufacturing innovative as potentially reducing costs.
Notwithstanding We were very proud to receive the Chief products into industries beyond oil and gas, our very good revenue growth in 2012 and the Executives Special Award in recognition where it is already the leader in the Oil Country integration of Reid and Richco, we continued of our Kidlington, UK facility attaining the Tubular Goods market.
to make further environmental improvements recently-introduced ISO 50001 standard.
during the year, with a very pleasing reduction Further information on this achievement For the full year 2013, Component Distribution in CO emissions, energy use, general waste can be found on page 46.
2 and Pipe Protection Technologies will be and water consumption.
reported together as the renamed Component We were also pleased by the level of & Protection Solutions division, while the Our focus is on the fundamental objective participation of employees across our sites in Speciality Tapes activities of Duraco will form of securing the health and safety of all our the Filtrona Engagement Survey, in particular part of the Coated & Security Products division.
During the year, our MSI site in that 86% consider their part of the division to be FY 2012 comparatives for this new organisational Veracruz, Mexico achieved Gold status in the good to work for and 91% enjoy the work they structure are provided in note 30.
Companys Health & Safety Awards with a do, both of which results are above the average further three sites receiving other accreditation, for the total universe of companies which showing successful achievement in providing undertake such surveys.
26 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 3FWJFX PG 0QFSBUJPOT 1PSPVT 5FDIOPMPHJFT, FZ mOBODJBM IJHIMJHIUT 1 Revenue Operating margin m % 2008 49.7 2008 18.1 2009 66.0 2009 22.0 2010 2010 74.7 23.7 2011 77.9 2011 23.6 2012 2012 85.8 24.1 10.1% 50bps 1 Operating profit Revenue per employee m k 2008 9.0 2008 110.1 2009 14.5 2009 148.0 2010 2010 17.7 164.2 2011 18.4 2011 170.2 2012 2012 20.7 155.6 12.5% 8.6% Revenue growth 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Review of Operations 27 3FWFOVF CZ EFTUJOBUJPO 8IBU XF NFBTVSF Why we How we 1.
North America 39.7 4 measure it have done 2.
Rest of World 11.9 3 percentage of success of new of revenue generated sales derived from products from products new products and technology launched in the last three years 2 Sustained IP Continued 27 development development of Currently 27 2011: 25 intellectual property patents in force for the to support future US, with 19 2011: 21 3FWFOVF CZ FOE NBSLFU growth and strong applications pending development 6 project pipeline 1.
Healthcare 19.9 4 Customer Drives performance of 5.4% 4.
Household products 9.7 complaints quality systems and 58 complaints being 5.
Clean Room 9.6 service delivery a 5.4% increase 6.
Other 4.1 versus 2011 3 Man hours Indicative of shop 2.28 2 per machine hour oor productivity 2011: 2.23 man hours per machine hour LFZ JOJUJBUJWFT 8IP XF BSF BOE XIBU XF EP PX XF EP JU The Porous Technologies division is a world Our objective is to leverage our technical t Extend writing instruments product leader in the development and manufacture expertise in collaboration with our customers, portfolio further via nibs of customised liquid and vapour handling to provide them with innovative, high quality, t Globalise speciality wiping materials products engineered from three material reliable, quick-to-market solutions to their t Develop core technology in technologies: bonded and non-woven bre, respective uid handling challenges.
The speciality ltration polyurethane foam and porous plastic.
divisions R&D teams focus on each of our three t Continue expansion of products material technologies and constantly develop using porous plastics Our range consists of components which new intellectual property regarding materials, t Establish commercial presence in India serve as a critical part of a variety of endprocesses and applications, with a view to products, including medical diagnostic devices, providing new and existing customers with wound care products, writing instruments, unique solutions.
Our orientation towards printer cartridges, air fresheners, cosmetic R&D further enables us to offer prototypes applicators and speciality wiping products and modications, to ensure components t used for critical environments such as clean perfectly to our customers applications.
We seek to use our global footprint to provide We serve customers in over 56 countries from our customers with shorter lead times and six manufacturing facilities in four countries, supply security.
As our multiple locations utilise with a regional commercial and new business many identical proprietary processes and development structure.
Supporting the independent supply chains, we are able to division globally are R&D facilities in the US, provide a reliable source of back-up supply with regional teams facilitating product capability around the world.
In addition, our development in other geographies.
global outlook allows us to respond to the various needs of our customers in differing geographies and cultures.
28 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 3FWJFX PG 0QFSBUJPOT 1PSPVT 5FDIOPMPHJFT DPOUJOVFE South Korean-basedPDBUJPO 4PVUI, PSFB Jae Yong has further expanded our presence in the Asia Pacic region Quality is at the forefront of the divisions efforts, Household products & personal care together Adjusted operating profit rose 12.9% at given the critical role many of our components c. 10% of divisional revenue increased 2%, constant exchange to 20.7m, for a 20bps uplift play in our customers end-products.
Our supported by the expansion of sales to an in the operating margin.
Continued initiatives to production sites are ISO 9001:2008 compliant, existing customer in an additional geographic improve efficiency were partially offset by the and our facility in St. Charles, US is also ISO region.
Writing instruments c. 30% of divisional cost of establishing a new corporate ofce in 13485:2003 certied.
Quality laboratories at revenue was ahead 2% on an underlying basis Singapore, further investment in porous plastics each of our facilities provide consistency checks ie, excluding the acquisition of Jae Yong, with technology resources and the short-term dilutive throughout the production process, to assure continued success in capturing new business in impact of acquisitions.
reliability and satisfaction to our customers.
developing markets partially offset by lower volumes in more established markets.
Complemented by value-adding M&A PX XF QFSGPSNFE JO In 2012, we made two exciting strategic In 2012, the division continued its successful acquisitions: Jae Yong for an undisclosed sum, Successful innovation supports balanced, track record of converting its intellectual and Lymtech scientific for a cash consideration profitable growth property and manufacturing know-how into of US$45.3m.
Based in South Korea, Jae Yong Revenue increased 11.8% at constant exchange commercial success.
Similar in nature to our is a globally recognised manufacturer of to 85.8m.
Adjusting for the acquisition of Jae other technologies, porous plastic components reservoirs, nibs and tubes for the writing Yong in April and Lymtech scientific in June, as are engineered from a variety of raw materials, instrument industry, and expands our offering well as the transfer of a portion of intercompany each with differing properties such as pore size, in this segment from ink-management reservoirs revenue to the Filter Products division, like-fordensity, chemical resistance, rigidity and to include other critical components.
This technology allows us to enhances our divisional presence in the growing increase our reach in the uid-handling space Asia Pacic region.
As such, we will be able to Revenue growth of 9% in healthcare c. 20% and to expand further in existing markets.
deliver an expanded portfolio of high-quality, of divisional revenue was boosted by further innovative components and excellent service success in point of care diagnostics and During the year, in healthcare we developed a for writing instruments to customers around infectious uid collection and disposal systems cannula lter designed to protect the user from the world.
Printer systems c. 30% contaminated uids by preventing leakage, while of divisional revenue was up 3%, supported our new negative pressure wound care therapy US-based Lymtech scientific is a manufacturer by new product development and geographic also incorporates porous plastic to prevent uid and distributor of porous wiping materials used expansion but partially impacted by the waste from contaminating the pump systems, within the clean environments increasingly bankruptcy ling by a global OEM account with our foam being used at the wound site required by the medical, life science, electronic early in the year.
to provide comfort and absorb exudate.
This transaction not Additionally, we launched writing instrument only extends our manufacturing technology into nibs in both porous plastic and polyester bre, the complementary area of non-woven bre, and we developed a new bre wick technology but also gives us access to the attractive growth for use in road-side breathalyser test kits.
and higher value clean room and controlled environment wipes market as well as adding a distribution selling channel.
Additionally, through leveraging the global commercial and operational resources of the division, there is a Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Review of Operations 29.
BSLFU USFOET $VTUPNFST SFMZ PO VT UP DPOUJOVF Household & personal care: emerging market growth UP EFWFMPQ OPWFM OFYU HFOFSBUJPO Estimated market growth of 3-4% pa, QSPEVDUT UIBU XJMM ESJWF UIFJS with consumers increasingly transitioning HFOFSBUJPO QSPEVDUT to more sophisticated household and personal care products.
Management estimates the global addressable Specialist market for our porous technologies products Non-woven products: growing wiping materials at around 1.2bn.
The underlying growth requirement for sensitive environments Porous wiping rates and key trends facing the division vary Estimated market growth of 6-7% pa. materials are used depending on the end-market served and Industries such as electronics increasingly in the clean room the respective uid handling challenge operate in controlled environments, while environments being addressed.
others eg hospitals have a requirement increasingly required for clean room conditions to combat infection by a number of Printing systems: and or contamination risk.
end-markets performance improvements Estimated market growth of 3% pa, with Writing instruments: range expansion customers looking to enhance the performance Estimated market growth of 2% pa, with of their products, such as through the use of customers increasingly looking for a total increasingly complex inks.
solutions provider from ink reservoirs to nibs.
Healthcare: enhanced uid Key new product opportunities handling capabilities t Improved technologies to further enhance Estimated market growth of 8-10% pa, uid handling capability driven by the migration from slower and more t Additional technology platforms, to expensive laboratory-based testing to results take advantage of new end-market real opportunity for us to expand the Lymtech being provided at the point-of-care.
opportunities scientific business geographically into the t Further range expansion sizeable Asian and European clean room Advanced wound care: changing t Investment in faster-growing product wipes markets.
customer patient needs end-markets, such as medical Estimated market growth of 6% pa. t Continued focus on customer partnerships Improving operational excellence A globally aging population is resulting and execution in a change in the incidence of medical In March, we opened a new corporate ofce in conditions requiring advanced wound Singapore, which will act as a commercial centre care products, such as diabetes.
of excellence and regional headquarters for the growth businesses in Asia.
This new location which includes sales, marketing, business development and customer service capabilities will allow us to provide our customers with an even better level of service and more co-ordinated on a regional basis, supported 0VS SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT We were similarly pleased with the response of by our state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities our sites to the Group employee engagement around the world.
We are focused on the delivery of the highest survey, notably that 86% consider their part of standards of safety, quality and performance the business is good to work for and 88% feel During the year, we also re-focused our across all our international operations.
Our global a strong sense of commitment both well commercial efforts on speciality foam, bonded initiatives continue to keep our employees above average scores, when compared to bre and porous plastics and non-woven focused on driving to zero both lost time the total universe of companies which products, so as to leverage our capabilities more accidents and environmental accidents.
effectively and provide our customers with even greater value-added propositions.
To help drive As a result, we were very pleased that our St. our global footprint and expansion goals, we Charles, US site received Gold status for the also undertook a thorough restructuring of third year running in the Filtrona Health & Safety our commercial team to create a single sales Awards, with accreditation also going to our organisation grouped by region: Americas: Ningbo, China, Richmond, US and Reinbek Europe, Middle East and Africa: and Asia.
We took steps to further These three regional teams, each headed by reduce our environmental impact: our energy a Sales Director, successfully draw together the and water consumption both improved, and we necessary skills and international experience made particularly strong progress in lowering which will allow us to support our collective our CO emissions and general waste.
Accordingly, we were very proud to receive the Group Environmental Award at our Reinbek We also invested further in our porous plastics facility for an energy management system that capabilities at our facilities in St. Charles and has reduced and controlled energy consumption Richmond, US.
30 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 3FWJFX PG 0QFSBUJPOT $PBUFE 4FDVSJUZ 1SPEVDUT, FZ mOBODJBM IJHIMJHIUT 1 Revenue Operating margin m % 2008 65.1 2008 13.1 2009 65.4 2009 16.5 2010 2010 67.4 19.0 2011 72.6 2011 18.6 2012 2012 85.3 17.5 17.5% 110bps 1 Operating profit Revenue per employee m k 2008 8.5 2008 179.8 2009 10.8 2009 187.4 2010 2010 12.8 184.0 2011 13.5 2011 197.8 2012 2012 14.9 203.3 10.4% 2.8% Revenue growth 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Review of Operations 31 8IBU XF NFBTVSF 3FWFOVF CZ EFTUJOBUJPO 4 Why we How we 1.
Europe 48.6 measure it have done 2.
North America 12.7 3 percentage of success of new of revenue generated packaging sales products and from products derived from technologies launched in the last recently developed three years products 2 On time in full Drives performance 97.6% packaging of quality systems and compares to 98.9% solutions service delivery for 2011 3FWFOVF CZ FOE NBSLFU 5 4 On time in full Drives performance 98.1% 1.
Tobacco 52.5 authentication of quality systems compares to 99.9% 2.
Document & 26.4 3 identity solutions and identity and service delivery for 2011 1 3.
Other 0.4 Customer Drives performance of 11.0% satisfaction quality systems and an 11.0% increase 2 customer service delivery in complaints complaints from 2011 LFZ JOJUJBUJWFT PX XF EP JU 8IP XF BSF BOE XIBU XF EP Our objective is to use our business Our Coated & Security Products division t Continue development of functional development philosophy and resource to comprises the following activities.
and creative packaging solutions identify innovation opportunities and translate t Invest in printing, coating and conversion these into novel, workable solutions for new Payne is a leading manufacturer of functional capability to support growth initiatives and existing customers.
We seek to leverage and creative packaging for consumer products t Build on investment in infrastructure and our well-invested, developing international and brands worldwide.
Our solutions deliver business development in 2012 to accelerate footprint to provide market-leading quality customer focused benets such as easy opening growth in authentication technology and service on a global basis, underpinned by and pack resealability, combined with brand t Acquire new customers for card and our motivated and well-trained employees.
communication and product protection through lm solutions, based on innovation and integrated creative design.
added value Payne manufactures a range of tapes, labels, t Extend reach of Speciality Tapes in Europe closures and seals which offer functional Payne Security is a leading supplier to the identity benets to packaged goods through providing and valuable document and the consumer easy opening and resealability.
Our products are packaging markets, providing a range of also the ideal medium to carry sophisticated authentication technologies, printed lm and branding and communication messages, in the card-based solutions.
form of printed images, text or data.
Additionally, we look to add value to our customers Payne and Payne Security together serve packaging through providing brand protection customers in over 100 markets from seven solutions, such as tamper evidence or manufacturing facilities in five countries.
authentication technologies, from Payne Security.
They are supported by an in-house design studio, an R&D facility and multi-million Payne Security provides security technologies pound print capabilities.
and innovations to governments and brand owners worldwide, to enable them to identify and secure valuable documents and products in the ght against counterfeiting.
Our offering comprises overt, covert and forensic technologies, including inks, lacquers, laminates, labels, tear tapes and threads.
32 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 3FWJFX PG 0QFSBUJPOT $PBUFE 4FDVSJUZ 1SPEVDUT DPOUJOVFE Investment inPDBUJPO 8BMFT state-of-the-art label printing press at Payne Cardiff In authentication and identity solutions, Adjusted operating profit increased 9.3% at These technologies and products have a wide underlying revenue growth ie, excluding Securit constant exchange to 14.9m, equating to a application including branded goods and and FractureCode was 15%.
During the year, 150bps decline in the margin: on a like-for-like national identity documents such as passports, we fullled more than one million packs for basis the margin was unchanged.
Our continued identity cards and visas.
Payne Security also the roll-out of the next generation Blue Badge focus on efficiency improvements such as offers a range of secure card solutions for contract in the UK, which we were awarded waste reduction, combined with other cost national schemes such as entitlement to free transport and parking and for the provision of at the end of 2011.
In addition, we were very reduction initiatives, was more than offset identity and entitlement within government proud to supply accreditation solutions to the by further investment in authentication agencies, such as universities and hospitals.
technologies and the initial dilutive impact from the acquisition of Securit.
PX XF QFSGPSNFE JO Following on from the Queens Award for Enterprise which we received in 2011, we were Undertaking value-creating M&A Continued innovation and investment honoured with further recognition for our During the year, we added to the existing support balanced, profitable growth innovation in 2012.
In particular, we were capabilities of our Payne Security personal Revenue increased 18.6% at constant exchange pleased to win an Asian Manufacturing Award identication products business with the to 85.3m.
Adjusting for the acquisition of 2012 in the Innovation Packaging Solution acquisition of Securit for a cash consideration Securit in February 2012 and the divestment of category for our Supastrip Variable Data Print of 6m.
UK-based Securit distributes desktop FractureCode in July 2011, like-for-like growth VDP tape.
This tape combines the latest in personal identication card systems, providing was 10.0%.
digital print technology with gravure printing, to printers, software and associated accessories, deliver over 500 million unique digitally printed and provides us with new opportunities in Revenue in tear tape was ahead 9%, and was codes together with a promotional message at attractive growth segments, such as access boosted by winning further business in Asia with the consumers ngertips.
It is suitable for use on control and membership.
The integration of a major multinational tobacco customer, as well many different exible pack styles, and has been Securit to date is in line with expectations, as successful new packaging and promotional successfully used by a number of leading with further consolidation expected in 2013. innovations in the wrapped food sector.
Growth multinational consumer goods companies.
in labels of 14% was driven by a strong result in the tobacco segment.
We were also proud to be part of the team together with Northgate Public Services and the Department for Transport which was given the accolade of IT Project Team of the Year in the Organisational Excellence category at the 2012 UK IT Industry Awards.
The award was presented for successfully implementing the new national IT system for the Blue Badge Improvement Service, which is now deployed by all 206 local authorities throughout England, Scotland and Wales.
Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Review of Operations 33.
BSLFU USFOET 1BDLBHJOH JT UIF OVNCFS Provision of total solutions Customers are increasingly seeking a partner POF NFEJVN UP DPNNVOJDBUF which can deliver a complete offering from UIF CSBOE design to delivery of the product.
Management estimates the value of the global market for pressure sensitive tear tapes, labels Key new product opportunities and security technologies at c. 3bn, with t Investment in technology, to develop annual growth ranging from 0-9% depending novel, value-added packaging and Over one million packs fullled for the next on the end-markets served.
authentication solutions generation Blue Badge t Functional packaging benets, such as contract in the UK Increasing consumer communication opening, closing and tamper evidence Packaging is increasingly used to communicate t Eco-friendly packaging solutions, such brand messages, and to engage with as closing and resealing consumers via promotions or competitions.
t Creative and secure design solutions, to provide enhanced communication Functionality and convenience and authentication opportunities of packaging t Complete card production and There is a growing demand for packaging fullment offering, to provide an which not only offers optimum product end-to-end solution protection, but is also easy for consumers to access.
Brand and identity protection and verication Brand owners and governmental bodies need to protect their brand assets and provide Improving operational excellence secure identication of goods and individuals.
and execution To support future growth opportunities for the Sustainability and waste reduction division, we completed a number of successful There is a growing need for resealable operational initiatives during the year.
At Payne packaging to reduce waste, as consumers Cardiff, we installed a state-of-the-art labels purchase larger pack sizes to increase value printing press which will allow us to deliver an for money.
even wider portfolio of high impact packaging solutions to our customers.
And we made further investment in authentication technologies and manufacturing capability of our Banbury, UK site.
Going forward, we are pleased that the Speciality Tapes activities of Duraco will also form part of In 2012, the Payne Cardiff facility secured OHSAS An Asian the Coated & Security Products division.
In addition, Manufacturing Award these two businesses together will allow for we were very pleased that Payne Security was 2012 presented for our synergies in development, manufacturing and awarded the coveted Intergraf CWA 15374:2005 innovative VDP tape distribution, as well as a stronger go to market certication as an accredited supplier to the secure proposition from a wider portfolio.
FY 2012 printing industry for both private and government comparatives for this new organisational customers, measured against a stringent set of structure are provided in note 30. criteria.
Details of the international accreditations held across the division are shown on page 47.
0VS SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT We were similarly pleased that four of our seven facilities achieved Gold status in the Filtrona Health As a business we believe in careful stewardship & Safety awards, up from two in 2011. of the environment in which we operate and embody this philosophy in our business strategy.
We continuously seek to monitor employee During the year, we continued to develop satisfaction by ensuring a high degree of sustained, long-term environmental management engagement with employees programmes affecting CO emission reduction, at all our locations.
We were, therefore, very 2 water consumption reduction, waste recycling, encouraged by the high response rate from across ecological impact and ongoing energy efficiency the division to the Group employee engagement improvements.
And we continued to make survey, in particular that 92% of employees further progress towards these objectives, consider the division as good to work for and that in particular delivering a further mid-teens 91% have a strong sense of commitment to the reduction on our water consumption.
business both of which results are considerably above the average of the total universe of companies which undertake such surveys.
34 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 3FWJFX PG 0QFSBUJPOT 'JMUFS 1SPEVDUT, FZ mOBODJBM IJHIMJHIUT 1 Revenue Operating margin m % 2008 187.5 2008 10.6 2009 202.9 2009 10.9 2010 2010 200.7 11.8 2011 208.0 2011 11.8 2012 2012 233.6 12.4 12.3% 60bps 1 Operating profit Revenue per employee m k 2008 19.8 2008 114.6 2009 22.1 2009 131.4 2010 2010 23.7 148.1 2011 24.5 2011 165.0 2012 2012 28.9 184.9 18.0% 12.1% Revenue growth 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Review of Operations 35 8IBU XF NFBTVSF 3FWFOVF CZ EFTUJOBUJPO Why we How we 1.
Asia 48.8 4 measure it have done 2.
Rest of World 16.7 Conversion costs Continued focus 26.9% 4.
North America 15.4 as percentage delivers financial an improvement of revenue performance from 28.5% in 2011 3 2 On time in full Demonstrates the 97.4% ability to meet an improvement from delivery demands 96% in 2011 4BMFT WPMVNF CZ UZQF Quality complaints Drives performance 3.0 1.
Monoacetate 48.5 4 per billion rods of quality systems complaints per billion 2.
Carbon 24.6 and service delivery rods, a decrease from 3.
Flavour 5.6 3 Waste Drives productivity 3.2% and the efficient use a reduction of material from 3.0% in 2011 2 LFZ JOJUJBUJWFT 8IP XF BSF BOE XIBU XF EP PX XF EP JU The Filter Products division is the world-leading Our objective is to develop value-creating t Increase innovation in special lters and independent provider of lter solutions to the partnerships with our customers.
We seek to grow the pipeline of proprietary projects, tobacco industry, and comprises the following leverage our long-standing experience, expertise to meet customer needs for products with business activities.
and insight to provide innovative solutions to greater marketing appeal brand differentiation and identity, as well as t Expand capacity to satisfy growing Our Filters business is the only global independent excellence in both manufacturing and service.
demand for innovative lters in supplier of lters.
Not only do we offer standard Our recognised ability to provide new valueEastern Europe and Asia lters, but as the leading supplier of special lters added products and services is key to the t Establish scientific Services as a full we offer innovative solutions that meet the divisions future growth, as market dynamics solution provider to the tobacco industry consumer-driven demands of the tobacco industry in the tobacco industry continue to evolve.
t Continue to benefit from ongoing trend against a backdrop of ongoing legislative changes.
to more specialised lters, while still Research in lters is carried out at the Filters offering attractive low cost propositions We also increasingly provide adjacent services Technology Centre in the UK, supported by three to the tobacco industry.
Our scientific Services regional development centres.
Together, they facility located in the UK was one of the first work closely with customers, to understand their independent externally accredited laboratories specic needs and to deliver solutions at a pace for the testing of cigarettes and lters, and has appropriate to local market conditions and over 20 years experience of providing analytical legislative requirements.
Our offering is further services to both independent and multinational enhanced by our ability to complement our customers.
Additionally, we offer a full bespoke customers own strengths and assets in a range for the design, packing and packaging of variety of tolling, or outsourced management, lters for roll your own RYO brands, relationship arrangements, as well as our providing an efficient and cost-effective solution growing adjacent services activities.
to delivering retail-ready product to the market.
We continuously upgrade our technology and The Filter Products division supplies over 700 footprint, to ensure we exceed our customers product specications to over 300 customers, expectations and remain at the forefront of including all the multinational tobacco companies.
Our exible global manufacturing We have nine manufacturing facilities in nine capability allows us to respond rapidly to countries, supported by a UK-based research market changes and customer demand for facility and three regional development centres.
surge volumes, while a consistent focus on 36 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 3FWJFX PG 0QFSBUJPOT 'JMUFS 1SPEVDUT DPOUJOVFE Our  &OHMBOE accredited scientific Services laboratory offers commercial and analytical testing, guidance and product solutions high standards of quality, cost control and access to their RYO lter tips.
At the same time, Improving operational excellence production efficiency act as further sources we continued to work closely with our customers and execution of competitive advantage.
to develop bespoke solutions tailored to their During the year, we signicantly expanded our specic needs, with such joint activity up over scientific Services FSS laboratory in Jarrow, PX XF QFSGPSNFE JO 20% during the year.
We support our future UK, with investment in new state-of-the-art innovation capabilities through ongoing machinery and equipment, and a doubling in Innovation and joint development activity intellectual property development, and eleven the number of technical staff.
As a result, FSS support balanced, profitable growth patent and trademark applications were has increased its capabilities and can now Revenue increased 16.9% at constant exchange led in 2012. provide customers with a complete service to 233.6m.
Underlying volumes were ahead of analytical and commercial testing, expert of the prior year, with significant value growth Adjusted operating profit rose 23.3% at constant guidance and innovative product solutions.
driven by the increase in special lters in all exchange to 28.9m, with the margin up 70bps.
The laboratory is also in the process of making geographic regions.
In FY 2012, Asia accounted Higher raw material and other input costs were a number of new testing methods available in for 56% of volumes FY 2011: 54%.
successfully mitigated by continued cost control, order to meet the updated US Food and Drug as well as quality enhancement initiatives and Administration requirements.
Over and above continued success for our productivity improvements.
previous innovations such as avoured capsules, In addition, we continued with our investment 2012 also saw the successful launch of six Undertaking value-adding M&A in equipment across our key operational sites, proprietary new products into the market.
Subsequent to the year end, we announced including taking delivery of new exible, high These included the Autograph lter the the formation of a joint venture in the UAE speed combiners.
This investment will contribute latest addition to our Icon range, and offering with BBM one of Indias leading producers to continued improvements in quality, efficiency customers high impact visual differentiation of tobacco products and by-products, as well and responsiveness to our customers.
At the possibilities for their brands as well as a as a leading cigarette exporter from India to same time we have successfully increased the Super Slim version of our clove-avoured Kretek manufacture lter products.
The joint venture in utilisation of existing production assets, thanks Aroma lter to meet the growing demand from which Filtrona will be a majority shareholder will to a number of internal initiatives aimed at the Indonesian market.
We also built on entail the construction of a new 29,000 sq.
Taken together, these our offering to the RYO segment, with the facility, and is expected to be fully operational operational improvements have resulted in a introduction of a Micro Slim lter in a Pop-aduring Q3 2013.
The formation of this joint five billion rod increase in the available annual Tip format and a new packaging concept in venture agreement with BBM strengthens our capacity of the division.
the Push-and-Slide box, to allow consumers easy presence in the growing Middle Eastern market which is witnessing a growing trend in the In response to the need to meet increased more specialised Super Slim, charcoal and demand from new business opportunities, avoured lters and underscores our investment in capacity at a number of sites is commitment to being a trusted partner to required.
The additional demand will result in our tobacco customers on a global basis.
future incremental revenue, although it is not expected to have a material impact on the FY 2013 results.
Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Review of Operations 37.
BSLFU USFOET 5IFSF JT BO JODSFBTJOH SPMF GPS mMUFS Consumer need Consumers are increasingly concerned JOOPWBUJPO JO BEESFTTJOH XJEFS with environmental matters, such as USFOET JO UIF UPCBDDP JOEVTUSZ sustainability and pollution, and the impact The global tobacco market is valued at c. of products which they purchase.
Such US$700bn, with broadly at cigarette retail needs are often unspoken but create volume growth.
challenges for the industry to supply Micro Slim RYO products which address such considerations.
Slim gets even Regulation slimmer, in the The tobacco industry is heavily regulated Cost and price growing roll your around the world on health grounds, with As the price of cigarettes has continued to own segment significant restrictions on the way in which increase, growth opportunities have been products can be marketed to consumers.
created for other industry segments including Legislation continues to evolve, such as the RYO and Other Tobacco Products, such as, current debate on plain packaging.
Illicit trade Key new product opportunities Counterfeiting of tobacco products is a t Lifestyle solutions eg, Slims Super Slims, significant and increasing challenge for low ultra low tar, eco ranges the industry, undermining brand value, t Brand-specic requirements, such as presenting a risk to consumers from low quality recessed lters goods and reducing tax revenues.
The illicit t Enhanced user experience, such as capsules trade accounts for approximately 10% of avoured thread and activated carbon duty-paid cigarette volumes and is estimated t Full bespoke service for RYO brands to be growing at c. 4% pa well ahead t Provision of scientific services of the overall industry.
Consumer engagement As per capita income rises particularly in eastern markets so lifestyles change and new 0VS SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT segments are created, with different consumer expectations and aspirations from the products We are committed to the environment and which they purchase.
As such, there is an its sustainability and, in seeking to secure increasing demand for new products to reect operational efficiencies and cost reductions, these changes.
the division focuses on the optimisation of energy usage and the development of new sustainable solutions.
Having introduced a division-wide system and been able to demonstrate improvement and accreditation in energy, in 2012 we again delivered a very strong reduction in both waste Employee development is a key commitment and CO emissions, while our energy use rose of the division, and a new talent management 2 by less than our revenue growth.
framework was introduced during the year.
Over and above our well established We were proud to receive Gold status in the management development and graduate Filtrona Health & Safety Awards for the fifth recruitment programmes, the framework is consecutive year at our ITC Filtrona India facility aimed at enhancing training, driving career and for the third year running in Jordan, with progression and ensuring robust succession a further two sites also gaining this accolade.
As a result, we were pleased with Combined with our comprehensive programmes the very high response rate of our employees in this area, the division has achieved key to the Group engagement survey, with 91% international accreditations across its facilities, considering their part of the business is good which are detailed on page 47.
Four of our to work for and 90% having a strong sense of sites hold Level 7 accreditation by IQRS, commitment both results signicantly higher an internationally recognised standard for than the norm for the total universe of business excellence.
companies which undertake such surveys.
38 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Management of Principal Risks Effective management of risk and opportunity is essential to the protection of Filtronas reputation and the achievement of sustainable shareholder value Risk indicators Vision 2015 No change in 2012 The management of risk underpins the Filtronas shortand long-term performance can Companys Vision 2015 strategy, focusing on be impacted by many risks and uncertainties, not the challenges which arise in the international all of which are within the Companys control.
Reduced risk in 2012 environment in which Filtrona conducts business and reecting the Companys appetite for risk in The Company is subject to the general risks and the delivery of its business objectives.
As such, uncertainties which impact other international Increased risk in 2012 risks are continuously monitored, associated organisations, including political instability in the action plans are reviewed, appropriate countries in which the Company operates and contingencies are provisioned and information sources raw materials, the impact of natural is reported through established management disasters and changes in general economic control procedures.
conditions, including currency and interest rate uctuations, tax regimes and raw material costs.
The Company seeks to continuously improve its risk management processes and developed new Detailed below are the principal risks and systems during 2012 which serve to enhance the uncertainties which the Board believes are Companys response to the risks inherent in its specic to Filtrona having regard to its strategic international business activities.
objectives, together with the Company risk management response thereto.
The details Filtrona recognises that the ability to monitor, provided are not exhaustive and do not purport assess and respond to business risks may provide to be a complete explanation of all potentially a competitive advantage.
Reporting within the relevant issues.
There may be other risks and Group is structured so that key issues are uncertainties which are unknown to the Board escalated through the management team and or which may not be deemed by the Board to ultimately to the Board if appropriate.
Each area be material at present but which could prove of the business is required to review its principal to be so.
areas of risk and uncertainty formally and regularly.
This is an ongoing process to ensure that there are clear and consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and implementing appropriate controls to manage identied risks.
