Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview OPERATING REVIEW detailed on page 28.
The selection of an A detailed review of the Groups Performance absolute measure across the whole Group, employment policy is set out in Corporate Continued growth was driven by demand from Responsibility on pages 52 to 53 which does not reflect changes in employee Fenners major markets: mining for ECS and numbers or hours worked, demonstrates our oil and gas and medical for AEP, but growth belief that everyone who works for Fenner Customers and suppliers was also seen through our distribution should return home in the same fit and From the large multinational oil, gas and channels into general industrial markets.
This healthy state in which they came to work.
mining companies to the smallest medical delivered a second year of significant revenue With significant commitment from all levels of start-up, across thousands of customers, growth for both divisions.
Not all end markets management and a focus on health and safety each Group operation ensures it is meeting its performed equally strongly with weakness through The Framework, it is disappointing to customers expectations.
Experienced sales experienced in the construction market in report a small increase in the number of lost teams maintain close contact with customers, particular.
Geographically, the Asia Pacific time incidents compared to the previous year.
providing feedback on those expectations and region saw the strongest growth followed by Delivering continuous improvement year-onensuring satisfactory actual performance.
Although ECS showed a slight year is challenging and, as our operations These qualitative indicators are increase in new project work, 69% of Group respond to increasing demand with higher complemented by quantitative measurements revenue was derived from the MRO output, additional working hours and new including customer surveys and on time in Maintenance and Repair Organisation and staff are required.
Whilst some operations service aftermarket with the remaining 31% are dependent on a small number of sourced from OEMs Original Equipment A detailed review of the Groups health customers, Fenners largest customer Manufacturers and new projects.
In general, and safety policy is set out in Corporate accounts for less than 5% of revenue.
growth rates eased as the year progressed.
Responsibility on pages 50 to 52 Fenner uses a wide range of materials, from Health and safety Employees thousands of tonnes of rubber compound to a The Group is absolutely committed to few hundred grammes of biomaterials, so our In 2012, our sales growth again outstripped ensuring that all employees can work safely operations work closely with selected our employee growth, pointing to the Group at all times.
This overriding commitment to suppliers to ensure that our customers reaping the benefits of its employee provide a safe and secure working benefit from the latest technical development and improving business environment extends to those employees of developments in materials and processes.
The average number of employees other companies working on our behalf as The majority of these relationships are in the increased by 422 in 2012 to 4,970, an increase well as to customers, visitors and neighbours normal course of business, ensuring quality, of 9%.
This increase largely occurred in the who may be affected by our activities.
continuity of supply and competitive first half of the year, with the majority of the The Group has continued to grow in 2012, both commercial terms.
Where appropriate, and new employees joining existing operations in organically and by acquisition.
That growth usually relating to technical developments, production and service roles.
After brings with it greater responsibilities and All our operations have processes that require enhanced expectations from our customers, the volatility of the previous year, in 2012 most high levels of proficiency and technical employees and neighbours.
Fenner promotes Fenner operations saw stable material prices expertise.
Some of those skills are not health and safety as a key element in the and improved availability.
Close cooperation available in the general workforce in every culture of each of its operations.
The Health & with established suppliers and active region.
Therefore, we have increased our Safety Management System Framework The development of new sources has ensured, and commitment to training and development.
Framework provides structure and guidance continues to ensure, continuity of supply, Fenner continues to benefit from a skilled and to all operations, irrespective of size, to consistent quality and technical leadership.
committed workforce in both our acquired and deliver continuous improvement within our existing operations.
We acknowledge the unique culture of autonomy with importance of our employees contribution to accountability.
Providing services at customer the performance of the Group.
facilities is a growing part of our business.
Often these customers demand sound health The productivity, and in the service operation and safety management systems.
For such the utilisation, of our employees is a key customers, The Framework, our health and factor to success.
Due to the diversity of our safety management systems and the operations, this is best measured by total associated training are a significant and sales per employee.
The sales per employee unique selling proposition.
graph on page 28 shows that this year productivity increased primarily due to those The most significant indicator of health and safety performance is the Lost Time Incident recruited in 2011 and 2012 becoming fully trained and productive.
Other factors behind Frequency Rate as detailed on page 28 which the 5% improvement include continued shows a continuing improving, downward trend because of improvements in our health efficiencies from ongoing capital investment and safety performance.
We also monitor the and other improvement initiatives such as six absolute number of lost time incidents as sigma programmes.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 14 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued Engineered Conveyor Solutions Revenue 593.4m Underlying operating profit 84.4m Employees 2,732 Manufacturing units Sales and service branches The ECS division, trading under the Fenner services, is tailored to suit each customers review, driven by record levels of coal and iron individual needs.
Although construction markets Dunlop, Fenner and Dunlop brand names, is a vary from a purely transactional relationship remained weak, growth in revenue of 16% was recognised leader in the global conveying to a full strategic partnership to reduce both spread across all regions.
The division offers a unique, conveyor downtime and total cost of the US coal sector slowed in April and May but comprehensive suite of products and services ownership.
Each type of product within the has improved steadily since.
The growth in which serve the conveying needs of mining, ECS portfolio provides benefits but the full sales of steelcord conveyor belting continued power generation and bulk handling markets.
value is only realised by the integrated offer, unabated throughout the year.
Margins These products and services, which include ECS value, illustrated below.
benefitted from improved manufacturing heavyweight ply, solid woven and steel cord efficiencies and exploitation of the capabilities The ECS division experienced positive trading conveyor belting backed-up with design, of the plant and machinery commissioned in conditions throughout most of the year under installation, monitoring and maintenance recent years.
Case Study UsFlex applications in waste - Dunlop An analysis of ECS revenue by markets served is on page 17 With some of the worlds biggest industrial players recognising the recycling industrys ECS value importance, the Netherlands based Dunlop Conveyor Belting is addressing the specific demands of waste handling.
Waste metal, ceramics, rock and timber destroy fabric and steel reinforced conveyor belts surprisingly quickly.
Household rubbish appears harmless but contains mineral and vegetable oils that wreck the toughest looking rubber belt in weeks.
Dunlops technical team developed bespoke belts which use cut resistant and oil resistant covers with proprietary UsFlex rip resistant fabric which have successfully extended belt life from weeks to months and even years.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 15 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview Tonnes million supplying engineered conveyor solutions for the design, manufacture and installation of Case Study Enlow Fork - Fenner Dunlop Americas high capacity conveyor systems for both surface and underground mining, with the During the year, Fenner Dunlop Americas capability to take projects from the initial dedicated a Life Cycle Management team to concept to the commissioned conveyor work on site at Consol Energys Enlow Fork system.
The acquisition is a significant Mine, one of the largest longwall coal mines development for the Fenner Dunlop in the world.
Daily interaction between the engineered conveyor solutions offering in team and the customers operational Australia, through which we are growing by personnel ensured that the full range of ECS strengthening our capabilities to effectively solutions were available and effectively manage the lifetime cost of our customers' deployed, particularly those from newly conveyors throughout the business cycle.
Helping Consol to minimise their total cost of Americas ownership benefits Fenner by supplying a Fenner Dunlop Americas built on the wider range of products and services for improvements in the previous financial year to projects like the 9km overland conveyor deliver record results for the second year in a system currently under construction.
Revenue growth was supported by improved operating efficiency arising from recent major capital investments.
In December 2011, Fenner acquired Allison performance of our Australian ECS Custom Fabrication, based in Western operations.
The medium to long-term In the second half, market sentiment Pennsylvania, which specialises in the design, forecasts for both of these commodities weakened in the coal mining segment, remains positive.
Revenue growth was led by engineering, machining and metal fabrication resulting in a decline in order rate which has the service and ancillary products which now of customised material handling equipment.
The record mild winter account for over half the sales in Australia: This acquisition strengthens Fenner Dunlops temperatures in the USA resulted in surplus belting sales also increased.
This sales mix engineered conveyor solutions capability to coal stockpile at power plants.
In addition, the will provide protection against slower belting help customers improve safety and reduce availability of low price natural gas and demand in any future environment and, when total cost of ownership, in both above and pressure on carbon emissions led to power combined with our regional branch below ground conveying applications.
We have producers switching from coal to natural gas.
distribution, provides real competitive continued to develop the ECS offering in North Coals share of power generation declined advantage.
America and Australia where product teams from 50% to a historically low 37%.
Over have been established to identify and promote recent months coal stocks have fallen and gas The new Kwinana press project is on target for product lines which are suitable for branch prices are rising.
Fenner Dunlop Americas is a completion in 2013.
Site preparation is now based selling.
Conveyor diagnostic product supplier and partner to many customers who complete and capital equipment has been systems continue to increase in importance, are financially strong and who are amongst despatched.
The new steel cord press is to be supporting both the ECS model and the sale the lowest cost producers of coal.
These sited alongside the existing press, which of premium products.
Systems are now customers are better protected from volume operated uninterrupted throughout the civil established and performing well in the UK, and margin pressures that have resulted in engineering phase.
The steel cord order book South America, North America, Africa and the closure of smaller, less efficient mines.
at the end of the 2012 fiscal year is twice as Australia.
high as at the previous year end.
The bulk materials segment remains soft, but Australia After the year end, in October 2012, Fenner therefore represents opportunities for growth Year-on-year growth continued in the in the future once housing construction exchanged contracts to acquire Australian Australian operations.
"Coal and iron ore Conveyor Engineering ""ACE""."
The returns to more normal historic levels.
Prices remain the main trading exports for the transaction is expected to complete at the end for commodities, including copper and iron country and the biggest drivers for the trading of November 2012.
ACE specialises in ore, mean that they remain relatively Coal price and production World coal demand 10000 250 12000 10000 200 8000 8000 OECD Pacific 150 6000 OECD Europe 6000 OECD North America Transition Economies 100 4000 4000 China Steam Coal Marker NW Europe India 50 2000 2000 World coal Africa production Other 0 0 0 Sept06 Sept07 Sept08 Sept09 Sept10 Sept11 Sept12 1980 2000 2009 2015 2020 2030 2035 Monthly average Year Source: The McCloskey Group and BP Source: International Energy Agency Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 16 US$ tonne Tonnes million Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued attractive prospects in Canadian, Mexican and South American markets.
Steel cord belting Case Study Natural gas - ECS China remains in strong demand and delivery lead times have been, and remain, extended.
When the ECS factory in Shanghai was built in Whilst diversification into new territories and 1997, the only reliable source of process market segments continues to reduce the energy was heavy fuel oil, later supplemented dependency on the coal mining industry, US with LPG.
A recently installed natural gas service operations are primarily focused on main gave ECS China the opportunity to coal mining, handling and coal fired power substantially reduce its environmental impact generation.
We remain positive about the by investing in new pipework and burners.
market demand for services, not least This investment has reduced carbon because the mining industry is facing a skills emissions by 1200 t per year and has almost shortage and therefore the recruitment, eliminated other serious pollutants.
In training and retention of skilled technicians is addition, reduced maintenance and lower fuel an increasing challenge.
Our Chilean costs provide a direct financial return.
This operations in Antofagasta and Santiago clean burn technology also allows for future primarily provide services to the copper developments such as flue gas heat recovery.
mining industry and have made significant gains in 2012 as well as generating conveyor belting sales throughout South America.
Soviet Union and benefited from robust in the year.
Uncertainty over mining mineral Europe demand from the Canadian potash market rights and political calls for nationalisation Based in Drachten in the Netherlands, Dunlop whilst maintaining market share in Western continues to delay new projects, which in turn Conveyor Belting serves European markets Europe.
Demand from the Indian public sector limits our opportunities in the short term, but and exports extensively.
Western European is growing, albeit slowly, which is we have begun to diversify away from our demand declined during the year but export supplemented by a developing private sector, dependence on South African coal.
markets in French Africa, South America and although the export markets remain a the Middle East continue to be strong, with significant and attractive market for our political instability in some of these markets Indian operation.
Our operation in China providing opportunities as well as risks.
exceeded expectations in the year under review: its largest customer returned to the Dunlop Conveyor Belting now has eight service outlets across Europe and one in market following destocking in the previous year and our programme to widen the North Africa, which not only generate local customer base saw early successes.
China service revenue, but also support customers locally, enhancing market share.
remains cost sensitive and, in the current environment, gaining full commercial Solid Woven recognition for the benefits of our technically The solid woven operations have performed superior product is challenging.
well this year, largely due to increased Despite labour unrest and a reduction in mine demand from both coal and potash producers, output, our South African operation has grown and, whilst the growth rate is currently in the year following market acceptance of our weakening, current demand appears to be local steel cord products.
The UK based solid woven from the rapid deterioration of the Rand early operation grew its market share in the former ECS revenue by markets served ECS revenue - OEM new customer capacity vs aftermarket 593m Revenue 71% of Fenner 593m Revenue 71% of Fenner 51% 2012 2012 64% 26% 14% COAL MINING BULK MATERIALS OEM REPLACEMENT New Customer Capacity & HANDLING Predominately PRODUCT 23% 22% aggregates Underground coal Mine expansions Worn out Power stations and ports Driven by construction New mines Damaged and infrastructure Fire resistance critical Typical belt life activity High intense use 3-5 years Driven by electricity demand OTHER MINING SERVICE Maintain Manage Predominately iron ore Install Replace Other hard rock mining Highly abrasive Emergency repair Monitor conveyor condition Driven by steel demand Detect conveyor faults Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 17 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview Advanced Engineered Products Revenue 237.2m Underlying operating profit 43.6m Employees 2,204 Manufacturing units Sales and service branches Operations within AEP provide high value added Medical, a leading developer and seals and other performance-critical products solutions to customers most challenging manufacturer of custom-engineered for pump, valve and compressor applications engineering problems using advanced biomedical textile structures for and continues to diversify into similar polymeric materials, expertise in application applications in the medical, semiconductor implantable medical devices, including design, effective manufacturing design skills processing and aerospace markets.
It has Prodesco, which provides a wide range of and timely delivery.
Expansion into further sophisticated industrial fabrics: and global operations with production plants in mission-critical applications is a key part of the Xeridiem, which develops and the UK, Germany, USA, China and Singapore AEP strategy.
The high added value, niche manufactures single use disposable and sales branches located in France, Italy, nature of the product range provides protection Australia, Canada and Brazil, with a branch devices: against the full effects of economic volatility.
In the year under review, Fenner Precision provides unique FAST continued to grow strongly through solutions to OEM system design wider geographical coverage and increased An analysis of AEP revenue by markets challenges including engineered rollers served is on page 20 market share.
The successful integration of and tyres, precision belts and pulleys and Transeals, the creation of an integrated custom moulded engineered polymer distribution system in Australia and the initial The AEP division is divided into five product products: benefits of aftermarket initiatives all group operations which are managed on a contributed to good strategic progress.
In Fenner Drives designs, manufactures and global basis.
These operations are detailed 2012, we increased our presence in China by sells an extensive range of bespoke below.
opening a new production facility in Suzhou, solutions for mechanical power Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies which continued our investments in the transmission and motion transfer comprises: performance-critical hydraulic aftermarket.
Other aftermarket initiatives applications: and seals for the global fluid power industry, continue: all of the sales branches now have James Dawson manufactures silicone and CNC machines to enable custom seals to be trading as Hallite: CDI Energy Products, which is focused on sealing solutions for EPDM speciality hoses for the diesel engine produced quickly, mobile engineers help the oil and gas markets: and EGC Critical and off-road equipment OEM market.
customers select the right seals and Components, which develops and supplies salesmen directly sell to the oil and gas fields.
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies bespoke products for process applications Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies After the year end, in September 2012, including electronics, pumps, valves, FAST manufactures performance-critical Norwegian Seals was acquired to enable sales compressors and aerospace applications: seals for mobile hydraulic equipment, mining to be developed to the Norwegian continental Solesis Medical Technologies, focused on and oil and gas extraction and exploration shelf and North Sea oil and gas markets.
Also North America, comprises Secant equipment.
FAST also produces high reliability in September 2012, American Industrial Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 18 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued outsourcing production and reducing internal product development costs and prefer to Case Study OEM design challenge - Fenner Precision acquire products that have successfully navigated the regulatory maze and been A leading global manufacturer of commercialised.
This strategy requires a surveillance equipment required a timing population of start-up companies with novel belt to provide smooth and accurate motion technologies in order to be successful.
The control of a security camera in a high population of such companies has been temperature environment without a cooling reducing due to the dearth of early stage system or even ventilation.
To avoid a costly financing from the private equity community.
redesign for the customer, Fenner A number of large medical device Precision's engineers worked with them to manufacturers have started their own develop a polyurethane belt that would venturing divisions to provide seed capital for perform at temperatures 25% higher than new ventures.
This has had the unexpected the standard product.
One more example of benefit of significantly increasing the quality of Fenners technical strength providing value the projects being worked on as only the best for customers.
Populations, especially in the West, continue to age and gain weight: these are both predictors of future medical device Plastics in Florida, USA was acquired to Secant Medical, based in Perkasie, consumption over the medium term.
For the broaden our precision machining capabilities Pennsylvania, manufactures textile components longer term, additional emphasis will need to for both CDI and EGC.
It also gives the for permanently implanted medical devices.
be placed on developing countries.
Xeridiem, based in Tucson, Arizona, operation an increased presence in the Fenner Precision manufactures complete, single use disposable medical equipment component market.
Designed to fit your needs - exactly!
is the devices that spend some time inside the human Investment continues in the new integrated IT promise Fenner Precision makes across its body.
Based on the findings of best practices product offering of bespoke belts, stretch system for the whole of FAST, which will research, Frost & Sullivan presented the 2012 bands, tyres and rollers for office equipment enhance our ability to serve aftermarket North American Enabling Technology Award in and paper handling.
In addition, Fenner customers effectively and will provide a Medical Implantable Textile Structures Design Precision produces composite mouldings in a platform for internet trading.
FAST continues Approach to Secant Medical, providing external wide range of materials and sizes for specialist to expand its global presence, maintaining its recognition of our leadership in this field.
engineering applications such as grout seals reputation for high quality products and In the year under review, Xeridiem experienced for offshore wind farms.
A single sales force selectively broadening its product range to rapid commoditisation of its heritage catheter focuses on the self service, ATM, digital satisfy new market opportunities.
Substantial price pressure was more printing and specialist engineering markets Solesis Medical Technologies than offset by the growth delivered by the throughout the world.
Products are then Fenner continues to invest for growth in its Secant product development pipeline, delivered by one of three factories in the USA existing medical operations as well as delivering overall revenue growth of 7%.
and the UK, supported by presences in searching for complementary acquisitions Shanghai and Singapore.
Medical device manufacturers increasingly under the brand umbrella Solesis Medical view their core competency as managing Fenner Precision continues to make good Technologies.
They mitigate risk by overall progress across a wide range of niche There are two operations in AEP which focus on the medical market, although other operations within the Group supply Case Study Hallite Suzhou components to the medical equipment markets.
Both Secant Medical and Xeridiem serve the Hallite is dedicated to providing the best medical device market using the same possible sealing solution to the maintenance business model: customers who have and repair market through strategically identified an unmet clinical need contract with located branches.
The latest of these either company to design a component or branches is in the Development Zone of product to meet that need.
Both operations Suzhou, China, offering international and are structured to make a profit on those Chinese companies in the Yangtze delta area development activities while retaining complete service with a comprehensive manufacturing rights should the customers stock of moulded seals complemented by product be commercialised.
Between them, CNC machines, to produce seals to nonthe operations are active in cardiology, standard designs: all seals are available in urology, orthopaedics, sports medicine, soft the shortest possible time frame.
The next tissue repair, gastroenterology, enteral branch is planned for India.
feeding, gynaecology, neurology plus general and bariatric surgery.
Both operations are focused on North America.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 19 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview markets by growing market share and growth at a higher rate than the underlying Acquired in early September 2012, Mandals is successfully introducing new products.
a leader in an area of reinforced polymer technology which complements our existing Fenner Drives James Dawson operations, particularly James Dawson.
Fenner Drives range of added value, Despite variations in both geographical and Based at the southern tip of Norway, Mandals innovative products is used to solve problems market segments, overall demand remained is a manufacturer of innovative lay-flat and in power transmission, motion control and steady for most of 2012, with a general speciality hoses for use in demanding package handling industries worldwide.
softening towards the end of the year.
applications in the agricultural, infrastructure, Stationary power generation equipment Fenner Drives brands such as PowerTwist link potable water and oil and gas markets around belt, Eagle polyurethane belting, B-LOC and performed strongly, followed by heavy trucks, the world.
with off road and construction weaker.
James Trantorque keyless bushing and T-MAX Dawson continued to focus on streamlining tensioners are well known and widely accepted in many of the worlds industrialised production and improving capability and efficiencies, including developing a new facility economies.
The year has seen limited market which will see all organic rubber growth in North America and new competitors manufacturing transferred into a modern and entering the market for some products which efficient environment over coming months.
has limited margins and growth.
However, Our technical expertise in reinforced silicone opportunities in South America have and EPDM remain key competitive compensated for weak European markets and advantages, with new products being growth opportunities remain, particularly in developed to address stricter emissions South America, the Middle East and Eastern standards and higher operating temperatures Europe.
Through investment in staff, for diesel engines.
equipment and IT, we continue to improve our product development which should deliver Case Study Tuff Breed - CDI Energy Products For over 30 years, CDI Energy Products has provided oil and gas customers with world class, custom, innovative, high performance seals and components.
From seals going 30,000 feet underground to valve seals in highly corrosive solutions, our knowledge of materials and manufacturing ensures success.
Tuff Breed well service packing products work with every abrasive, high pressure, high volume down hole application in exploration or production including enhanced oil recovery and hydraulic fracturing for gas.
Tuff Breed offers the fastest delivery times in the industry and our experts provide on-site training.
AEP revenue by markets served Oil & Gas Medical 20% 13% 237m Revenue 29% of Fenner 3% 2012 7% AUTOMATION MINING Belts & rollers Seals bushings Mining equipment ATMs Printing Roof supports Automation 15% 25% CONSTRUCTION 9% 6% Seals hoses belts Construction equipment GENERAL INDUSTRIAL Seals belts rollers hoses Tile, brick, lumber 2% processing equipment Alternative energy AGRICULTURE Green solutions Power transmission FLUID POWER TRANSPORTATION Motion control Seals Textiles seals hoses Industrial Aerospace Mobile Trucks Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 20
