Performance Operational review Secure solutions The secure solutions businesses provide a broad range of solutions to both commercial and government customers.
They use their risk management, security and sector expertise to encourage greater outsourcing of the security needs of commercial and government facilities in markets such as ports, airports, retail, financial institutions and the oil and gas sector, and for government departments such as justice, police, health, foreign affairs and border control.
Secure solutions accounted for 82% of group revenue and 76% of PBITA for the year ended 31December 2012.
Services The secure solutions segment covers a wide range of security services, including: Manned security services Trained and screened security officers Security systems Access control, CCTV, intruder alarms, re detection, video analytics and security and building systems integration technology Monitoring and response Key holding, mobile security patrol and response services and alarm receiving and services monitoring facilities Secure facilities services Integrated facilities services for entire sites or estates for commercial customers and governments Risk management and Risk management consultancy services including mine detection and consultancy services clearanceservices Electronic monitoring of Electronic tagging and monitoring of offenders at home or in the community offenders Police services Back office support functions for police forces, support for front line policing including the provision of custody suite services and forensic medical services Management of juvenile and Management of all aspects of a facility and those held within the facility similar adultcustody centres centres are also used for the detention of asylum applicants Prisoner escorting Transportation of prisoners and asylum applicants between courts, police stations and custody centres 32 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Contracts and relationships Key Performance Indicators G4S has a very diverse contract portfolio which is not dependent on any particular customer or sector.
The Turnover secure solutions duration of contracts varies from high prole annual m sporting events such as the tennis championships at Wimbledon and the Ryder Cup, to 25-year private prison 6,007 contracts.
However, even when the contract terms are 5,498 5,264 5,116 short, in practice many relationships become long term 4,325 and result in contracts being renewed year after year.
Thisis demonstrated in our customer retention rates which average above 90% across most regions.
2012 Secure solutions revenue by customer type 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 % 4% Consumers 3% Transport and logistics 5% Ports and airports Organic growth secure solutions % 5% Leisure and tourism 32% Major corporates and industrials 6% Retail 8.0 9% Private energy and utilities 5.1 2.8 9% Financial institutions 3.5 27% Government 8.6 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Strategy PBITA secure solutions We aim to: m t Use our expertise and geographic presence to differentiate our business 418 397 373 t Drive outsourcing and minimise commoditisation of 346 traditional security services 293 t Offer an integrated security solution to customers Key operational highlights t Continued strong growth in developing markets 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 t Excellent organic growth in North America commercial and UK Government sectors PBITA margin secure solutions % Risks and mitigation A full summary of key risks and mitigations can be found 7.2 7.1 7.0 6.8 6.8 in the risk assessment and management section on pages 46 and 47.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 and 2012 at constant 2012 exchange rates excluding the Olympic Games contract and adjusted for divestments and discontinued businesses.
20082010 as reported adjusted for divestment of US Government Solutions.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Performance Operational review Secure solutions continued G4S was recently granted a two-year extension on the 2012 performance Medway Youth Training Centre contract until March 2015.
G4S Integrated Services has been awarded its largest FM contract in the healthcare sector for the Pennine Acute The secure solutions business performed Hospitals NHS Trust in Greater Manchester and the Care well with excellent organic growth of & Justice Services business was awarded a contract to 8%, assisted by strong UK government, supply electronic monitoring equipment to the Ministry US commercial and developing markets of Justice in France.
The pipeline of UK Government outsourcing opportunities remains strong, particularly in growth.
Margins were down slightly at areas such as rehabilitation, facilities management, police 7.0% due to the effect of UK Government and health sectors.
The UK commercial business won extensions to contracts UK and Ireland with major corporates such as British Airways and Shell, There was excellent organic growth of 8% in the UK and the latter of which has awarded G4S security contracts at Ireland with the main growth drivers being the integrated 50 additional sites and seven new countries in 2012.
G4S services business, which provides facilities services to Utility Services also won a number of significant smart UK Government and a growing number of commercial meter installation and data management contracts for organisations, and the utilities services business which is British Gas and other major utility providers.
The pipeline consolidating its position as a leading meter reading and of new major commercial contracts remains strong in the smart meter installation business.
UK, particularly within the media and financial sectors.
Organic growth in the UK Government sector was 13% Trading conditions in Ireland remained challenging in 2012 and included major contract wins and extensions such as: but the bidding pipeline, especially in the area of security systems, looks encouraging for the remainder of the year.
t Total facilities management for the Ministry of Justice at more than 340 court buildings across the Midlands, Continental Europe Wales and the North of England which was mobilised in The Continental Europe region performed reasonably February 2012 against an uncertain economic backdrop.
Overall organic t The provision of transport and accommodation for growth was 2%.
The European parliament contract in Belgium ended in May 2012 but G4S Luxembourg asylum applicants for the UK Border Agency for two regions the Midlands and the East of England and was successful in winning the security contract for the European parliament in Luxembourg in April 2012. the North East, Yorkshire and Humberside which completed the transition from previous suppliers in Margins were down slightly due to challenging economic conditions throughout the region.
This is a significant achievement as it was a complex mobilisation involving multiple stakeholders a number of efficiency initiatives were implemented which reduced direct and overhead employee headcount t Outsourcing services for Lincolnshire Police the numbers by around 250, alongside a number of location first contract of its kind to be awarded by a British closures throughout Europe.
This will help support Police Authority.
This contract mobilised in April 2012 margins in Europe over the next 18 months.
and the transition has gone extremely smoothly with excellent service delivery and will result in savings of Revenues for the security systems business, which 28m over ten years as well as enabling investment in accounts for around 20% of Continental European secure new technologies.
The Lincolnshire contract includes a solutions revenues, were similar to the prior year.
framework agreement for ten other police forces and There were some notable strong performances in the G4S is continuing to have discussions with a number of region in Sweden, G4S won a secure solutions contract police forces regarding similar outsourcing propositions with AB Volvo from April 2012 for three years and the t The opening and ongoing management of the newest security systems business grew strongly.
In addition there and one of the largest prisons in the UK, HMP Oakwood were contract wins in Belgium, Norway, Finland, Austria which opened in April 2012 and which now holds over and Denmark for customers in the government, retail, 1,200 prisoners transportation and telecoms sectors.
The business in Greece has performed well despite the challenges of the G4S has been selected by the Department of Work & economic crisis and several new contracts have started Pensions to join only a handful of companies eligible to recently with organisations such as the US Embassy and compete to deliver contact centre services across the Hellenic Petroleum.
In addition, a five-year contract to provide electronic monitoring in Scotland starts in April this year and 34 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Organic growth in most Eastern European markets has overseas landmine clearance.
The group has announced it now stabilised to the low single-digit level overall, but has decided to divest the business to a parent able to add there have been declines in Hungary and the Czech or create more value than G4S is able to, being a foreign Republic offset by excellent growth in Ukraine and parent with limited control over the operations of the Uzbekistan.
A significant contract has been won with business and restricted access to the data required to run a major steel manufacturer in Ukraine and contracts the business successfully.
have also been won recently in Slovakia for companies insectors such as manufacturing, electronics and retail.
In Canada, the organic growth rate was more than 30% The group divested its businesses in Poland in July.
driven mainly by the CATSA aviation security contract which started on 1 November 2011.
The contract is for security at 21 airports in the Pacic region of Canada and North America has expected revenue of more than CAD$ 400m over Organic growth in North America was strong at 11%, the initial five-year term.
assisted by a strong performance in the US commercial business and the start-up of the CATSA aviation contract in Canada.
Margins were lower compared to the prior Developing markets year due to a decline in major infrastructure system In Developing markets, revenue growth was 15% and projects.
The US security systems business worked on organic growth was excellent at 10%, with margins a number of systems integration projects for Tampa maintained overall.
Airport, Iberdrola, and the Port of Tacoma and has a record order book representing more than 12 months Organic growth in Asia was 9% and margins were up from work in hand.
5.5% to 5.8% due to improved business performance in a number of countries.
There was strong organic revenue In the United States the commercial sector had its growth in Thailand, Philippines, China and Indonesia.
The strongest year on record with a continuing positive business in India, the largest market in the region for the outlook and a strong visible sales pipeline.
Recent group, has refocused its activity on high growth, higher contract awards have been in the technology, healthcare, margin contracts and achieved a good performance with distribution, chemical, manufacturing and retail sectors.
double-digit revenue growth and strongly improved G4S commenced the provision of security solutions for margins.
In China, a new joint venture has been awarded a major automotive company from January 2012 valued the groups first manned security licence in the province at $70m per annum for three years.
The groups largest of Zhejiang following a change in the law to allow foreign commercial contract with Bank of America was extended ownership of manned security companies.
The group until 2014 and G4S North America has been awarded plans to offer a premium security service to serve a secure solutions contract with Google for some of its its broad multinational customer base located in the locations in the United States and data centres in Belgium provinceand penetrate the substantial local Chinese and Finland.
The group exited Pakistan during October 2012.
Additional examples of major contract awards include: worldwide security services for GE building on a A manned security contract with the United Nations in long-standing service relationship and compliance Papua New Guinea started in August.
There was modest and investigations services for Gallagher Bassett, where revenue growth in Australia with recent wins including G4S will staff and manage the Special Investigations DP World and Bechtel and a new immigration contract Unit responsible for investigating fraudulent workers offsetting the loss of the Western Australia prisoner compensation claims.
transportation contract and there is positive growth momentum in Australia going into 2013.
The offender The group has already taken steps to mitigate the cost monitoring contract in New Zealand was extended to the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care end of 2013.
Act PPACA during 2013 and is evaluating the most effective way to mitigate the increase to our cost base In the Middle East, organic growth was 5% helped by thereafter.
Most of the health plans currently provided to double-digit growth rates in Lebanon and Egypt but this G4S employees already meet the current requirements of was offset by weakness in some systems businesses in the the PPACA and so it is not expected to have a significant region.
Margins improved compared to the prior year impact on US margins.
due to one-off government legislated payments made in Saudi Arabia in H1 2011.
Recent contract wins include an 2012 was a challenging year for the groups US electronic monitoring contract in Saudi Arabia and in UAE Government Solutions business as a result of a significant for the Abu Dhabi Educational Council and Dubai Airport.
reduction in US federal government spending in both the US domestic government sector and in contracts for G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Performance Operational review Secure solutions continued The group exited the US Embassy contract in Kabul, The Latin America and Caribbean region has performed Afghanistan in July.
well with organic growth of 14% and improved margins as a result of strong performances across most countries.
Africa performed strongly with organic growth of 9% particularly in Kenya, Morocco and DRC.
Margins were There have also been a number of strategic contract lower at 8.1%, due to contract losses in Nigeria however wins, for example in the financial services, government, the business appears to have stabilised there.
New mining and oil and gas sectors.
In September, the group contracts won or renewed are mainly in key strategic announced the extension of its presence in Brazil with sectors such as automotive, aviation, mining, oil and gas the acquisition of Vanguarda, a leading security solutions and foreign embassies, including the US embassy in the provider which provides G4S with a manned security Ivory Coast.
The current bidding pipeline in Africa is licence in Brazil.
The group was also successful in bidding very strong particularly in financial services, mining and for security systems contracts in Brazil, winning a embassies, with increasing numbers of both multi-country, significant contract with Telebras and a contract for the pan-African and larger scale bids.
36 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Nanet Vancouver Airport, Vancouver, Canada By providing airline passenger screening services, I help to ensure that the 17 million passengers who travel through Vancouver airport each year reach their destinations safely and securely.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Performance Operational review Cash solutions The cash solutions businesses manage cash primarily for financial institutions and retailers.
G4Ss detailed understanding of the cash cycle ensures that cash ismanaged efficiently in an economy, allowing G4Ss customers to focus on their core businesses.
Cash solutions accounted for 18% of group revenues and 24% ofgroup PBITA for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Services Cash solutions covers a wide range of services including: Cash transportation Secure transportation of cash using high security vehicles, fully screened and trained personnel and purpose-built technology to transport, protect, count and reconcile the cash to customer records Cash management Management of cash on behalf of financial institutions which includes cash transportation, the design, build and management of purpose-built high security cash centres, counting and reconciling cash, tness sorting of notes for use in ATM machines, counterfeit detection and removal and redistribution of cash to bank branches, ATMs and retail customers all managed within strict security guidelines and timescales in order to maximise the efficiency of the cash cycle.
Cash management is also used for counting and reconciling cash from non-financial institution customers Cash consulting Provision of consultancy services to central banks and commercial banks on overall cash management strategy, bank note production and security and all aspects of cash cycleefficiency ATM management Managing ATMs on behalf of banks, retailers and independent ATM providers including cash forecasting, cash transportation and reconciliation services, first-line maintenance and ATM engineering services Retail cash Provision of systems and hardware, such as CASH360, which provide an automated cash management office for retail sites to improve security of cash, electronic audit trails of takings and a real time view of retail cash balances Secure international Bespoke international transportation and insurance of currency, gems, precious metals and transportation of cash other valuables and valuables 38 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Contracts and relationships Key performance indicators The duration of contracts in the cash solutions service line vary, with most being on an annual basis and those Turnover cash solutions contracts requiring a higher capital intensity, such as cash m processing, being usually five years duration.
1,341 However, even when contract terms are short, in practice 1,289 1,290 1,252 1,193 many relationships become long term, rolling over from one year to the next.
This is demonstrated in our annual customer retention rates which average above 90% across most regions.
Key sectors 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 Cash solutions revenue by customer type % Organic growth cash solutions % 16% Other 2 3 1 5 20% Retail 13 64% Financial institutions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 PBITA cash solutions Strategy m We aim to: 152 151 135 t Play a key role in the management of the cash cycle on 134 132 behalf of central banks, commercial banks and retailers, allowing them to focus on their core business t Use our developed market cash cycle expertise and track record to encourage central bank and financial institution outsourcing in developing markets t Continue to implement innovative technology such as 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 CASH360 PBITA margin cash solutions Key operational highlights % t Continued strong performance in developing markets 11.7 11.3 11.2 t Co ntinued difficult economic environment of 10.5 10.5 low interest rates in developed markets t Improved margins in North America Risks and mitigation A full summary of the key risks and mitigations can be found in the risk assessment and management section on 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 pages 46 and47.
2011 and 2012 at constant 2012 exchange rates, excluding the Olympic Games contract and adjusted for divestments and discontinued businesses.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Performance Operational review Cash solutions continued North America 2012 performance In North America, the performance of the cash solutions business in Canada was improved through stronger alignment in key sectors with the Canadian secure The cash solutions business delivered solutions business in the first half of 2012.
This has resulted a solid performance overall with in contract awards and extensions with key customers in organic revenue growth of 3% despite the retail and financial services sectors.
the continuation of low interest rates Developing markets having a negative impact on developed Organic growth in Developing markets was good at markets growth opportunities.
Overall 10% and margins improved slightly overall due mainly margins were maintained at 10.5%, with to an improved performance in the Middle East cash solutions businesses.
In particular the businesses in Saudi improvements in North America and Arabia and UAE achieved an improved performance Developing markets margins offset by and excellent growth.
Strong margins were achieved the impact of contract phasing in the UK.
in HongKong, aided by successfully negotiating price increases with a number of key customers.
In Ecuador, three leading financial institutions Banco Bolivariano, Europe Banco Internacional and Produbanco have selected G4S Organic growth in Europe declined by 1%.
In the UK to provide cash-in-transit services to more than 250 bank and Ireland, revenues declined by 1% as a result of branches around the country.
With services set to begin the loss of two ATM contracts in the middle of 2011 in May 2013, the seven-year contract has an overall value which also impacted margins.
In South Africa, in January 2013, G4S acquired improve towards the end of the year as three major new Deposita, the South African market leader in cash devices contracts commenced and as a result of a cost reduction and related cash-in-transit, cash processing and insurance programme in Ireland.
The new contracts are for financial services for the retail sector.
The Deposita technology will institutions providing outsourcing of cash processing and broaden the G4S Cash360 technology offering especially cash machine replenishment and engineering at bank in other Developing markets.
The engineering is provided on a full 24 7 basis an industry first.
The outlook for 2013 is also positive with a solid pipeline of outsourcing contracts.
Outside the UK, margins improved through strong underlying business performance and cost cutting measures.
In Sweden, the cash solutions business was sold in February 2012.
Elsewhere in Continental Europe, organic growth was positive, helped by product development in the Netherlands, strong performances across all services in Belgium, and productivity improvements in Finland.
40 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Bart-Jan Nieuwegein, near Utrecht, Netherlands Each week I service more than 250 ATM machines across central Holland to make sure the one million people using them have round-theclock access to theircash.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
