16 16 Business review OperATIONAl revIeW reTAIl % of total revenue Revenue What we do Our Retail division comprises 482 branded destination pubs and restaurants and 472 unbranded but segmented 803.9m local pubs across Britain, appealing to a broad range ofthe population.
70.5% 14.3% 15.2% 13.1% We focus on providing the best value, service and quality to our customers to ensure that they want to return.
Food development continues to be important in both our destination and local pubs, as does expansion via new build opportunities and acquisitions.
Our brands Highlights at a glance lIke-FOr-lIke SAleS FOOD SAleS % OF TOTAl SAleS 3.6% 39% OperATINg prOFIT SITeS ACQuIreD 13.3% 51 Our growth and quality improvement Greene King Retail is our biggest and fastest growing strategy forGreene King Retail business, generating 71% of total revenue and 63% isbased on: ofgroup profit in the year, with three-year growth Driving industry-leading organic per annum of 9% and 8% respectively.
At the year end, sales growth through our focus on consistent value, service and quality there were 954 pubs, restaurants and hotels across delivery, alongside the development the UK, split between Destination Pubs for our of growth categories such as food, coffee, wine and rooms.
branded, food-led destinational sites and Local Pubs, for our unbranded, more wet-led community sites.
Maintaining investment levels in our leading brands, such as Hungry Allsites are either branded or clearly segmented Horse and Old English Inns OEI, bycustomer occasion.
and investing in upgrading our food provision and amenity in Local Pubs.
Acquiring additional sites from anumber of sources, including packages, single sites, new builds and transfers from Pub Partners.
Greene King plc Annual report 2012 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
greeneking eeneking.. co co. uk.
uk 17 17 Full year revenue was 803.9m, 13.1% ahead for9.95 offer in Loch Fyne Restaurants and LFL sales performance we estimate of last year, with revenue per pub rising 7.6% LFR continue to drive strong lunchtime anadditional seven points of NPS equates to to an average weekly turnover AWT of 16.4k.
anadditional one point of LFL sales growth.
This was generated equally between volume growth and price and But value is not just about price providing Another area of potential differentiation is sales mix improvement.
Again, we achieved excellent service and quality can deliver inthe quality of our people, our offers and LFL sales growth in our three main sales great value at premium prices too.
categories with drink LFL sales up 2.4%, food LFL sales up 5.6% and room LFL sales So, we are investing heavily in our Retail In a retail business, the quality of the people up 2.9%.
Food is now 39% of total sales, service proposition.
We believe there is a will ultimately determine the success of a120bps improvement on last year.
real opportunity for our pubs, restaurants thebusiness.
We have approaching 21,000 and hotels to differentiate themselves from employees across our Retail business now, Other growth categories also delivered strong their peers through industry-leading service many of whom are part-time.
Improving the growth: coffee sales, helped by the rollout of levels.
Excellent service will be rewarded quality and length of service of our teams Illy coffee, were up 20.1%: wine sales were while poor or inconsistent service will be isareal focus for Greene King Retail.
up 15.3%: and soft drink sales were up 15.2%.
punished particularly in an environment where loyalty to a brand is both harder In the year, we increased our investment Operating profit was 149.6m, 13.3% ahead toachieve and harder to hold onto.
inpeople to recruit and retain higher oflast year, with the operating margin in qualityretail managers and team members.
lineat 18.6%, despite significant duty and In Destination Pubs, we introduced tailored Our Discovery Apprentice scheme is the cost pressures.
service training programmes in all brands centrepiece of this programme and by the todrive customer experience improvements.
year end we had 1,549 apprentices in learning Around 9,000 employees were trained on and another 427 who had completed their Value, service and quality these programmes in the year.
In OEI, staff apprenticeship and were still with us.
This As the UK consumer is prepared to spend turnover fell and customer satisfaction equates to 12% of our Retail workforce.
Local money on everyday treats, the value of our improved.
Since launch, complaints are Pubs management induction programme won offers is critical to our continued success, down 10%, compliments are up 120% and the a NITA award and retail manager turnover whether it be in our premium high street NPS is up 32% pts.
Hungry Horse launched fell seven % pts.
We also increased the sites or our value locals.
In Local Pubs, we its Can you feel the Horse?
programme internal appointment rate to 69% across continue to offer known value item KVI leading to a 12% pts improvement in NPS, Greene King Retail.
pricing on main product lines.
For example, LFR is encouraging its chefs to serve we sold 8.1m pints of Carlsberg in the year, mealsdirect to customers and Belhaven has In addition, we made a step change in the ofwhich over 25% was at 1.99 or under.
increased the frequency of its mystery guest quality of our premium local food offering, InHungry Horse, we have kept entry price visits to align with the rest of the estate.
using learnings from Realpubs and Capital dishes low, starting at 3.99, while in Overall, NPS hit a record high of 53% for the Pub Company, while Illy coffee is now Cloverleaf, the small carvery option starts year, up 13% pts on the previous year.
Our two meals for 9.95 offer in there is a strong correlation between NPS awardfor the quality of its fish and chips.
OldEnglish Inns OEI and two courses KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AVERAGE NO.
indd 17 25 07 2012 10:54:53 18 18 Business review OperATIONAl revIeW CONTINueD almost 4% cover growth in the year, with below Value, service and quality continued inCrouch End and the Black Lion in inflation price and mix improvements of 1.7%.
WestHampstead to the Realpubs model Finally, outside of acquiring new sites, we spent 65.0m on repairing, maintaining and and we have seen AWT uplifts of 156% To offset this pricing policy and protect and135% respectively.
improving the quality of our Retail estate.
margins, we have increased our purchasing 27.0m of this was expansionary capital, power through bringing Belhaven pubs and splitequally across Destination Pubs and Digital Local Pubs.
This was invested in 149 sites, Cloverleaf into our main food distribution We have significantly increased our investment contract, and we have used our rising or16% of the estate, and achieved an in improving our digital platform over the EBITDA ROI of 27.7%.
skillbase in the team to further engineer last twelve months.
We are now seeing over ourmenus.
100k website hits per week, with a 44% increase in the year, and a 270% increase via Food Branded and segmented estate mobile devices.
We have introduced online The eating out market is a significant long-term In Greene King Retail, we only operate either reservation bookings into LFR, which already growth opportunity for Greene King Retail.
branded sites or sites clearly segmented generate 4% of covers, and we have launched Ourfood sales were over 300m in the year, bycustomer occasion and demographics.
facebook pages across much of our Retail estate.
stillless than 1% of the fragmented, growing 1 Fully branded pubs, restaurants and hotels In Local Pubs, we have already reached around UKeating out market worth around 42bn.
represent 41% of our Retail estate, with our 300 fans per pub.
We have seen a 61% increase The pub sector is growing its share of this leading brand, Hungry Horse, up to 180 sites in our email database following a number of market for example, the value of the branded at the year end.
This brand has doubled in size highly targeted promotions across the estate, pub food sector grew 3.6% in 2011, ahead of in four years and we will continue to invest among the one million emails we send out each theoverall eating out market growth rate.
in the brand going forward, particularly in month.
The open rate on these emails is 30%.
the current consumer environment, but also We are also trialling loyalty card schemes Greene King Retail outperformed the pubs due to the significant growth opportunities covering about 25% of our Retail estate.
Total food sales growth was 16.8%, for the brand across the UK.
Our other main improving foods share of our total sales Retail brands are Old English Inns 96 sites, to39%, with LFL food sales growth of 5.6%.
Expansion Loch Fyne Restaurants 42 sites and Eating Both Destination Pubs and Local Pubs delivered We remain on track to deliver our target of 1,100 Inn 25 sites.
strong growth, with food sales growing its sites as part of our Retail expansion strategy.
share of total sales in Local Pubs from 20.5% In the year, we acquired or transferred in Our Local Pubs estate has been re-segmented to 23.5%.
51sites, but disposed of 12 non-core sites, following the acquisitions of Realpubs taking the year-end estate to 954 pubs, andCapital Pub Company to create the Our strategy is to broaden the appeal of our restaurants and hotels.
On average the number Metropolitan division within Local Pubs.
food offers to drive cover growth, alongside of sites rose 5.2% to 938.
Of those 51 new sites, Weexpect this division to consist of a price and mix improvements to help offset 44 were single site or package acquisitions, annual cost inflation.
minimum of 70-80 premium, urban sites, including 33 in the Capital Pub Company mainly, but not exclusively, in London.
This acquisition, two were new build sites and five To achieve this we have introduced lower estate will be made up of the two acquired were transfers from Pub Partners.
In addition, estates and 25-35 Greene King conversions calorie dishes, we have brought in takeaway we exchanged or completed on 16 further options and we have continued to launch into either the Realpubs or the Capital Pub sites, of which 12 were brownfield Company operating model.
We have already innovative new menu items such as fish orgreenfield opportunities.
This helped to drive converted two sites the Maynard Arms 1 Allegra Strategies.
A key element of our Retail strategy is to develop growth categories such as food, wine and coffee: LFL food sales were up 5.6% and food now accounts for 39% of total sales: wine sales were up 15.3%: and coffee sales, helped by the rollout of Illy coffee, wereup 20.1%.
uk 19 19 pub pArTNerS % of total revenue What we do Revenue Pub Partners is responsible for letting our 1,380 tenanted, franchised and leased pubs across Britain and aims toensure 162.7m that each pub has the right licensee to operate it, on the right agreement, with the right offer.
-2.2% 70.5% 14.3% As well as standar 15.2 d tenancy agr % eements, we also operate innovative new franchise-style agreements for our Meet & Eat and Local Hero pubs.
Value, service and quality contracts with licensees help us ensure that all our pubs provide a good customer offer.
Highlights at a glance SITeS ON SubSTANTIve MeeT & eAT SITeS AgreeMeNTS 98% 29 SITeS WITh AN eleMeNT lICeNSee SuppOrT per pub OF OFFer INFlueNCe 27% -14% Our agreements Horizon lease agreement Touchstone tenancy agreement Meet & Eat franchise agreement Touchstone tenancy agreement Local Hero franchise-style Access tenancy agreement agreement As a result of this focused Pub Partners is responsible for our tenanted, leased strategy, we have segmented and franchised pub operations.
This segment of the ourestate as follows: market has been under most pressure from trading A core estate of 900 sites operated conditions over the last five years, post the under traditional tenancies and leases.
These require less overhead introduction of the smoking ban and through the support and are highly cash recession.
There are too many lifestyle licensees generative and capable of operating in the sector and too many pubs with delivering consistent EBITDA per pub growth.
insufficient offer and amenity quality.
An innovation estate of 300 sites operated under new agreement Our aim is to build the highest quality, most customerstyles and with enhanced influence focused non-managed pub estate in the UK.
This will be over the customer offer.
achieved by recruiting and retaining the best licensees, A disposal estate, currently delivering industry-leading agreement innovation, comprising around 200 sites.
These sites will not generate taking greater control of the customer offer and sufficient and sustainable profit proactively disposing of the estate tail.
tobe shared equitably between Pub Partners and its licensees.
Business review 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
isdelivering a resilient performance as we key licensee health measures: there were just 29 Wehad 29 Meet & Eat sites trading at the year continue to reposition it for a sustainably temporary agreements at the year end, or 2.1% end, having transferred two to Greene King profitable and cash generative future.
of our trading pubs, the lowest recorded level Retail.
AWT has risen 150% to 8k per week since 2003: there were five closed pubs for while annual franchisee earnings are ontarget In the year, Pub Partners achieved revenue of reopening and the number of licensees on at c. 40k.
cashwith order was 20% lower than last year.
Beer volume per pub was marginally behind last We have also developed Local Hero.
This is year while rental income per pub was ahead.
a retail solution for wet-led community pubs Agreements and licensee support EBITDA was 80.2m, down 2.9%, although which have lower opportunities to expand We also aim to increase the level of influence average EBITDA per pub was up 3.8%.
The offer is centred on cask ale, over, and control of, the consumer offer in EBITDA in the core estate was up 0.2% and selling a minimum of six at any time, split ourpubs.
At the more basic level, we provide total LFL EBITDA was down 0.3%.
Operating 50 50 between Greene King brands and price support to over 300 sites via Business profit was 72.2m, 3.1% lower than last year on those from local micro-breweries.
The food Builder and Love Your Local.
In Scotland, amargin 40bps lower, impacted by the rollout offer is created in conjunction with our food volumes were ahead of last year through of our franchised model.
development team and is focused on local specific brand price support.
The up-front investment from Pub Partners has achieved much in the year: both Pub Partners and the licensee is lower All price support is agreed in conjunction ithas successfully integrated the Belhaven than Meet & Eat, while licensee earnings withvalue, service and quality contracts with tenanted and leased estate, with no impact on arec.
licensees to improve the value our licensees performance: it has delivered strong returns can provide to their customers, to raise onits capital investment: it has seen twelve service standards towards those we achieve Disposal programme Business Development Managers achieve their in Greene King Retail, and to try to impact We continue to make excellent progress Diploma in Multi-Site Leadership: and it has on the quality of the offer and amenity in the onour disposal programme.
In the year we launched BarGains, a new buying club for pubs.
We have also provided new correx disposed of 103 non-core sites.
We therefore licensees, utilising Greene Kings scale signs outside around 800 sites within the had 1,380 trading sites at the end of the year, purchasing advantages.
Overall, despite a greater number down from almost 1,700 four years ago.
We ofpubs operating with support, the value continue to target a reduced estate of around Recruitment and retention ofour licensee support per pub fell 14%.
We believe this is the The most important element of the tenanted, right strategy to pursue for the long-term leased and franchised business model is the We also have two franchise-style agreements.
benefit of the company and its shareholders recruitment and retention of the best licensees.
The franchise model allows us to develop although in the short term it does hold back Our recruitment process is rigorous, including brands for Pub Partners pubs to utilise, Pub Partners profitability.
In the year, Operating Director sign-off of all new licensees EBITDA of c. 1m was lost due to declining supported by our purchasing scale and Retail and the completion of seven mandatory training experience.
Meet & Eat was launched at trade and income at these pubs during the courses before taking a pub.
Licensee tenure has disposal process and we anticipate a slightly theBritish Franchise Association annual improved again and is now just short of four exhibition in September.
It is a food, drink, higher level in the new financial year.
The improved quality of our licensees service and entertainment package for the KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AVERAGE NO.
uk 21 21 breWINg & brANDS % of total revenue What we do Revenue Brewing & Brands is responsible for brewing, marketing and distributing our wide range of award-winning craft ales, 173.8m including the no.
1 cask beer in the UK Greene King IPA, the no.
1 premium ale in the UK Old Speckled Hen, the no.
1 Scottish ale Belhaven Best and the no.
We operate from two breweries, one in England and onein Scotland, to optimise our production efficiencies.
This, combined with our efficient route to market, enables us to undertake industry-leading investment in our Our brands brands, such as our new national TV campaign for Greene King IPA.
Highlights at a glance INveSTMeNT OWN-breWeD beerS IN brANDS up OuTperFOrMeD Ale MArkeT by 7.2% 4.6% greeNe kINg IpA SuCCeSSFul relAuNCheD NeW prODuCT DevelOpMeNT As a result, Greene King is the no.
1 Our Brewing & Brands division is responsible for cask ale brewer in the UK, theno.
1 brewing, distributing, marketing and selling the premium ale brewer in the UK 1 andthe no.
2 ale brewer in the UK UKs leading portfolio of ale brands.
Our strategy witheach of its core brands leading isto utilise the most efficient operating model in the their categories: industry to fund industry-leading investment in our Greene King IPA is the UKs no.
1 core ale brands to make them category leaders.
is supported by a passion for excellence in product Old Speckled Hen is the UKs no.
1 quality and customer service to differentiate 1 premium ale brand.
Brewing & Brands from other brewers.
Belhaven Best is Scotlands no.
1 CGA Brand Index MAT to 17 03 12, NielsenScantrack MAT to 28 04 12.
2 CGA Brand Index MAT to 17 03 12. Business review 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
indd 21 25 07 2012 10:55:21 19.0 20.0 20.2 33.0 33.1 31.8 38.4 38.3 37.6 173.8 165.6 157.7 22 22 Business review OperATIONAl revIeW CONTINueD Innovation has been an important part of the Brewing & Brands business during the year: Old Golden Hen was the most successful bottled ale launched into the off-trade in 2011: London Glory saw 86% volume growth in the year:and we have launched a Scottish stout, Belhaven Black.
1 In an ale market down 5.3%, our core ale shop and visitor centre and we have again Brand innovation brands were down 0.7%.
Second half volume won numerous awards both for our brands We continue to invest in innovation decline was driven by a more competitive and our breweries.
withinBrewing & Brands: environment in Scotland, price increases, particularly in Take Home, and more difficult Core ale brands As part of the Greene IPA re-launch, comparatives.
However, in the year we saw weintroduced Greene King IPA Gold Towards the end of the year, we relaunched strong growth in Export, Take Home and Greene King IPA via a 4minvestment, andReserve.
Free Trade, and in our own Retail estate.
spread over twelve months, in our Old Golden Hen was the most successful Total volume, including third party drink sales, Craftedfor the Moment campaign.
bottled ale launch into the off-trade in was up 8.1% leading to revenue up 5.0% to Earlyconsumer reaction and demand 2011 and accounted for 18% of all bottled 173.8m.
Operating profit was 33.0m, down hasbeen very encouraging.
2 ale growth in the year to April 2012.
The operating margin fell 100bps, driven Old Speckled Hen had another strong by channel and product mix, together with London Glory, ahead of the Jubilee and year.
The brand has driven our strong inflationary cost pressures, particularly the Olympics, achieved 86% volume growth.
performance in Take Home and Export.
In Scotland, we launched Belhaven Black, Hen family volume growth in the year a Scottish stout, which has seen on-trade was4.7%.
Alongside a marketing and innovation installations ahead of schedule.
investment increase of 7.2% in our core In a more competitive market, Belhaven 1 BBPA.
aleportfolio, we have launched our first brands continued to perform well, achieving apprenticeship scheme with 18 apprentices 2 AC Nielsen MAT value to 29 4 12. volume growth of 3.9%, with Belhaven already within the business, we have invested Best winning Marketing Strategy of the 850k in upgrading and extending the capacity Year at the Scottish Business Awards.
