28 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 opEratIng rEvIEw uk & IrEland % of group nEt fEEs 31% nEt fEEs 225.3m opEratIng pErformancE 1 year ended 30 june In s million 2012 2011 Actual growth LFLgrowth Net fees 225.3 241.7 7 % 7 % 2 Operating profit 6.5 3.6 282 % 282 % Conversion rate 2.9 % 1.5% 3 Period-end consultant headcount 1,934 2,158 10 % Division as % of Group net fees 31% 36% 2012 hIghlIghts lookIng forward Net fees decreased by 7% as the conditions became more Capitalise on pockets of growth and opportunity to deliver net challenging through the year fee growth Private-sector net fees decreased by 6%, public-sector Continue to drive consultant productivity through enhanced decreased by 8% training and development and exploiting front-office systems 3 Consultant headcount reduced by 10% Optimise efficiency benefits of the new back-office systems Operating loss of 6.5 million, financial performance stable Continue to review all aspects of our UK cost base to defend first half versus second half financial performance Cost-saving initiatives delivered, protecting the sequential financial performance of the business in the second half nEt fEEs by rEgIon % nEt fEEs by spEcIalIsm % 8 19 31 32 76% 59% 17 prIvatE tEmporary 8 9 15 24% 41% 17 publIc sEctor pErmanEnt 16 26 London home Counties South West & Wales accountancy & Finance Construction & Property Education north & Scotland midlands & East anglia ireland 2% Banking iT Other 29 directors report business review morE dIffIcult prIvatE sEctor: tough but stablE UK financial performance was negatively affected as a result of these publIc sEctor more challenging market conditions.
However, despite the fact that In the United Kingdom & Ireland, net fees decreased by 7% to net fees in the second half were 6% lower than those in the first half, 225.3 million, with an operating loss of 6.5 million.
Net fees the successful implementation of a series of cost-saving initiatives fell by 8% in the permanent placement business and by 6% meant that the sequential financial performance of the business in in the temporary placement business, and are now down 50% the second half broadly reflected that of the first half.
The various versus peak levels.
cost-reduction programmes incurred one-off costs of 5.8 million, which were offset by a 6.0 million curtailment gain on the closure Trading conditions in the UK have been tough and became of the UK defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual at the increasingly difficult as the year progressed.
In our UK private-sector end of the year.
business, net fees declined by 6%.
Markets were particularly difficult 3 in our Banking and City-related specialisms, but as the year progressed Consultant headcount in the division declined 10% during the conditions became tougher across much of the market as confidence year primarily through natural attrition, as we reacted to changes amongst candidates and clients was negatively impacted by the in market conditions to defend the financial performance of the worsening economic conditions.
We continue to review all aspects of our UK cost base, which we have already reduced by circa 30% from peak levels, with Our public-sector business, which represented 24% of UK net fees, particular emphasis on overhead and back-office support costs.
faced tough but stable market conditions throughout the year, with At the same time, our focus is on growing market share and taking net fees decreasing by 8%.
We continue to expect this business to full advantage of those segments of the UK recruitment market remain broadly stable at these subdued levels in the short term.
which continue to present revenue growth opportunities.
In Ireland, our business performed well delivering excellent net fee 1 growth of 30%.
hays In actIon: dElIvErIng for clIEnts In thE uk Many businesses in the UK continue to thrive despite the more difficult economic Hays source highconditions.
We have many clients in highly quality candidates technical industries, where the demand for skills and experience is high, but the number across our niche of available candidates is limited.
business areas Having built a deep relationship with Bentley, our team is able to fully understand their specific challenges in sourcing high-quality, skilled people, and solve them using Hays network Bentley work closely with Hays to source high-quality candidates across our niche business areas including Finance, Procurement and IT.
For example, when setting up a new company-wide Programme Management Office it was important to find the rightcandidates for such a specialist area.
Hays supported us byworking hard to source candidates with exactly the right skills and requirements.
Emma haslam Strategic PMO Manager Bentley Motors Ltd 1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at constant currency.
2 Continuing activities only, before exceptional items.
3 C onsultant headcount is shown on a closing basis and the change in consultants is comparing 30 June 2012 with 30 June 2011.
