P r o D d & u R c E g e t x l d r p o o a n b h f a h a t a f n s l g e d f t y i o e n r i n e g o k n r r g t o p a t g s l o r i M o f u n n o r t h o t c p e r T i n t Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 14 Operating Review Pricing leverage Business Strategy viewed as one of the building blocks in The key elements of the Groups business delivering a strong financial performance.
strategy to deliver long-term shareholder value remain: Hunting Energy Services To deliver both acquisitive and organic Hunting Energy Services manufactures growth across all of the Groups core and distributes high quality precision operations.
engineered products and components To invest and develop the business that enable the extraction of oil and gas.
platforms to augment: Our customers include international Proprietary products and services: energy companies, national oil with underlying profit from continuing Increased market share strength: companies and mid to large oil services operations increasing in the year to 45.7m 2011 28.5m.
Reported profit Enlarged global footprint: and groups.
Hunting continues to position its Capture of synergies from the technical expertise and operating from continuing operations was 40.6m opportunities thus created.
footprint to meet the requirements of 2011 20.7m.
these customers who are developing The division operates globally and Underpinning these strategic objectives increasingly complex energy resources is a commitment to manufacture and and operating in ever increasingly comprises six business areas: deliver the highest quality products and challenging conditions and locations.
Premium Connections, Drilling Tools, services with a reputation for reliability Oil Country Tubular Goods OCTG, Trenchless, Advanced Manufacturing and on time delivery under the During 2012 Hunting Energy Services Hunting brand.
reported a 38% increase in revenue Group and Hunting Specialty.
to 793.4m 2011 574.6m and a Business Model 63% increase in underlying profit from Premium Connections Huntings Premium Connections The key features of the Groups business continuing operations to 126.7m 2011 model which seeks to deliver its strategic 77.6m.
Reported profit from continuing business has delivered an excellent result objectives are: operations was 91.0m 2011 49.4m.
in the year, with demand supported A decentralised management structure by shale related activity and increasing global offshore drilling.
Natural gas allowing local management to identify This growth has been driven by a full and react to customer or local market year contribution from the acquisitions programmes in North America slowed requirements.
made in 2011, sustained onshore drilling during the year impacting demand Close monitoring, support and activity in North America, increased in the Marcellus, Haynesville and East Texas gas-prone shale basins.
The direction from the centre.
drilling in the Gulf of Mexico where rig Short chains of command allowing counts have now returned to pre-2010 switch to liquids-focused drilling for faster decision making.
levels, and a general improvement in by many operators helped offset some of Framework of controls with international rig counts particularly in the the decline in momentum, as projects continued within the Bakken, Eagle Ford discretionary limits and powers for North Sea where rigs have recovered local management.
from the historic lows seen in 2011. and Williston shale areas.
Further to this Flexible cost structures which can onshore activity, renewed drilling in the adapt to market conditions.
Well Construction Gulf of Mexico also supported demand for Huntings connections product lines.
Common standards for quality, health Huntings Well Construction division and safety across global operations.
includes businesses that are positioned in In the year, sales of Huntings proprietary the initial drilling and construction phase Annular Pressure Release Systems Maintaining high operational standards of the wellbore.
This division reported increased compared to 2011, with sales to customers globally.
across all of the Groups activities is revenue of 279.3m 2011 194.5m, Segmental Results The Group reports through a divisional structure arranged into the following operating segments: 2012 2011 Profit from Profit from Revenue operations Revenue operations m Margin m m Margin m Hunting Energy Services Well Construction 279.3 45.7 16% 194.5 28.5 15% Well Completion 457.4 74.1 16% 327.2 41.2 13% Well Intervention 56.7 6.9 12% 52.9 7.9 15% 793.4 126.7 16% 574.6 77.6 14% Other Activities Exploration and Production 4.9 0.5 10% 8.2 1.7 21% Gibson Shipbrokers 27.5 1.6 6% 26.0 1.7 7% Group 825.8 128.8 16% 608.8 81.0 13% Amortisation and exceptional items 42.9 40.0 Group profit from continuing operations 85.9 41.0 g n n s i o s r P i e e t r C v a n a i o l v a i p e s d n t o a d u n u u d d r, c d s n b c i t i t i n c s u n g u d w, s g t s d n e s v o y o a e a n n l r m y r u p e g e v e e r y i o t r g r c i l a s a e e t o r s e g s n, i r h e p t c o e n r t I P Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information H Hu un nt tin ing P g PL LC C A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 12 2 15 15 Product Excellence Hunting undertakes high precision Hole drilling, trepanning and boring machining to extremely close diameters vary from 0.05in to 12in tolerances for components in the in lengths up to 32ft.
This frequently global MWD LWD industry.
involves exotic and expensive nickel or titanium alloys.
Critical service applications include prototype, first pass specialist production and delivery of products to exacting requirements.
This requires dedication, innovation and exemplary quality assurance.
Quality assurance of the highest calibre Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 16 Creative Solutions The Group provides an innovative and complete service throughout the tubular cycle.
Sales, management of pipe and stock inventory are combined with full capability for threading premium connections and accessories.
State of the art handling facilities have been built to operate 24 7 to fulfill exacting customers just-in-time needs.
Hunting Energys world leading pipe management facility in Fordoun, Scotland.
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 17 Operating Review continued Extreme close tolerance machining.
Drilling Tools Advanced Manufacturing Group While the Groups Drilling Tools The businesses within the Advanced Manufacturing Group have reported business has delivered its best result excellent results during 2012, with Hunting since 2008, the unit has experienced a volatile year, as the industry moved from Dearborn and Hunting Innova both gas to liquids-focused shale regions.
delivering record results driven by strong demand for MWD LWD tools.
As the effects of this shift across North America were realised, management responded by redeploying people and Hunting Innova manufactures and its mud motor fleet to the busier regions, assembles printed circuit boards which are utilised in MWD LWD measuring tools.
which included the opening of a new In the year, Hunting Innova continued to facility in Williston, North Dakota, to service the demand from the Bakken attract new customers which helped oil shale play.
Management have also deliver record revenues and income.
Plans to develop new markets for the units initiated Lean Manufacturing protocols In-house training and development.
MWD LWD tools include the establishing across a number of the units facilities which will contribute to further of a sales and manufacturing presence in efficiencies going forward.
Huntings Asia Pacific in the coming year.
Drilling Tools are now recognised as Hunting Dearborn manufactures the industry leaders with equipment regularly being utilised to drill lateral precision engineered housings for MWD sections of a wellbore in excess of LWD tools.
A programme to expand the facility was completed in the first half of 10,000 feet during a single drilling cycle.
the year which will see improved lead OCTG times for its specialist product lines.
Huntings OCTG business includes casing In the year, the Advanced products and management services Manufacturing Group made good for customers.
The Group has key relationships with steel manufacturers progress with its sole supplier concept, to facilitate just-in-time logistics.
combining the capabilities of Hunting Innova, Hunting Dearborn and Hunting Doffing.
The concept has been well Trenchless Huntings Trenchless business delivered a received by a number of major good result in the year, as sales benefited international service groups.
from a wider distribution network driving Hunting Specialty growth in demand for the units drill stems.
The business is now planning further Hunting Specialty manufactures international expansion with South precision machined MWD parts used in directional drilling markets, including America and Africa identified as regions steering tools and gyro systems and offering good sales opportunities for its products which includes drill stems, delivered an excellent result in the premium tubing threads and mud year, with the business operating at near-capacity.
Hunting Specialty has motor drilling components.
focused its expansion plans on increasing sales in Canada during the year.
In the future the business will be driving further international growth through Huntings regional manufacturing hubs.
Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 18 Control panels and switchgear designed for harsh field conditions.
Operating Review continued Well Completion Huntings Well Completion division provides products to customers during the completion phase of an oil and gas well.
The division reported revenue of 457.4m in 2012 2011 327.2m with underlying profit from operations totalling 74.1m 2011 41.2m.
Reported profit from continuing operations was 44.1m 2011 21.4m.
The division operates globally and comprises four business areas: Hunting Titan, Premium Tubing, Manufacturing and Accessories and Thread Protection.
Hunting Titan Hunting Titan manufactures perforating gun systems, shaped charges and when compared to 2012, with an underlying profit from operations associated instrumentation for the global increased levels of inventory being held of 6.9m 2011 7.9m.
Reported hydraulic fracturing market and operates across the industry, Hunting remains a profit from continuing operations was through three business lines, Perforating, key just-in-time supplier of premium 6.3m 2011 7.3m.
During pipe product lines supporting increased 2012, the units results were impacted by activity in the Gulf of Mexico and the The division operates globally and the switch from natural gas to liquids liquids-focused shales.
comprises two business areas: Hunting drilling in North America and increased Subsea and Hunting Welltonic.
competition in the short perforating gun Manufacturing and Accessories segment of its markets.
While drilling in Huntings Manufacturing and Accessories Hunting Subsea the oil focused regions offset some of this unit has seen a record performance Hunting Subsea manufactures and reduced demand, management adapted during 2012, with the majority of the distributes precision engineered subsea by shifting inventory to the busier shale units facilities operating at capacity valves, couplings and chemical injector regions.
This strategy included the driven by the increase in offshore drilling systems.
In 2012, the Subsea business opening of two new distribution centres in the Gulf of Mexico and other continued to report mixed trading, as in the US, with a further two planned in international drilling markets, including an efforts to complete the recertification of Canada in the short-term.
In the final quarter the valves and chemical injector product Lean Manufacturing initiatives were of the year, our deepwater-focused facility lines for use in the Gulf of Mexico introduced at a number of the units in Houma, Louisiana was commissioned extended throughout the year.
Looking facilities, which has improved production which will primarily service clients in the forward, the Subsea business is poised efficiencies.
Development of Hunting Gulf of Mexico and warehouse a number for a year of good growth driven by Titans international markets made of Hunting Titan product lines.
increased offshore global rig counts.
excellent progress in the year, as sales personnel were added throughout the Thread Protection Hunting Welltonic Groups international manufacturing Huntings thread protection platform Hunting Welltonic provides well hubs, and plans to produce key Hunting provides protection solutions including intervention technologies, services and Titan products were progressed in SealLube thread compound, Preservepressure control systems, to maintain and Mexico, Canada and China.
In 2012, A-Thread corrosion protection and enhance the productivity of an oil and Hunting Titan sold products to 52 CLEAR-RUN, its environmentally gas well.
During 2012, the unit continued countries around the world, with friendly advanced tubular solution.
The to grow its international revenue streams management confident of generating unit reported a good result in the year, as North Sea drilling activity decreased in additional sales from these regions driven by new product lines being the early part of the year.
introduced and qualified for use with a has successfully entered markets in the number of key customers.
US, where demand for Thru-Tubing and Premium Tubing pressure control products has been Huntings Premium Tubing unit, which Well Intervention identified across the various shale machines and sells premium alloy pipe, Huntings Well Intervention division regions in the country.
The business has reported a good result for 2012, despite supplies a range of products and established a presence at Huntings increased volatility due to the shift from services required throughout the life Conroe, Texas facility in the US and is natural gas to liquids drilling.
While the of a well to enhance and maintain now exploring sales growth opportunities short-term outlook for the unit is softer production and in 2012 reported in the Canadian market.
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 19 Other Operating Divisions and Production division and from 2013 Exploration and Production will not be making any new capital Huntings Exploration and Production investment, beyond where the division division has interests in the southern US has contractual commitments.
The and offshore Gulf of Mexico, holding equity division will in future focus on producing interests in over 50 production properties.
out its remaining reserves, with a view to On a Net Equivalent Barrel NEB basis, winding down the operation.
As a result, production in the year was 131,000 NEB Exploration and Production is now 2011 252,000 NEB, with proven reserves presented within other operating divisions.
at year end being 1.1m NEB 2011 1.2m NEB.
Due to disruptions in the regions Gibson Shipbrokers gas pipeline system, primarily as a result Gibson continues to be one of the of inspection and maintenance work, foremost global shipbroking businesses production volumes in the year were and now employs 165 personnel in the significantly reduced, leading to lower UK, Norway, Singapore and Hong Kong, revenues and income.
Additionally, the an increase of 11% compared to 2011. continuing depressed natural gas price in During the year, despite continuing the US contributed to lower revenues.
hostile trading conditions, good progress Based on these operating conditions, the has been made across the business with business reported an underlying profit from fixing volumes increasing 18% year on operations of 0.5m 2011 1.7m.
The year leading to an increase in revenue reported loss from continuing operations of 6% to 27.5m 2011 26.0m.
Underlying profit from operations decreased 6% to 1.6m 2011 1.7m.
During 2012, the business participated in 12 onshore wells and three offshore The business continues to be a leading wells, with eight of the onshore wells and broker in crude oil, fuel oil and clean one offshore well finding reserves, petroleum products.
The gas division contributing to the reserve base at year covers LNG and LPG broking.
Costs of 2.0m associated with specialised division focuses on smaller wells deemed to be uncommercial have shipments of chemicals, biofuels, been written off as dry hole costs.
vegoil, palm oil and lubes.
The dry bulk division focuses on Panamax and Following a year end valuation of Cape liftings of iron ore, grain and coal.
reserves, which requires individual oil and gas properties to be impaired when The offshore division has also grown the realisable value is less than the book its subsea, seismic and renewable value based on future production and energy broking activities and the sale commodity prices, the business has and purchase division remains active taken an impairment charge of 5.2m covering newbuilds, resales, scrap and reflecting lower gas prices.
A world class consultancy department works closely with all the The Board of Hunting has reviewed divisions and undertakes commission the strategic rationale of the Exploration work for existing and new clients.
Exploration and Production Oil and Gas Reserves NEB 000s 1 January Reserve 31 December 2012 Movement Production 2012 Oil 579 73 58 594 Gas 642 70 73 499 Oil and Gas 1,221 3 131 1,093 Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 20 Operating Review continued Performance Measures A number of performance measures are used to compare the development, underlying business performance and position of the Group and its business segments.
These are used collectively and periodically reviewed to ensure they remain appropriate and meaningful monitors of the Groups performance.
Key Performance Indicators 2012 2011 Revenue 825.8m 608.8m EBITDA 154.3m 102.5m Profit from operations 128.8m 81.0m Diluted earnings per share EPS 57.5p 38.7p Dividend per share DPS 18.5p 15.0p Return on average capital employed ROCE 14% 15% Gearing ratio 20% 30% Free cash flow 86.5m 38.9m Capital expenditure 61.6m 58.0m Inventory and WIP days 107 days 112 days Trade receivable days 64 days 73 days These performance measures are based on underlying results for the year.
Other Performance Measures 2012 2011 Number of employees year end 3,866 3,453 Number of recordable incidents 82 26 This does not include recordable incidents from the acquisitions made in 2011.
Indicators of future Group performance closely monitored by management include: Key Market Indicators 2012 2011 Drilling rig activity North America year end 2,137 2,432 Drilling rig activity International year end 1,253 1,180 WTI Oil price per barrel year end US$91.80 US$98.83 Henry Hub Natural gas price mcf year end US$3.44 US$2.96 Exchange rates US$ average 1.59 1.60 Exchange rates US$ year end 1.63 1.55 Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 21 Hunting Advanced Manufacturing Group The Advanced Manufacturing Group is This customer defined platform is targeted the strategic combination of Hunting to provide a single source MWD LWD Dearborn, Hunting Doffing and Hunting capability to the global oil and gas Innova capabilities under the one industry.
It features a single part or whole Hunting brand.
tool capability that unites precision machining, electrical manufacturing with product assembly.
Precision machined sections of various logging tools.
