Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 28 Operating Review Performance Volume Stick equivalents Cigarettes Fine cut tobacco 1 1 Billions 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 UK 25.3 25.6 18.7 19.2 6.6 6.4 Germany 32.0 32.2 22.6 23.4 9.4 8.8 Spain 22.0 23.8 18.7 20.8 3.3 3.0 Rest of EU 74.7 80.3 53.4 57.8 21.3 22.5 Americas 10.8 12.8 10.3 12.3 0.5 0.5 Rest of the World 171.8 171.3 168.8 168.6 3.0 2.7 Total 336.6 346.0 292.5 302.1 44.1 43.9 1 Our 2011 stick equivalent volumes have been restated due to a change to the conversion factors used to convert ne cut tobacco volumes into stick equivalent volumes re ecting consumption patterns of expanded tobacco.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Performance Overview Strategic Review Risk Governance Financials 29 In our operating review we provide details about how were Further weakness in market volumes in Spain affected our bringing our strategy to life in our regions and markets.
We performance, although a strong sales mix meant our net explain the external environment and consumer dynamics that revenues were at and we grew our adjusted operating pro ts have characterised 2012 and how weve driven performance.
However, further deterioration in the Spanish economy means that under IFRS accounting standards the value of intangibles previously allocated to Spain has Driving Quality Growth been reduced by 1.2 billion.
More detail is provided in our We focus on driving quality growth across our regions, building financial review on page 35. total tobacco brands that resonate with consumers and will deliver long-term sustainable sales growth.
Despite macro-economic weakness in our Rest of EU region, we grew our net revenues by 2 per cent and adjusted operating Were achieving this by consistently applying our sales growth pro ts by 1 per cent.
drivers combined with our consumer understandings to realise the growth potential of our brands and products across Outside the EU we delivered net revenue growth of almost our markets.
5 per cent and increased adjusted operating pro ts by 3 per cent.
In the Americas, where our primary market is the Our versatile portfolio spans the tobacco spectrum, providing USA, our net revenue and adjusted operating pro t both strength in all major consumer growth segments within declined by 11 per cent.
In the Rest of the World region we cigarette, ne cut tobacco, cigar and smokeless.
This means delivered an excellent performance.
We grew our net revenues were able to meet the needs of changing consumer by just under 10 per cent and our adjusted operating pro t by preferences to maximise growth.
In the developed markets of the EU our bias is on driving revenue and pro t performance, whilst actively managing our UK market share positions.
We focus on maximising returns by Market Context strategically balancing market shares, revenues and pro ts.
In the UK we estimate that the overall duty paid market declined The economic and regulatory climate in a number of by 3 per cent, with cigarettes down by 6 per cent and ne developed markets continues to shape consumer choices.
cut tobacco up by 8 per cent.
The overall duty paid market Many consumers are economising, further stimulating growth continued to be impacted by signi cant duty increases that in value brands and products.
Were well-positioned to continue have taken place during the last two years.
to capitalise on this dynamic through our value cigarette brands Performance Highlights and world leadership in ne cut tobacco, whilst also realising Innovation continues to strengthen our UK portfolio and support opportunities for our premium portfolio.
our leading Lambert & Butler brand franchise.
During the year Our Rest of the World focus is biased to quality volume and we rolled-out GlideTec packs nationally, Lambert & Butler Pro le share growth.
The region includes some developed markets queen size cigarettes and Lambert & Butler Fresh Burst with such as Australia, but primarily comprises developing countries a crushball menthol lter to strengthen the brands position and in Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East and Asia.
In many enhance our sales mix.
of these countries there are consumers with rising disposable We also continued to focus on the performance of our value incomes who are increasingly demanding premium brands, brands JPS Silver and Windsor Blue.
These brands grew with but there is also a value dynamic in place.
our overall cigarette market share broadly held at 45.0 per cent.
Our investments are weighted towards supporting sales in this In September, we strengthened the premium offerings within region and enhancing momentum behind our key strategic our portfolio with the launch of Davidoff iD cigarettes and brands Davidoff, Gauloises, West and JPS.
New cigarette Montecristo mini cigars.
formats like kingsize superslims and queen size are growing rapidly and were increasing our share of consumption in these Our ne cut tobacco share was 47.4 per cent, re ecting high growth segments.
Were also focused on capitalising on declines in Golden Virginia and Drum although we delivered the growing demand for our luxury Cuban cigars.
further positive performances from JPS and Gold Leaf and grew our volumes and pro ts.
Our Financial Performance We grew net revenue and adjusted operating pro t in the EU, Germany although challenging economic conditions affected results Market Context in some markets.
In the UK we increased net revenues and In Germany we estimate that the overall market was broadly adjusted operating pro t by 8 per cent and in Germany net stable.
Cigarette volumes were down 2 per cent and ne cut revenues were up over 3 per cent and adjusted operating tobacco volumes were up 3 per cent, with strong growth in pro t grew by 2 per cent.
make your own tobacco, up by 5 per cent.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 30 Operating Review continued Performance Highlights Rest of EU Our cigarette market share declined in the year to 25.8 per cent Regional Context partly due to West which was impacted by further downtrading.
We estimate that overall duty paid regional volumes were down However our share has been on an improving trend during by 3 per cent, re ecting cigarette market declines of 5 per cent the second half due to the success of a number of portfolio and ne cut tobacco growth of 6 per cent.
The sales momentum were generating has been Performance Highlights driven by the launch of JPS GlideTec and several limited editions Weve been actively managing our portfolio in France, our of Gauloises Blondes.
largest and most pro table market in this region, with cigarette Were making excellent progress in ne cut tobacco, leveraging innovations including Gauloises Tactil in a GlideTec pack and our expertise to capitalise on growing consumer demand.
Gauloises D-clic with a crushball lter supporting our recent JPS and Route 66 make your own tobacco are performing cigarette market share improvements and pro t growth.
particularly well, up by 28 per cent and 16 per cent respectively, Our market shares are also on an improving trend in other which combined with the success of the Fairwind brand markets such as the Netherlands and Czech Republic, and launched in March, has improved our overall ne cut tobacco weve delivered further market share growth elsewhere in the share to 22.3 per cent.
region including in Italy and Portugal.
In ne cut tobacco, overall regional volumes were held back by Spain signi cant growth in non-duty paid volumes in Poland.
Market Context Economic conditions remain dif cult in Spain: high JPS grew by 7 per cent, achieving particular success in make unemployment and increasing government austerity measures your own tobacco, re ecting our success in optimising are placing further pressures on consumers and the duty paid performance in high consumer growth segments.
tobacco market, with illicit trade a growing problem.
Elsewhere we grew our ne cut tobacco shares for the year Against this backdrop, we estimate that the overall duty in Austria and Belgium and our shares in other markets such paid market declined by 10 per cent, with cigarettes down as France and Hungary have been on an improving trend in 13 per cent and ne cut tobacco up 17 per cent.
As explained in our financial review on page 35, the macro In Scandinavia, our snus business delivered another exceptional economic indicators have resulted in us taking a non-cash performance with volumes up by 53 per cent and our market impairment charge of 1.2 billion during the year.
shares in Sweden and Norway increasing to 7.2 per cent and 27.0 per cent respectively.
Performance Highlights We are the number one tobacco company in Spain, with leading positions in all tobacco categories.
We continue to strengthen Americas our leadership by evolving our portfolio to re ect changing Market Context consumer preferences.
In our Americas region, our focus is on the USA which remains very competitive with consumer dynamics focused around value Fortuna is a brand with a rich heritage in Spain and were brands.
We estimate the overall cigarette market was down by improving its cigarette share performance through a number of 4 per cent.
initiatives including Fortuna GlideTec, Fortuna 24 and Fortuna Redline.
Consumers have also responded very well to new Performance Highlights Nobel formats, with Nobel Style and Nobel Slims supporting We completed the integration of our cigarette and mass market the brands overall growth.
cigar sales forces during the year and are refocusing our business with a new management team to drive growth in Weve built on the momentum behind Fortuna and Nobel key states.
and have grown our domestic blonde cigarette share to 28.3 per cent.
In addition, we enhanced our portfolio with Through customer engagement were strengthening retailer the launch of Davidoff iD in June.
partnerships and weve stabilised USA Gold and Sonoma shares as a result of a new cigarette pricing strategy that was In ne cut tobacco we achieved excellent growth with our rolled out across 19 states in the summer after a successful market share up to 41.6 per cent.
Our strong performance trial phase.
was driven by the ongoing success of Ducados Rubio and Fortuna ne cut tobacco products, re ecting our focus on The excellent performance of our premium cigar portfolio meant building brands across the tobacco spectrum.
we improved volumes by 11 per cent and revenues by more than 10 per cent and well be building on this strong growth going forward.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Performance Overview Strategic Review Risk Governance Financials 31 1 Rest of the World: Cigarette Market Shares Regional Context % 2012 2011 Our Rest of the World region encompasses diverse markets, Algeria 15.2 12.2 providing us with huge growth opportunities particularly with Australia 19.4 19.1 our key strategic brands Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, West 3 France 22.5 22.6 and JPS.
Were generating signi cant momentum behind these brands, growing regional volumes by 14 per cent and Germany 25.8 26.6 net revenue by 10 per cent.
2 Greece 11.5 11.2 Ireland 22.9 23.8 Performance Highlights In Asia-Paci c, weve grown our pro ts by 17 per cent and Italy 2.5 2.2 made excellent progress in our market shares in several Morocco 81.2 83.1 countries including Taiwan, Vietnam, Australia and New Zealand.
Netherlands 11.4 11.4 In Taiwan, we launched Davidoff iD in July and growth in West Poland 23.0 25.0 took our overall market share to 11.5 per cent.
Portugal 10.3 8.0 In Australia JPS continued to grow strongly driving our cigarette 2 Russia 9.3 9.4 market share up to 19.4 per cent and our ne cut tobacco share 3 Spain 28.3 28.1 up to 60.7 per cent.
Bastos grew volumes in the region by Taiwan 11.5 11.3 10 per cent with an excellent performance in Vietnam and Laos.
Turkey 3.6 3.3 Across Eastern Europe innovative formats of our brands UK 45.0 45.1 continue to grow, particularly in the popular kingsize superslims 2 Ukraine 22.0 22.5 and queen size cigarette segments and in both Russia and Ukraine, we launched Davidoff iD.
USA 3.4 3.9 Vietnam 10.3 9.8 We grew Davidoff, Style and West in Ukraine which supported growth in our cigarette share in recent months.
In Russia, we also grew Davidoff, Style and West supported by strong growth 1 Fine Cut Tobacco Market Shares from Maxim although our overall market share was down % 2012 2011 slightly.
More details on our Russian business are included Australia 60.7 59.9 in a case study on pages 22 to 25.
2 Belgium 16.1 14.7 In Africa and the Middle East we grew our overall volumes by 2 France 21.2 21.4 6 per cent and made excellent progress with Gauloises Blondes 2 Germany 22.3 20.4 with regional volumes up by 20 per cent and continued strong 2 growth in Algeria and Morocco.
Netherlands 45.1 46.3 Poland 55.4 60.1 In Africa we grew volumes of Fine by 14 per cent, with particular 2 Spain 41.6 40.3 success in Cte DIvoire, Chad and Congo.
In the Middle East Davidoff and West made strong gains, particularly with UK 47.4 51.0 innovative formats including kingsize superslims and slims 1 Imperial Tobacco estimates.
in Saudi Arabia and we recently launched Davidoff iD.
2 Restated due to change of source or basis.
We delivered another strong emerging market performance across our luxury Cuban cigar portfolio which includes Montecristo, Cohiba and Romeo y Julieta.
Limited editions have continued to support the excellent growth momentum were achieving: net revenues were up 13 per cent in China, 38 per cent in Russia and 19 per cent in the Middle East region.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 32 Operating Review continued Building on our Growth Momentum Our focus in 2013 remains on building total tobacco brands build our portfolio for those consumers looking for premium that generate long-term quality growth.
In our developed markets such as those in the EU and We see signi cant growth opportunities in our Rest of Australia, consumers will continue to seek value and we have the World region across Eastern Europe, Africa and the the brands and products to capitalise on this trend and drive Middle East and Asia Paci c and well continue to invest revenue and pro t growth, providing our consumers with to support sustainable growth, building on the strong unrivalled choice and value.
Were also seeking to further momentum of Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes and West.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
