o ov five er rv viie eW W business revieW governanCe finanCial statements interserve annual report 2012 business revieW operational revieW 15 operational revieW kpi table Target 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Workload for next year Visibility over 70% of next 12 months 78% 78% 73% 79% 79% revenue market consensus Headline earnings per share EPS Double headline EPS over 5 years to 2015 47.2p 49.3p 42.8p 49.7p 46.7p 1 Operating cash conversion 100% over medium term 116.8% 155.3% 122.1% 116.9% 88.6% 3-year rolling average 2 Annualised staff turnover Below 10% 6.0% 7.0% 8.6% 5.6% 8.6% Annualised all-employee Halve the rate by 2020 from a 2010 base 298 310 377 344 429 accident incidence rate per 100,000 employees 1 See note 33 for a definition of cash conversion 2 Staff turnover measures the proportion of managerial, technical and office-based staff leaving voluntarily over the course of the period This includes a non-recurring Middle East tax benefit of 5.6 pps We segment our operational results into: Support Services, future Workload Construction and Equipment Services.
Support Services Our future workload comprises forward orders and and Construction are each subdivided into UK and pipeline.
Forward orders are those for which we have International businesses.
We also have Group Services, secured contracts in place, and pipeline covers contracts which consists of the Board and a range of central services for which we are in bilateral negotiations and on which and our investment activities.
We allocate all central costs final terms are being agreed.
We include our share to Group Services, including those related to our financing of work won by our international associates.
and central bidding activities, and show the performance of our PFI investments separately as the Investments 31 december 2012 31 December 2011 segment.
Group Services costs in 2012 were 19.1 million Forward orders 4.7 billion 4.5 billion 2011: 20.4 million.
Pipeline 1.6 billion 1.1 billion support serviCes Future workload 6.3 billion 5.6 billion Support Services provides a broad range of outsourced As a result of reorganisation we have reclassified 0.3 billion services to public and private sector clients, predominantly of future workload in 2011 from Construction UK to Support in the UK but also increasingly in the Middle East, the Services UK.
majority of which we integrate and deliver ourselves.
results summary support services : 2012 2011 Change Revenue UK 1,118.1m 1,007.3m 11.0% International 31.3m 25.9m 20.8% Contribution to Total Operating Profit 48.0m 40.0m 20.0% UK 44.3m 36.4m 21.7% International 3.7m 3.6m 2.8% Operating margin UK 4.0% 3.6% 0.4%pts Operating margin International 12.8% 15.1% -2.3%pts Share of associates 16 interserve annual report 2012 business revieW operational revieW united kingdom During the year we increased our investment in the provision of frontline welfare services through the acquisition of In the period revenues increased 11.0 per cent with margins Yorkshire-based BEST now renamed Interserve Working improving from 3.6 per cent in 2011 to 4.0 per cent in Futures.
Combined with our existing joint venture, Rehab 2012.
Revenue growth was primarily due to our success in Jobfit, which operates in Wales and the South West, we developing our relationships with existing customers, but also are now one of the largest providers of training and workreflected the benefits of continued strong work winning in placement services for the long-term unemployed, principally current and prior years.
through the Governments flagship Work Programme.
This strong performance reflects our core capabilities to In December we acquired Advantage Healthcare which provide innovative and cost effective solutions, to help provides community healthcare services including case customers invest more efficiently and to develop existing management, social care, clinical and nursing services, for relationships, thereby leading to an increased scope of Primary Care Trusts PCTs, private clients and through GP activity.
Our entry into the community healthcare market, This is exemplified by our long-standing relationship which, which complements our existing offering to healthcare clients, in partnership with Alliance Boots, we have grown from a anticipates the increasing demand for more flexible and cost contract to provide cleaning services to 320 stores into a total effective service provision in this sector.
facilities management TFM service for eight office locations The increasing range of our capabilities and the growing and cleaning services across more than 1,000 stores in the UK complexity of customers requirements were exemplified in and Ireland.
the Leicestershire NHS Trust estate management contract We have continued to improve our margins in this division win, announced in September.
This is notable because of through a combination of investment in new systems and both its scale and the scope of services involved and also processes, a rationalisation of our organisational structures through its innovative relationship across three separate NHS and a further drive to increase procurement efficiency.
The contract comprises a full suite of support services activities, together with the benefits of increasing scale are ranging from facilities and estate management to strategic also contributing to our continued progress towards our target consultancy and advice, marking a new and radical approach of exiting 2013 with a margin of 5 per cent.
leveraging the collective scale and rationalising the combined assets of the three Trusts.
It will support three acute hospitals The business has performed well in winning work during and a range of health facilities including mental health units, the year, with a number of significant contract wins with primary care facilities, and community and district hospitals in customers such as ScottishPower, Carphone Warehouse, the area.
East Thames Group, West Yorkshire Police Authority, London Borough of Southwark, London Universities In addition we have developed organically a new capability in Purchasing Consortium, The Environment Agency the justice market to meet the demand from Government for and the Defence Infrastructure Organisation.
greater private sector involvement in the prison and probation services market.
As a result future workload for the division increased to 5.2 billion in 2012 2011: 4.5 billion, a strong platform Strategically these developments extend our offering in for future years.
frontline services, building on the Companys extensive experience and capability in outsourced government services, We believe that demand for public services will continue where we see significant and ongoing potential for growth.
to accelerate from a growing and ageing population, and that we are only now beginning to see the long-anticipated outlook shift in thinking that will lead to the more widespread use We expect the business to continue its strong progress as of outsourcing as the most efficient way to maintain such we expand into new markets, deliver more for our current services while reducing unit costs.
customers, win new client contracts and execute our services Anticipating the acceleration of this trend, we have sought more efficiently through our margin improvement programme.
to position ourselves to take advantage of outsourcing international in frontline services.
To date we have made strategic investments in justice, welfare-to-work and healthcare.
This business provides fabrication, maintenance, turnaround services and training to the oil and gas industry and hard and soft facilities management services across a broad range of markets across the Middle East.
o ov five er rv viie eW W business revieW governanCe finanCial statements interserve annual report 2012 business revieW operational revieW 17 In the period we continued to build on our offering, winning In the Middle East, where we have been active for over 30 years, more turnaround and long-term services contracts with both our client base is more oriented towards the private sector.
current and new clients including: Oryx extension to onsite However, drawing on the market positioning of our local mechanical maintenance on their gas-to-liquid plant, Shell partners, our businesses are also characterised by a focus on Pearl five-year services contract and turnaround services, recurring work from long-term relationships.
Dolphin Energy five-year contract for plant modification united kingdom works and maintenance services both on and offshore Despite challenging conditions, 2012 was a year of continued and Punj Lloyd Limited fabrication, installation and successful performance, innovation and new market pre-commissioning of pipework for a polysilicon plant.
The divisions contribution to Total Operating We aim to expand our engineering services and facilities Profit fell by 3.4 million to 14.6 million at a margin of 2.0 per management activities in the Middle East, where economic cent, reflecting increased competitive pressures in line with progress is increasingly generating requirements for our expectations.
We continue to expect margins to trend outsourced services.
This has generated opportunities for between 1.5 to 2.0 per cent over the medium term.
us to harness the expertise gained from our outsourcing During the year we have worked hard with local authority experience across many sectors in the UK with our knowledge customers to address their twin problems of affordable build costs of Gulf Cooperation Council markets.
Richmond Hill Primary School, In January 2013 we expanded the footprint of our activities which achieved the groundbreaking PassivHaus certification, with the acquisition of TOCO, an Oman-based business exemplifies this well: the school will use up to 80 per cent less specialising in fabrication, maintenance and repair services energy than a conventionally built equivalent facility.
for oil and gas refineries and offshore facilities.
The We have also extended our reach into targeted growth acquisition extends Interserves service offering in Oman, markets, such as energy-from-waste, completing the design a key growth market offering c. US$2.5 billion of oil, gas and and build of a plant in Westbury, Wiltshire and winning power contracts per annum as well as growing our offering a 150 million contract with Viridor for the construction across the region.
of Glasgow City Councils new Residual Waste Treatment outlook facility.
The contract involves the design and build of a facility to treat up to 200,000 tonnes p. a. of waste We expect revenues and profits to progress well, driven by via recycling, anaerobic digestion and energy recovery the petrochemical sector with margins trending towards our by gasification.
We are intent on building a sizeable support services presence in this important region.
Our sustainability credentials are becoming an increasingly important element of our offering alongside our more ConstruCtion established operational and project finance capabilities, In the UK and internationally we offer design and construction as evidenced by our success with West Yorkshire Police services in the creation of a broad range of buildings and in a 150 million PFI project to design, build, finance infrastructure.
The majority of our UK revenue comes through and operate three police facilities.
Our proposal for this long-term framework agreements and from repeat business contract involved a significant amount of investment in with blue-chip clients, with over three-quarters of this activity community projects, generating local jobs and training in the public and utilities sectors.
We operate from a network and exemplified our ability to make places and deliver of regional offices, specialising in mid-sized contracts.
services that enhance peoples lives.
results summary: 2012 2011 Change Revenue - UK 737.2m 731.1m 0.8% - International 201.6m 223.7m -9.9% Contribution to Total Operating Profit 28.9m 34.6m -16.5% - UK 14.6m 18.0m -18.9% - International 14.3m 16.6m -13.9% Operating margin UK 2.0% 2.5% -0.50% pts Operating margin International 6.5% 8.4% -1.90% pts Share of associates 18 interserve annual report 2012 business revieW operational revieW These skills, together with our traditional ability to tackle Doha International Airport which will compete as a new complex construction challenges, have also been brought to major international hub.
Fit-out continues to be an important bear in our successful proposals for the refurbishment and market for us, with prestigious contracts secured for the renovation of 200-year old buildings at Advocates Close, Private Engineers Office and the Al Deeble Tower in Doha.
The new mixed-use development will comprise planned new city of Lusail, to the north of Doha, is starting serviced apartments, restaurants, a bistro bar and offices to generate demand for construction services.
Over the year retail units revitalising an area formerly occupied by the City we have started to deliver infrastructure projects including of Edinburgh Council.
the construction, installation and commissioning of two substations for Hyosung worth approximately 30 million and In addition to the contracts mentioned above, we have chilled water piping diversions for Ashghal who are building enjoyed other successes, including: a multi-million pound the Expressway in Lusail.
project with Jaguar Land Rover to build a circa 65,000 square Our ability to deliver complex projects is well exemplified by metre facility in Wolverhampton to produce a family of all-new the Doha West Sewage Treatment works project for Ashghal, advanced technology, low emission 4-cylinder Jaguar Land where we built a new plant, refurbished the existing plant and Rover petrol and diesel engines: further work under existing constructed two storage lagoons.
The project was completed framework agreements with the NHS in England, Scotland three months early and on budget.
In Dubai we refurbished and Wales, and with National Grid: together with numerous the existing Gold Souk, in the Dubai Mall, for Chalhoub Group other contracts for English Heritage, St Lukes Hospice, and 2 into a bespoke 9,000m the Highways Agency.
As a result, our future workload as shoe district, comprising 40 designer at 31 December 2012 has remained at 0.9 billion.
outlook Market conditions in Oman have been broadly stable with good levels of activity in industrial development and defence.
We expect the UK construction market to continue to remain Notable contracts included building a 132KV grid substation challenging during 2013, before a resumption of gradual for Arabian Industries and a substantial package of works growth from 2014, stimulated by increased government for the new Military Training College in Seeb.
Our fit-out spending on infrastructure and some recovery in private and joinery businesses have also performed well, with the sector investment.
However, we have a strong order book and completion of the flagship Sohar Court complex, which we continue to diversify the business to position ourselves for also built, a particular highlight.
growth across an expanding set of market segments.
outlook international We expect that in the short term demand will remain Both volumes and profits continued to be affected by shortsubdued: however, growth rates in the region are still term client caution.
Nevertheless we were able to continue to attractive in the medium term as countries need to improve maintain our shape and readiness for an increase in demand, their infrastructure, we move closer to the 2022 World which we expect to materialise in the coming years given the Cup and economic growth in the region shows signs of underlying economic strength of the Middle East region.
Against this overall backdrop of restraint, we are beginning equipment serviCes to see cause for medium-term optimism.
For example, in the UAE, we are starting to see an improvement in trading Equipment Services designs bespoke engineering solutions conditions, and during the year we won a number of sizeable and provides temporary structural equipment formwork and contracts with both new and existing clients.
These included: falsework for complex infrastructure and building projects.
infrastructure projects such as the 11 million Fujairah internal We have a strong position as one of the leading global roads system and the 6 million regional headquarters for suppliers in these specialist markets, operating across a wide the Habib Bank AG Zurich: shopping centres, such as the range of geographies and sectors, with a fleet of equipment 49 million Jumeirah Beach Village and the 38 million which we redeploy to meet the changing demands in our Fujairah City Centre: and a 28 million contract for General various markets.
Electric for the construction of Emirates Engine Overhaul results summary: Facility.
Our fit-out business continues to see demand with 2012 2011 Change the winning of numerous contracts including the Saint Regis Revenue 167.5m 154.3m 8.6% Hotel in Abu Dhabi and the Bab Al Bahr Hotel in Ajman.
Contribution to In Qatar, which was more subdued, we are well prepared Total Operating Profit 16.0m 13.6m 17.6% for the anticipated increase in infrastructure investment in Margin 9.6% 8.8% 0.8% pts the run-up to the 2022 World Cup.
We won an important contract to fit out the main halls and 17 lounges at the new We have continued to see a gradual recovery in activity levels in a number of our key markets in 2012. o ov five Er rv vIIE EW W busInEss rEvIEW govErnAncE FInAncIAl stAtEMEnts IntErsErvE AnnuAl rEport 2012 busInEss rEvIEW opErAtIonAl rEvIEW 19 Regionally: Australasia and Far East Middle East and Africa Performance across the region was underpinned by infrastructure, major liquified natural gas and mining Saudi Arabia remains our largest market in this region, projects.
In Australia this included Gorgon in Western and we have continued to expand our footprint in the area Australia and three other liquified natural gas plants between Jeddah and Riyadh.
Our largest project in the on Curtis Island, Queensland.
Although the pace of region is the provision of equipment to the Roots Group investment in the natural resources sector may have Arabia contract at the Mecca Grand Mosque, to which we slowed somewhat in recent months, and activity in have delivered approximately 15,000 tonnes of equipment commercial hubs remains low, Australia nevertheless over the last three years.
In Jeddah our equipment is being represents an important and relatively resilient market used to build the six-lane raised approach roads to the new in which we have a strong market-leading position.
airport and several major infrastructure projects in Riyadh Following the substantial earthquake damage in are continuing to support a good performance.
Christchurch, we have experienced significant demand In Oman, the business is performing well and we are for both shoring and formwork, which has driven a very strongly positioned with a high market share, currently strong result from our operation in New Zealand.
undertaking a number of important projects, including: Growth in Hong Kong has been driven by a strong the redevelopment of Muscat and Salahlah airports, programme of infrastructure investment, including the where in each case the innovative climbing formwork $1.5 billion cruise ship terminal development and the system, Tru-lift, is being used in the construction of new Kowloon 810a b public transport project, which includes control towers.
the development of an integrated interchange for In the UAE there are early signs that more substantial underground and overground trains, a bus station infrastructure projects are coming to market after a and a taxi hub.
In November we won We also had a strong year in the Philippines, with a prestigious contract for the Presidential Palace in demand being driven by projects such as the new Abu Dhabi, building momentum from earlier wins Philippines Arena and Stadium complex.
During the with customers such as Larson & Toubro and Seobon year we developed our international centre of excellence Construction.
for design in Manila, drawing on the extensive labour In Qatar the market remains subdued although increased pool of relevant skills in the Philippines and servicing bidding activity on planned major infrastructure projects our business across the Far East and in Europe.
such as the underground light rail system at Lusail Europe points to early indications of improvement.
Demand was generally subdued, reflecting the continued Following a restructuring, our South African business saw pressures on the construction sector, both in the UK much improved year-on-year performance and is well-placed and mainland Europe.
We implemented a number of to profit from growing signs of a pick-up in demand driven cost-reduction and restructuring measures to ensure by civil infrastructure growth in areas such as roads and that our operations were appropriately sized for lower power stations.
We are continuing to provide significant volumes.
We undertook a number of important projects amounts of equipment to the Gruluk Bunker, in connection such as the support of the stadium roof in the Stade with a new power station near Lephalale in Limpopo province.
Vlodrome in Marseille and also in Spain, where we are We also won a number of important new contracts including working with Horta Cosalda as plans to increase stadia Flicksburg reservoir with Ruwacon and the supply of shoring capacity ahead of UEFAs Euro 2016 tournament begin equipment to the Mhlatshane waste water treatment works to emerge.
for Cyclone Construction in Kwazulu Natal.
8504 Interserve AR 2013 Operational tp Review 7. indd 19 19 03 2013 15:01 20 interserve annual report 2012 business revieW operational revieW americas In June and July we announced the sale of half of our In the US, the construction market has begun to show holding in the UCLH project to the CFIG Fund, the exercise signs of recovery with both volumes and prices improving of our pre-emption rights in relation to a co-investors towards the end of the year.
Prior to that, conditions holding, and the onward sale of this holding to the CFIG were difficult, to which we responded with a number Fund.
In October we sold a minority stake in a portfolio of organisational changes.
of 19 PFI investments to Dalmore Investment Fund and in Elsewhere, market conditions were much more favourable, December we announced the transfer of 55 million of the and we have increased our investment in Chile and remaining PFI assets into the Companys pension scheme Panama and are planning market entry into Colombia.
a transaction which completed in January 2013.
Chile, in particular, is growing strongly, driven by mining The combined effect of these transactions was to realise a demand, and we have opened our third branch in the total value of 174.3 million, 119.3 million of which was in country, in Copiapo, to service the natural resources cash.
We intend to utilise these cash proceeds and some extraction industries in that region.
of the capacity in our current debt facilities on further outlook strategic investments in growth markets or sectors, both in our existing businesses and by acquisitions.
We expect Equipment Services revenues to continue to improve with margins trending towards the Notwithstanding these disposals, the PFI Private medium-term target.
Finance 2 PF2 market remains an important area for Interserve, both as a source of construction and investments facilities management contracts, and for the available Investments is responsible for two broad areas: directing returns on our equity and debt investments.
In 2012 the Groups PFI activities leading the bid process and our PFI equity investments made a total contribution managing equity investments : and taking the primary to pre-tax profit of 12.0 million.
role in driving the Groups strategic development, We continue to seek out, and to win new contracts, pursuing acquisitions, exploring new opportunities and such as the West Yorkshire Police PFI, won during 2012. leading major, complex bids in market sectors which This will involve the construction of two new divisional require cross-divisional involvement.
The costs of these headquarters, custody suites and a specialist operational central functions are allocated to the Group Centre segment.
training facility with firearm ranges and public-order and The results summarised below reflect the performance driver training facilities, and the provision of FM services of our equity investments in PFI projects.
We anticipate that the total value results summary: of our construction and FM services will be approximately 2012 2011 Change 150 million.
Contribution to At 31 December 2012 we had a remaining portfolio of two Total Operating Profit 6.6m 6.0m 10.0% PFI assets 31 December 2011: 21, comprising Addiewell Interest received on Prison, which is operational and West Yorkshire Police, subordinated debt which is under construction.
Additionally, preferred bidder investments 5.4m 4.0m 35.0% negotiations are ongoing at a third project, Alder Hey 12.0m 10.0m 20.0% Childrens Hospital in Merseyside.
Exceptional profit outlook from PFI disposals 110.9m - The recently announced private finance initiative, PF2, and Our strategy for our PFI portfolio is to optimise the cash the announcement of a resumption in the schools capital flows of projects by intelligent operational and financial programme, together with a further 5 billion of other management.
When we can add no further value, we seek infrastructure investment are positive developments.
Given to realise the latent value that we have created and to our strong track record in delivering, operating and financing reinvest in new strategic opportunities.
PPP initiatives, we expect to enlarge our project portfolio over the next few years.
During 2012 we undertook a series of three transactions to unlock the significant value in our increasingly mature portfolio: o ov five er rv viie eW W business revieW governanCe finanCial statements interserve annual report 2012 business revieW operational revieW 21 Complex formWork solution for makkah mosque in meCCa equipment serviCes In a mammoth undertaking, our global formwork and shoring experts, RMD Kwikform, completed the design and delivery of over 15,000 tonnes of formwork and shoring solutions to main contractor Roots Group Arabia, for the expansion of the landmark Makkah Mosque in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Situated next to the Islamic holy shrine of the Prophet Mohammed, the project win provides facilities for 2.5 million people during their 2 pilgrimage.
With 250,000m of stunningly ornate prayer halls, ceremonial halls and courtyards, this was one of the largest projects delivered by RMD Kwikform Saudi Arabia to date.
RMD Kwikform supplied an impressive engineering solution, with formwork supporting some 1,600 tonnes of concrete structural frame, consisting of heavy-duty Megashor shoring, R700 trusses, Superslim Soldiers, Albeam and Maxima wall panel systems.
