12 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Operating review Industry & Assurance Powering safer futures Financial highlights 2012 Change at Change at actual constant m rates rates Revenue 665.6 42% 43% Adjusted operatingprofit 77.4 52% 54% Adjusted operatingmargin 11.6% 70bps 70bps Revenue at actual rates m Employees 2012 665.6 2012 7,329 2011 468.6 2011 6,053 What we do The Industry & Assurance division provides a wide range of services to clients across its global business lines, which include Industry Services, Exploration and Production and Business Assurance as well as Food and Agriculture.
These services include asset integrity management, engineering, inspection, auditing, certication, consulting, training and stafng, provided to a wide variety of industries including oil, gas, petrochemical, power, renewable energy, and construction.
Our performance in 2012 Performance in 2012 has been strong as the full benets from the acquisition and integration of Moody, purchased in April 2011, have been delivered.
Total revenue was 665.6m, up 42% at actual exchange rates and 43% at constant exchange rates.
Excluding acquisitions revenue growth was 9%.
Total adjusted operating profit was 77.4m up 52%.
Excluding acquisitions adjusted operating profit was up 18%.
The total adjusted operating margin increased 70 basis points to 11.6% at actual exchange rates.
The organic adjusted operating margin at constant exchange rates increased 60 basis points.
During the year there was significant revenue growth from the Industry & Assurance division as the joint Intertek Moody offering drove significant contract wins in the industrial Technical Inspection market, driven by expenditure by clients on both capex and opex related energy projects.
The Food business has expanded its network and continues to deliver strong growth, while the Business Assurance and Agri sectors continue to support growth in the division.
In April 2012 Intertek acquired Automation Technology, a provider of asset integrity support services to the US Power industry for 10.0m and in September 2012 the Group acquired Materials Testing and Inspection NDT Services in the UK for 14.3m which offers a range of non-destructive testing services to the aerospace, power and petrochemical sectors.
As global energy demand continues to grow, the demand for inspection services will continue to drive revenue growth.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 A reputation for quality When Chinas largest oil and gas producer and supplier looked for a partner to certify and provide extended technical inspection services, Intertek met this need, having already established a reputation as a world leading provider of technical inspection services to the global energy market.
The work included oil and gas storage and transmission pipeline inspections, in addition to chemical, petrochemical and equipment inspections.
These inspections are critical to ensuring a supply chain that minimises risk, reduces cost and potential delays, improves product quality and safety and ensures our client complies to local and international standards.
Interteks exibility and openness to new and different approaches has helped to add value through the audit process.
Director, global foodservice retailer Transparency in food supply Plugging in to The food industry is increasingly renewable energy subject to scrutiny, and so food With one of the largest offshore production customers have greater wind markets, Germany is racing demands placed upon them to to connect its burgeoning offshore demonstrate the safety and quality facilities to the onshore grid so that of their processes to consumers.
it can meet its offshore energy With our portfolio of food testing, targets for 2020.
Interteks auditing, certication, training and specialist expertise in delivering advisory services we are helping offshore solutions enabled our our customers move from a client, a European electricity grid quality control approach at the operator, to help ensure its production stage, to a quality interconnections were completed assurance approach along the to the highest possible standards supply chain from farm to fork.
14 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Operating review Commodities Supporting global trade Financial highlights 2012 Change at Change at actual constant m rates rates Revenue 572.3 8% 9% Adjusted operatingprofit 77.2 15% 15% Adjusted operatingmargin 13.5% 90bps 80bps Revenue at actual rates m Employees 2012 572.3 2012 10,352 2011 530.2 2011 9,763 What we do The Commodities division provides testing, inspection and other technical services to the global petroleum and minerals industries, and supports trade activities that help the ow of goods across borders.
Its key business lines include Cargo, Analytical Assessment, Government & Trade Services and Minerals.
Our performance in 2012 Revenue in the Commodities division increased 8% to 572.3m at actual exchange rates, and 9% at constant exchange rates.
This strong increase was mostly organic.
Total adjusted operating profit for the division was 77.2m up 15% at actual exchange rates.
The adjusted operating margin was 13.5% up 90 basis points at actual exchange rates and the organic adjusted operating margin was up 80 basis points at constant exchange rates.
There was strong growth in demand for cargo inspection and analytical assessment within Asia, while the US market was steady.
Demand for cargo inspection services continued to expand as global trade patterns evolve.
Demand for minerals testing was particularly strong during the first half of the year, especially in Australia, Indonesia and Africa which supply minerals to meet demand from China.
Our trade services programmes continued to increase the support to governments around the world, with both well-established and new programmes delivering high revenue growth.
In May 2012 Intertek acquired Vigalab Mineral Laboratory in Chile for 3.3m which complements Interteks growing international minerals capability and supports the expansion of quality and safety services in Latin America.
In November 2012 the Group acquired a majority stake in Laboratory Services International Rotterdam for 4.1m, which provides analytical testing for commodities traded on the London Metal Exchange.
Growth in the commodities market is largely driven by underlying global trade and growth in consumer demand in local markets.
We expect long-term growth in the demand for energy and other commodities to continue to drive testing and inspection revenues.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 Enabling the shale oil and gas revolution Innovative fracking technologies have unlocked vast amounts of shale crude oil and natural gas in North America.
The resulting tsunami of new production has caused radical changes in global and domestic trading patterns and generated challenges in transportation, distribution and rening.
Interteks in-depth knowledge of the shale oil and gas supply chainhas allowed us to provide crucial expertise to meet these challenges.
We have provided on-site support in major shale projects such as the Bakken and Eagle Ford.
Our personnel workwith inland pipeline, rail, and storage networks to ensure the quality and quantity of shale oil and gas products through sampling and quality control testing in our laboratories.
Inaddition, our high-value bulk cargo inspection services assist reneries, traders and logistic providers to process, tradeand store their products better.
Interteks oil assay testing provides us with important shale oil composition data which is vital in optimising the quality and value of our oil and gas production.
Feedstocks Quality Manager, petroleum rening and distribution company Supporting global trade A quality discovery Intertek works closely with As mining companies search for Governments to assess the quality new deposits of minerals, the of regulated products entering or speed and accuracy of sample exiting the country: whether analysis becomes a critical part from a safety, authenticity or of the discovery process.
Interteks performance perspective Intertek network of mine laboratories provides assurance in accordance ensures there is a short lead time with strict standards.
16 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Operating review Consumer Goods Satisfying the demand for quality Financial highlights 2012 Change at Change at actual constant m rates rates Revenue 343.4 9% 8% Adjusted operatingprofit 112.8 6% 5% Adjusted operatingmargin 32.8% 90 bps 120 bps Revenue at actual rates m Employees 2012 343.4 2012 10,047 2011 315.7 2011 9,177 What we do The global business lines, including Textiles, Toys & Hardlines, Risk Management, and Auditing, that comprise the Consumer Goods division, partner with global retailers, manufacturers and distributors.
Our services include testing, inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality assurance, and hazardous substance testing.
Our performance in 2012 The Consumer Goods division delivered strong growth in 2012, with total revenue of 343.4m, an increase of 9% at actual exchange rates and 8% at constant exchange rates.
Total adjusted operating profit of 112.8m was up 6% at actual exchange rates.
The adjusted operating margin was 32.8% a decline of 90 basis points at actual exchange rates.
The organic adjusted operating margin at constant exchange rates decreased 90 basis points principally due to investment in the new Tradegood service line.
Excluding this development, the adjusted operating margin was broadly stable.
The demand for textiles testing continued to grow well, with growth in China supplemented by strong growth in other parts of our network, including Turkey, Korea, Vietnam, Bangladesh, India and Mexico.
Slower growth in Toys & Hardlines testing was more than offset by progress in our Risk Management and Auditing business lines, which provide testing across the supply chain.
During the year the Group launched Intertek Tradegood a new online platform to help match suppliers with buyers which gives buyers access to reliable data on suppliers qualications and credentials globally.
In March 2012 Intertek acquired 4th Strand for 4.1m, a provider of product quality and benchmarking services to the retail industry in North America.
This company brings expert product procurement knowledge and experience to the Group that will support the drive to increase the range of services to the retail industry initially to North America and then to Europe and other geographies.
The growth drivers in Consumer Goods are strong, with increased consumer demand for quality and safety, product sourcing from lower cost manufacturers and legislative changes all creating a market for our services.
The development of innovative solutions and delivery models for clients will also help to grow revenues.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 A strategic partnership A global retailer wanted to focus their energies on their core business bringing new and innovative products to market in a timely fashion, while entrusting quality to the experts at Intertek.
The retailer was so pleased with Interteks ability to stay true to its overall mission that Intertek was awarded the primary responsibility of managing the retailers future product development analysis, testing criteria, vendor capability development, social responsibility auditing, and all existing and future quality management programmes.
Time-to-market has improved while overall product cost has decreased and continues to do so.
Executive Director, consumer product retailer Supply chain assurance Design analysis Intertek was charged with Our customer, a leading toy monitoring and auditing the manufacturer, sought Interteks assistance to ensure the integration conditions of the factories that produce this retailers organic of safety precautions in its product designs.
Using our Design Hazard cotton shirts.
Intertek observed and evaluated working conditions, Analysis programme we used the workers wages and workow historical data analysis, physical safety measures to determine simulations and laboratory if they met both the customers evaluations to help them and regulatory standards.
understand potential hazards Intertek also evaluated production and to mitigate associated capabilities and standards manufacturing and supply chain including assessments of delay risks caused by design issues.
machinery and contracts with third-party manufacturing companies, producing a report with recommendations to enhance performance.
18 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Operating review Commercial & Electrical Supporting the technical revolution Financial highlights 2012 Change at Change at actual constant m rates rates Revenue 318.2 9% 9% Adjusted operatingprofit 50.6 15% 13% Adjusted operatingmargin 15.9% 70bps 60bps Revenue at actual rates m Employees 2012 318.2 2012 4,092 2011 291.0 2011 3,897 What we do The Commercial & Electrical division provides global manufacturers with the most comprehensive scope of safety, performance and quality testing and certication services.
We support clients in a wide range of industries including home appliances, consumer electronics, lighting, medical, building, industrial and heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration, information communication and technology, renewable energy and automotive.
Core business lines include Electrical, Automotive, Building and Wireless.
Our performance in 2012 The Commercial & Electrical division delivered strong growth, with total revenue increasing 9% to 318.2m at actual exchange rates, and 9% at constant exchange rates.
This growth was wholly organic.
Total adjusted operating profit was 50.6m, up 15%.
The total adjusted operating margin was 15.9%, up 70 basis points up 60 basis points at constant exchange rates.
Growth was mainly in high tech sectors, particularly medical products, lighting and renewables across North America and China.
We invested in new technologies in the USA, Germany and China in areas including 4G mobile services and electric vehicle battery technology as we continue to expand our service offering to clients.
Proprietary certication marks owned by Intertek and issued by the Commercial & Electrical division enable manufacturers to show proof of compliance to safety and quality requirements, as well as a means of differentiating their products.
Innovations in technology, particularly the growth in mobile applications and high speed networks are helping to drive testing and certication revenues, alongside greater legislation.
We expect consumer demand for green products to continue to grow and we are helping our customers improve the energy efficiency of their products.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Committed to our clients success A mobile apps client that provides a digital radio service required immediate quality assurance testing and certication to meet all phone platforms and mobile operating systems.
Intertek quickly scaled its global resources to test the software against a wide array of mobile technologies, enabling the company to meet wireless carrier requirements and get to market within strict deadlines.
The result was a highly popular and successful all-in-one digital radio application that lets users stream more than 1,500 live stations or create custom stations featuring similar songs and artists.
Quality is what you do when no one is looking, and Intertek proved that they have the highest level of quality and customer service.
Director of Compliance, electrical electronics manufacturer Fast, expert service Global research and A leading electrical electronics certications manufacturer needed immediate As home and commercial testing and certication to meet appliances become more a critical product delivery deadline, energy efficient, their electronics and Intertek committed 100% become increasingly more to meeting their schedule.
The challenge for one global leader in laundry systems is staying abreast of the ever-changing regulatory requirements.
Interteks experts regularly work with the client daily, when needed to address regulations for every country in which they sell theirproducts.
20 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Operating review Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals At the cutting edge of research Financial highlights 2012 Change at Change at actual constant m rates rates Revenue 154.8 8% 10% Adjusted operatingprofit 17.1 34% 36% Adjusted operatingmargin 11.0% 210bps 210bps Revenue at actual rates m Employees 2012 154.8 2012 1,516 2011 143.9 2011 1,461 What we do Our expertise in the Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals division helps clients in industries as diverse as aerospace, automotive, healthcare and beauty and medical and pharmaceutical to accelerate and fide-risk new product research, improve efficiency in manufacturing and to ensure final product safety and compliance with the appropriate regulatory authorities.
We support core business processes, ranging from new drug development through to innovation in new materials including metals, polymers and composites.
Our performance in 2012 The division achieved strong growth, particularly in the second half of the year, with total revenue increasing 8% to 154.8m at actual exchange rates and 10% at constant exchange rates.
Excluding acquisitions, revenue growth was 7%.
Total adjusted operating profit for the division was 17.1m, up 34%.
The total adjusted operating margin was 11.0% up 210 basis points.
Excluding acquisitions, adjusted operating profit growth was up 180 basis points at constant exchange rates.
During the year Intertek entered into partnership with the Abu Dhabi Government Quality and Conformity Council QCC to support the quality programme for the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
Intertek will initially provide advisory services for the development of more effective quality conformity schemes for specified products and systems.
There was strong growth in the USA, notably in the automotive business and advanced materials, while the QCC outsourcing contract also benefited the second half.
The next stage of the European Union REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals regulation also improved performance in the regulatory services sector.
On 31 December 2012 the Group acquired Tickford Test Technology in the UK for a cash consideration of 3.8m.
This expands the range of services provided to vehicle manufacturers for engine and lubricant testing.
A positive US economy and continuing environmental controls will continue to drive growth in the automotive fuels and lubricants sector, while the REACH regulation should benefit the European market.
The QCC agreement will provide an opportunity to deliver on a high prole contract and act as a model for future outsourcing contracts.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Expertise through collaboration When Air Products, a leading global supplier in industrial gases and speciality materials looked for measurement support in their research and development to continue to enable their customers to be productive, energy efficient and sustainable, Intertek met their challenge.
Our team of analytical experts worked closely with Air Products own R&D and engineering teams, providing problem solving, method development, modication and testing services in order to accelerate R&D programmes and rene manufacturing processes for a wide range of applications.
We contracted Intertek to help comply with REACH registration deadlines, making it possible for us to continue selling our products in Europe without interrupting the supply chain.
Leader, Product Integrity Group, plastics and chemicals producer Strategic quality partnership Safer health and Intertek has entered into beauty products partnership with the Abu Dhabi Recently the European Commission Government Quality and concluded that REACH has Conformity Council QCC to improved the safe use of chemicals support the quality programme both for human health and the for the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
Numerous avours Intertek will provide advisory and fragrances companies are services for the development working with Intertek to meet of more effective quality their REACH obligations, ensuring conformity schemes for specified the safe use of their specialty products and systems.
This chemicals in all applications, will be followed by operational including in healthcare and beauty management services and quality products.
Intertek also provides assurance support for QCCs expert testing and product existing testing and certication assessment services to ensure that resources whilst underpinning the cosmetic products are safe for establishment of new testing consumers worldwide.
capabilities for an extended range of products.
Intertek will then work with QCC to establish centres of excellence in Abu Dhabi covering major sectors such as food and water, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, building materials and electrical appliances.
