Chairmans statement Meggitt achieved an excellent trading performance supported by strong cash generation.
With the continued recovery in our aerospace markets and the Dunlop business successfully integrated, the group is well placed for future growth.
Sir Colin Terry Chairman in 2003 2004 is expected to continue electronics and Sensorex, a in 2006.
Boeing and Airbus delivery manufacturer of sensors and forecasts for 2006 and 2007 are electronics for extreme environments, projecting significant increases enhance our position in these markets.
over actual deliveries in 2005 and the market for business and general Outstanding people aviation remains robust.
The I cannot stress strongly enough my recovery in civil aerospace is also gratitude for the skills and leading to increased demand for application shown by our employees.
Military Their support and dedication is demand is expected to be healthy integral to our strong performance and although the regional aviation and I conclude by extending my market is depressed, the aerospace thanks and congratulations to them.
picture over all looks bright.
Investing for the future Our objective of delivering continued excellent shareholder returns is Another record year dependent on Meggitt maintaining Sir Colin Terry Revenues increased 29% to 616.3 significant investment in three main Chairman million and underlying profit before areas.
First, we spent 30.8 million taxation was up 29% to 116.3 on research and development million.
Profit for the year increased approximately 5% of revenue, by 26% to 66.2 million.
The groups providing the backbone for continued profits were underpinned by another organic growth.
Second, we incurred strong cash performance with 102% capital expenditure of 19.2 million, of underlying profit converted to cash ensuring our businesses operate and an order book 30% higher than with the best available equipment the same time last year.
Third, the acquisition Aerospace business acquired in 2004 of three businesses for a total 15.5 has been successfully integrated into million continued our strategy of the group and continues to perform making selective acquisitions that in line with expectations.
Given this extend our core competencies and strong performance, the board is enhance our market position.
Avery proposing a 10% increase in the final Hardoll, a manufacturer of valves dividend to 5.3 pence.
and measurement devices for the refuelling markets, complements Aerospace picture looks bright our existing Whittaker Controls The years recovery in the civil business: and ECET, a specialist aerospace market from the low point in ignition systems and airborne Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 03
