10 Chairmans Statement our sTreNgThs A proven, resilient business model Experienced Directors and long serving senior management who are industry pioneers Fully integrated proprietary operating software infrastructure Scalable technology platform Industry leading in-house marketing capabilities Industry leading member relationship management Richard Kilsby, Chairman Sophisticated, effective payment processing and risk 888 is Well PlaCed To beNefiT from management systems exPaNsioN iNTo NeW geograPhiC markeTs as iNTerNeT PeNeTraTioN CoNTiNues aPaCe The Board of 888 Holdings Public developed our positions in both Limited Company is pleased to Casino and Poker by building on present its first set of full year our key strengths of an industry results since the Companys leading brand, a highly diversified flotation in October 2005 a major gaming offering and a widening step forward and the successful geographic footprint.
result of a long-term growth plan for the business.
In the year to 31 December 2005 we achieved total Net Gaming These results demonstrate the Revenue of US$271 million and strength and growth potential of our underlying Profit after tax excluding business which is, today, one of the share benefit charges of US$65 worlds most popular online gaming million.
Continuing to build profitable entertainment companies.
During sustainable topline momentum is the year we continued to improve key to our long-term success.
We 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11 developed a series of self-regulatory global online gaming industry, providing Our strategy is clear.
We aim to guidelines for the online gaming our members with a comprehensive create sustainable shareholder industry.
As online gaming develops selection of uniquely-created gaming into a mainstream leisure activity we activities and offering a secure, trusted value by becoming the market believe further clarification of the entertainment experience.
leader in the global online regulatory position in relation to online gaming industry, providing our gaming would be a positive driver I am pleased to report that we have members with a comprehensive for growth by enhancing consumer already begun the new financial year selection of uniquely-created confidence and trust in the sector.
2006 will see continued investment in the 888 gaming activities.
board brand through worldwide innovative I am pleased to have the opportunity to marketing initiatives, such as the By the end of the year we had more chair 888 and to welcome to the Board recently announced five year than 23 million registered member three new Non-executive Directors: sponsorship of the World Snooker accounts and over 330,000 active since August 2005, Michael Championship, which will be known members, representing 177 different Constantine, a former Inspector and as the 888. com World Snooker countries and supported 11 different Acting Commissioner of the Gibraltar Championship.
languages for our Casino-on-Net Financial Services Commission and offering a real testament to the Brian Mattingley, former Executive 888 is well placed to benefit from strength and global appeal of our brand.
Director of Gala Group Plc: and from expansion into new geographic March 2006 Amos Pickel, Chief markets as Internet penetration The significant achievements of this Executive of Red Sea Hotels Ltd. continues apace and we react to local year would not have been possible regulatory developments.
We will also without the support, contribution and With their outstanding complementary look to extend the range of products dedication of our staff whose passion, experience, I am confident that our so that we can offer members the knowledge and enthusiasm gives us a new Non-executive Directors are complete online entertainment further competitive advantage in this superbly qualified to provide invaluable experience.
All of this gives me great fast moving market.
support to our executive team in the confidence about our future prospects.
The online gaming market is maturing and, whilst online regulation is still in its The Boards commitment to the infancy, we welcome the UKs entry into highest standards of corporate the online space through the Gambling governance and corporate social Act 2005.
Of note is the Gibraltar responsibility is detailed in the Gambling Ordinance which introduces a Corporate Governance section of bespoke regulatory regime in Gibraltar this report on pages 24 to 28.
Richard Kilsby for remote gaming and further Chairman consolidates Gibraltars position as a Finally, on behalf of the Board, I first-class online gaming jurisdiction.
would like to express the Groups appreciation to Marie Stevens for Generally, we are seeing a change her contribution.
in emphasis of regulators, who are looking beyond the grant of licences dividend and are focusing more on compliance The Board intends to implement, in and codes of conduct within the 2006, the dividend policy set out in industry.
This is an area where 888 the Financial Review on page 19. has sought to take the lead.
We were one of the founding members outlook of eCOGRA e-Commerce Online Our strategy is clear.
We aim to create Gaming Regulation and Assurance, sustainable shareholder value by an independent body which has becoming the market leader in the
