Misys plc Chairmans statement The Companys performance for have acted to reposition Misys for the year was encouraging, with the growth: making big structural changes momentum we achieved in the first to focus more closely on the growth half being sustained.
This performance areas of our core markets, investing reflects better trading conditions in in product development and putting some parts of our markets that had customers current and future been subdued, but more especially the commercial, technological and functional benefit of our own actions.
We have requirements at the heart of all activity.
continued implementing our strategy We have successfully recruited the to reposition Misys for organic growth, additional management talent and with increased investment across our professional skills needed to help us business in our products, our service deliver our organic growth plans.
delivery, our marketing effort, our Over and above that, we wanted a skills and our people.
catalyst that would revitalise Misys We recognise that sustained successful and unite our teams around a common execution remains essential and there business objective of achieving and is still room for improvement, but our sustaining best performance again.
progress over the last 12 months gives We adopted a Peak Performing us confidence for the future.
Organisation programme and are in the first year of implementing it within 2004 05 results Misys.
We began by bringing together Operating profit increased during some of our best people to articulate 2004 05.
Revenues on a statutory a common Misys purpose and shared basis were slightly below the prior year, 2 Kevin Lomax Chairman beliefs that would unite and inspire although on a like-for-like basis they too us all to improve the bottom line.
The increased across all our core businesses.
five-year challenge we set ourselves is Earnings per share at 2.9p were below for Misys, in our markets, to lead the the prior year, although on an adjusted software industry in customer basis they increased 6% to 15.6p.
Our satisfaction, growth and total cash performance remained strong with shareholder return.
We want to be the Company as a whole achieving admired for making software that operating cashflow of 89m.
We makes things that really matter, work again returned cash to shareholders, better.
In the health and wealth 53m during the year, through a share sectors where we operate, sectors We have continued repurchase programme.
We believe fundamental to peoples lives, that implementing our buying back our shares improves simple message is compelling.
Everyone our capital structure and enhances strategy to reposition within Misys has responded to it with our financial performance.
We have now embedded Misys for organic result of this programme, net debt was the Peak Performance ethos in growth, with increased 219m 2004: 183m.
I am confident operational practices and team that the financial gearing we have taken investment across our objectives throughout our core on is prudent.
The Board recommends businesses, and are increasingly sharing business in our a final dividend of 4.28p per share, our approach with customers, partners products, our service bringing the full year dividend to 6.84p, and prospective employees as an an increase of 5%, in line with our delivery, our marketing essential part of what makes us Misys.
policy of maintaining dividend cover effort, our skills and at an appropriate level for medium Quality our people.
There is huge scope to make things work better.
The software industry Regaining winning form is ripe for a quality revolution to rival In our last annual report I outlined that in automotive manufacturing how the company was forging a new which 25 years ago set new standards strategic direction.
In recent years, we of specification, economy and reliability www.
com The five-year challenge we set ourselves is for Misys, in our markets, to lead the software industry in customer satisfaction, growth and total shareholder return.
as companies totally re-engineered increased investment in product to work with us.
Those that seek the development to 91m.
This investment engaged vigorously with the Peak software equivalent of virtually defectensures that our systems and solutions Performance re-purposing and have free production will lead the industry.
continue to offer customers lasting taken ownership of its goals.
The sense Quality must become an integral competitive advantage, with options of one company and united purpose discipline and treated as another to incorporate technical upgrades or is much stronger and there has been opportunity to improve the bottom additional service modules smoothly a real upswing in our performance.
Better test systems and procedures so that the service they provide in I thank everyone for their tremendous will help, but quality must be everyones turn to their customers is seamless.
We have a number of We continue to align functional The Board quality initiatives underway and are development with market and I am pleased to welcome Al-Noor assessing the best methods to embed technology trends as well as with Ramji, Chief Information Officer of consistent and repeatable processes customers current and future needs.
BT Group plc, as a non-executive and standardise reporting to improve We are increasing investment in our Director.
His immense knowledge of both efficiency and measurement.
development and service centres in software development brings valuable Our commitment to increasing quality India and the Philippines.
We plan insights to our strategic product in our products, methodologies and to develop a new Misys facility in planning process.
Bob Ingram and Ian service delivery is fundamental to Bangalore to accommodate expansion Dyson will step down as non-executive how we take the business forward and of our development resources for Directors at the AGM and we thank I am championing this personally.
As well them for their contributions.
Driving up shareholder value as raising our profile locally, this will Looking forward Over the last two years we have bring our development together on Health and wealth are universal renewed and revitalised much of one site, streamline overhead costs concerns and, quite rightly, our our product portfolio and customer and provide better working conditions customers and their customers in turn reaction has been very positive.
In for employees within easier travelling expect a great deal of the systems to banking, we have a suite of world-class distance of the city.
which they entrust vital and sensitive products competing in the highestAs indicated in last years report, information.
We win when we prove growth sectors.
The United States third party relationships are assuming to customers on a daily basis that they healthcare sector is at a key point as growing significance in executing our prosper by choosing Misys products, providers consider how best to share strategic plans.
We have established and gain the advantage themselves patient information securely online partnerships and professional service by using them.
Reducing their costs across multiple venues of care: our alliances complementing our in-house and improving their businesses family of products can make this capabilities, particularly for geographic effectiveness is key to winning their connectivity a reality.
In the general distribution and product enrichment.
lasting loyalty and securing our own insurance market we have found I also said last year that near-term success and to creating real value growth opportunities through acquisitions would focus on extending for our shareholders.
broadening relationships with the product functionality and broadening United Kingdoms leading insurance market coverage.
Our recent acquisition brokerage firms.
Our intention remains of Almonde, a risk management to divest Sesame, the support service software specialist in the banking for financial advisers, within the next sector, is a good example.
12 months and we have appointed advisers for this purpose.
Our people We have continued to invest in Win when they choose, win when and develop the talent within our they use business, both by internal promotion Kevin Lomax Product development and lifecycle that recognises achievement and by Chairman management are central to delivering recruiting high-calibre individuals keen our win-win goals.
