Chairmans Statement I am pleased that I am able to report that we have Corporate Governance produced another good set of results for this financial We endeavour to achieve the highest standards of year, achieving growth in all of our businesses.
Corporate Governance in the furtherance of our business and achievement of corporate objectives, I believe that as Chairman my role is to maintain the which is clearly detailed in the Annual Report.
environment for the executive team to manage the Company successfully and to motivate our employees Our difference so that we can maintain our unequalled record of We provide a range of skilled and semi-skilled services providing excellent services to our customers and to a wide variety of customers in both the private and achieving consistent growth.
These results clearly public sectors.
Our people are focused on working demonstrate that we have succeeded again.
hard together, supporting our customers, listening to them and making sure that the services we provide I am determined that we will maintain our excellent connect with their needs.
I would like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication over the year.
Success is never easy, but MITIE has Without their efforts we would not be able to satisfy been able to achieve consistently our customers and produce results like these.
Every one of our 30,000 employees has made an high levels of performance because important contribution.
our people are passionate about the quality of service we provide and The Executive Directors have experienced a year of change: they have successfully integrated the newly because of their financial interest acquired companies and have discharged their in the result.
That motivation makes responsibilities admirably.
I would also like to thank my fellow Non-Executive Results Directors for the contribution they have made this Turnover rose to 818.6 million, an increase of year.
The Non-Executive Directors are faced with 17.9 % and profit before tax, goodwill amortisation increased responsibility and the Company is fortuand impairment and exceptional items rose by nate to have Directors of such calibre and experience.
Profit before tax after goodwill 2.8 million, 2004: 2.2 million and Success is never easy, but MITIE has been able to exceptional items 8.2 million, 2004: nil fell by achieve consistently high levels of performance 5.9% to 35.9 million.
because our people are passionate about the quality of service we provide and because of their finanBasic earnings per share before goodwill and excepcial interest in the result.
That motivation makes tional items rose by 15.0% to 9.6p.
Basic earnings per the difference.
The impact of the exceptional items was to reduce earnings per Outlook share by 2.7p in the current year.
We will continue to look See Group Profit and Loss Account.
for opportunities where it is viable to start new companies.
We will continue to grow organically Dividend within our chosen markets and look to expand The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.8p our range of services within our skill base.
We will per share making a total of 3.4p for the year, an look for opportunities to make bolt-on acquisitions increase of 36.0%.
As stated in previous reports we provided our criteria are met.
will continue to review our dividend policy.
MITIE operates in a market that, although it is Share buyback programme competitive, has plenty of opportunities for growth.
We commenced a share buyback programme in We are in the business of continuing to grow in June 2004 and in the period under review purorder to provide better services for our customers, chased 10,310,006 MITIE Group PLC ordinary more opportunities for our employees and improving shares of 2.5p at an average price of 144.6p.
The returns for our shareholders.
highest and lowest prices paid were 165.0p and 131.0p respectively.
All shares purchased have been This Company is well positioned for further success.
We will be seeking to renew the authority, I am excited about our prospects for the future.
granted by Shareholders, to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 28 July 2005.
David C Ord Chairman MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 03 Ian R Stewart, Chief Executive By working together with our customers we allow them to focus on their core business.
The review provides a wide range of information.
For ease of reference, we have included the following list of contents This review of our operations has been within this section.
prepared to enable our Shareholders and others to have a balanced and Overview comprehensive understanding of our business and our performance for the The business, its markets, values and strategy year under review.
The MITIE start-up model Our major markets Our structure and services Our values Our strategy Operating Review Performance in the period Support Services Building Services Dynamics of the business Cash Future prospects 04 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005
