Corporate responsibility Corporate Responsibility is an integral part of Morgans Dealings with customers and suppliers, including Human resources management Employee relations and communications business philosophy and a culture of continuous improvement anti-competitive behaviour Our corporate Human Resources standards are implemented Our employee communications have been a key part of is inherent in our social, environmental and ethical Integrity in financial reporting through our Global Business Units, with appropriate support the renewal of Morgan, and our latest employee survey performance.
This was acknowledged in March 2005 when from Group and regional resources, for example in China shows that 55% of employees say that overall company Morgan joined the FTSE4Good index.
The wider community where a regional Director of Human Resources has been communication to employees is good, up from 48% in 2004 The Board takes overall responsibility for Corporate Communication and compliance, including employee appointed.
This approach helps to ensure our people policies and from 37% in 2003.
Communications take place through Responsibility policies and processes.
Mr W Knowlton takes reporting without fear of retribution through the Morgan and practices are aligned with the needs of our business and a variety of channels, including regular global newsletters executive responsibility, supported by Mr G Rowlands, Ethics and Compliance Helpline.
the twice yearly 360 Magazine which contains business Director of Operations and Technology, who is the Executive unit, site and community news, and Morgan Update which The Morgan Ethics and Compliance Helpline was introduced Policy implementation, along with the identification and Committee member responsible for Environmental and Health keeps employees informed of Group developments including towards the end of 2005.
The Helpline enables employees bench-marking of best practice, are facilitated by the and Safety matters.
The Chief Executive of each Division has our annual and interim results and the results of our annual who are aware of, or suspect misconduct, illegal activities, Group-wide General Managers forum and regional Human operational responsibility for policy implementation.
These newsletters are available in eight fraud, abuse of Company assets or violations of Morgans Resources councils in Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
languages and are supplemented by team briefings Many of Morgans products help to improve the ethics policy to report these confidentially without fear The Director of Group Personnel is a member of the Executive and presentations.
environmental and health and safety performance of our of retribution when they feel they cannot use the local Committee, and human resources related risks are covered by customers operations and products.
Although we have not channels.
The helpline will be rolled out on a global basis in The European Employee Forum, established since 1996, the Groups risk management process.
sought to quantify this benefit, we see the development of the coming year.
continues to be a powerful two-way forum for communication new and improved products as a key part of our contribution Policies and in 2005 was expanded to include Morgan businesses in Appropriate employees across the Group continue to receive to sustainability.
the new member states of the EU.
anti-competitive behaviour compliance training and the Morgans employment policies insist on full compliance with This report follows the guidelines issued by the Association programme is now extended into Asia.
This training is followed UN guidance on human rights and minimum working age to As discussed above, Morgans Ethics and Compliance Helpline of British Insurers and is supplemented by our 2005 EHS up by annual independent audits and the auditors reports ensure freedom of association, equal opportunity and diversity enables employees to seek guidance or raise concerns on a Report and our social, ethical, environmental, health and are considered by the Executive Committee and the Board amongst employees, regardless of gender, race, religion, confidential basis.
This Helpline supplements local procedures safety policies to be published on the Companys website when appropriate.
culture, creed, age or disability and any other status protected and will be rolled out during 2006. in April 2006. by law.
Employee surveys Human resources Over the past year a number of initiatives have been As is set out in our Code of Core Values and in our Ethics Policy, Morgan has been conducting global employee surveys since I In nt tr ro od du uc ct tiio on n undertaken to improve Corporate Responsibility performance every employee is entitled to fair treatment, courtesy and 2003.
Over 60% of employees participated in the 2005 survey, and reporting and to establish a new baseline for future respect.
Morgan will not tolerate sexual, racial or any other The future success of Morgan relies on the competence, with over 50% of participants providing written comments and targets, taking into account businesses which have been sold form of harassment prohibited by law.
vision and commitment of our employees.
The survey is conducted in eight languages with or restructured.
These will continue to be developed during the policies and practices are designed to recruit, retain and Training and development results and trends fed-back on a Group, Divisional and site coming year.
Examples will be included in our 2005 EHS Report.
motivate employees and provide the training and working basis as well as to all employees in Morgan Update.
Morgan encourages employees to participate in their Ethics and ethical trading environment needed to deliver the high expectations of our development and to achieve their maximum potential The results of the 2005 survey show increasing levels of business and customers.
Morgans commitment to the highest standards of ethical this is key to achieving Morgans business goals and we work engagement and commitment with employees increasingly Morgans leadership in technology is underpinned by conduct and Corporate responsibility is encapsulated in our to develop our people at all levels and on a global basis.
feeling that they are a part of the Group as a whole.
our investment in training and developing our people.
This was updated during the year This is underpinned by strong local loyalty and a good Training and development needs are identified through We encourage them to achieve their maximum potential.
and is now supplemented by our Ethics Policy and the understanding of broader objectives and of how individuals Morgans performance appraisal system that has been Our Long-Term Incentive and Share option plans and Morgan Ethics and Compliance Helpline procedure.
adopted by all Divisions on a global basis.
This system also our employee communications all help to inform, involve These are endorsed and fully supported by the Board.
furthers talent identification and succession planning.
I know the overall direction that Morgan is taking and motivate our people.
Morgans Ethics Policy, which is translated into appropriate During 2005, over 2,000 employees in manufacturing, sales languages for our sites worldwide, provides employees with 2005 49% 27% 24% and marketing, finance and general management received practical guidance for both their everyday activities and other 2004 39% 30% 31% Employees by division number at year end some form of training and development.
The policy cross-refers to our other policies l Carbon 3,816 and covers: Morgan-wide training courses include international market l Technical Ceramics 2,104 development, project management and negotiating skills.
Morgan treats me fairly l Insulating Ceramics 3,380 Environmental, health and safety Where appropriate Morgan runs regional training programmes, l Corporate 29 2005 55% 27% 18% Equal opportunities, human rights and compliance for example training in China is for all Divisions and includes 2004 45% 38% 17% with UN guidance leadership skills and sales.
This supports divisional programmes 2003 36% 44% 20% that are aligned to the strategic needs of each business.
Business behaviour, including dealing with conflicts of For example, within the Insulating Ceramics Division the interest and bribery and corruption I feel optimistic about the direction Morgan is taking Thermal Ceramics global management development programme takes 36 high potential employees and exposes 2005 53% 32% 15% them to the latest management thinking, teaching them 2004 46% 37% 17% Employees by region number at year end to apply this across the diverse cultures in which Morgan does 2003 46% 33% 21% business.
In the Carbon Division there has been an intensive l Europe 3,359 focus on developing supervisory management and in l North America 2,925 Morgan values its customers question not included in 2003 survey l India 787 Technical Ceramics 350 employees have received a mix l China 1,303 of on and off site training in technical and process skills.
2005 70% 23% 7% l South America 357 2004 64% 27% 9% l RoW 598 l Agree l Neither l Disagree 30 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review 31 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review Environmental management systems are in place at 37 major Targets In addition to the time given to community projects and for Environmental, health and safety sites in 13 countries world-wide, representing some 58% of charitable purposes by many Morgan employees around Morgans EHS targets were set in 2003 and covered a number Introduction production capacity.
This includes 16 sites or 32% of capacity the world, in 2005 Morgan also made charitable donations of businesses which have subsequently been restructured, which is certified to ISO14001.
Morgans commitment to environmental, health and safety relocated or sold, including the Magnetics Division.
Over the achieve further certifications in China and Mexico, in addition EHS is supported by the Groups development strategy and past year, we have also worked to up-date our KPIs and Suppliers and customers to the rolling programme of re-certifications.
Systems are commitment to profitable growth through implementing best data collection processes.
As will be further detailed in our in place for managing Health and Safety across all major Morgans customer service strategy is to respond quickly to practice.
EHS performance improvements are a fundamental 2005 EHS Report to be published in April 2006, the 2003 data Morgan operations worldwide, with a number of sites certified changing customer demand, to identify emerging needs and part of the way we conduct business and many of our no longer serves as an adequate base year given the or working to OSHA18000 where this is appropriate.
continuously to improve product availability, quality and value.
products also help improve the EHS performance of our changes in the Group.
During the coming year we will be Thus our continuous improvement programmes and quality customers businesses.
Morgans EHS management processes also includes a working to set and publish new Group-level targets which management systems help ensure that our products meet programme of EHS compliance audits.
Fourteen sites were build on the progress to date and will further upgrade our This commitment is reinforced in our Core Values Statement or exceed customer requirements.
Some 90% of the Groups audited during the year, using external auditors in Europe and KPI processes and integrate these into our management which requires us to measure, appraise and report our manufacturing capacity is now accredited to ISO 9001 and Asia and in-house resources in North America.
In addition to Group targets, our EHS performance.
this is underpinned by our Operational Excellence programme and the associated corrective action plans, have been businesses set targets and undertake initiatives appropriate which is focused both on quality and the elimination of waste EHS policy supplemented by specific environmental assessments to their specific opportunities for improvement.
associated with the Group restructuring projects.
The key features of the Groups EHS policy, which applies The wider community Verification to the whole Company are to: Health and safety performance Morgans practice is to engage with local communities in The Board has considered the potential for external verification Comply with EHS legislation, regulations and other Accident statistics are actively monitored across the Group.
relation to matters of mutual interest and concern.
At a local of the Groups corporate responsibility performance, but in applicable requirements: As a result of pro-active preventative programmes and level, where Morgan may have long-established roots and 2005 has limited this to external professional advice on specific training, performance over the past year has improved may be a major employer, this helps to foster understanding Minimise the environmental impact of historic, current health and safety and environmental matters as required.
with a reduction in lost working time and in major and minor and credibility.
In addition, Morgan engages with local and and future operations: incidents per 100,000 hours worked.
In addition, measures national Governments and agencies, both directly, or through Cautionary statement Conduct operations in such a manner as to avoid to assist employees in getting back to work have resulted in professional bodies.
Such engagement is in part covered by unacceptable risk to human health and safety: a small reduction in the average lost time per incident.
our Ethics Policy which prohibits donations to political parties This Operating and Financial Review, which is compliant with or causes.
Accounting Standard Board Reporting Standard 1, has been Supply products that will not present unacceptable risk 2005 2004 Decrease prepared for and only for the members of the Company to human health and safety when used in compliance During 2005, Morgan continued to support and fund the Lost working time 0.09% 0.15% 40 % as a body and no other persons.
Its purpose is to assist with product safety communications and common joint Barnardos Outward Bound initiative which provides Major incidents per 100,000 hours 0.62 0.88 30 % shareholders to assess the Companys strategies and the safety practices: opportunities for young people to develop life skills at a centre Minor incidents per 100,000 hours 0.26 0.49 47 % potential for those strategies to succeed and for no other in Ullswater, UK.
Morgan also supported a number of charitable Establish measurement tools for and continuously purpose.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or and community initiatives, including medical research and the Major work related injuries resulting in four or more days lost time monitor EHS performance: advisers do not accept or assume responsibility for any other education and development of young people.
Minor work related injuries resulting in one, two or three days lost time purpose or to any other person to whom this document is Set objectives for the continuous improvement of At a local level, Morgan and our staff support a variety of shown or into whose hands it may come and any such Environmental performance EHS performance.
initiatives and projects, including: responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Operating Over the past year, key environmental performance indicators EHS management and organisation and Financial Review contains forward looking statements Every year Morgan Advanced Ceramics Alberox, in New 2 show a reduction in CO emissions due to energy use, waste that are subject to risk factors associated with amongst other The management of EHS performance is aligned with Bedford, Massachusetts, USA, lends support to its local generation and water consumption indexed to turn-over.
things, the economic and business circumstances occurring the operation of Morgans day-to-day business.
As noted community through the United Way.
This includes payroll This is in part due to changes in business and product mix, from time to time in the countries, sectors and markets in above, the Group Chief Executive has overall accountability giving and each September employees participate in the and also due to improvements in our understanding and which the Group operates.
These and other factors could for Corporate Responsibility, including EHS policy and Day of Caring when they help local non-profit agencies with management of our environmental impacts.
Programmes are adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the performance.
He is supported by Gareth Rowlands, Director computer recycling, landscaping, house painting and other in place to ensure that energy use, emissions and waste are plans and events described.
Forward looking statements by of Operations and a member of the Executive Committee.
their nature involve a number of risks, uncertainties and In turn, operational responsibility is delegated to the Chief In the UK a number of employees participated in the Great assumptions because they relate to events and or depend 2005 2004 Decrease Executive of each Division and to the manager of each North Run, a half marathon.
Money was raised for a hospital on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future operation.
This structure is supplemented by EHS professionals Tonnes CO per m revenue 646 665 3 % 2 baby unit, for Phab, a charity which brings together people and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ within each business and in practice, all of Morgans Tonnes waste per m revenue 78 82 5 % with and without physical disabilities and for the Mental materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward 3 employees are responsible for ensuring that our EHS policies m water used per m revenue 3,775 4,930 23 % Health Foundation.
It is believed that the expectations are implemented, and for identifying additional areas and includes inter-company revenue reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be opportunities for further development.
An operator at the Technical Ceramics facility in Rugby, affected by a wide range of such variables.
No assurances UK ran the New York marathon, his first, to raise money for As part of our programme to leverage best practice across can be given that the forward looking statements in this the Yorkshire Cancer Research Foundation.
the Group, an Environmental, Health and Safety Good Operating and Financial Review will be realised.
The forward Management Practice manual has been compiled and issued Employees at the Ruabon site in North East Wales have been looking statements reflect the knowledge and information to all Morgan sites around the globe.
Sites are benchmarking supporting a local charity, the Nightingale House Hospice available at the date of preparation and will not be updated their own management practices against this, and will be for nine years.
The charity celebrated its 10th anniversary in during the year but will be considered in the Operating implementing programmes to improve their systems and 2005 with a return visit from the Duchess of Gloucester who and Financial Review for next year.
This Operating and performance accordingly.
Financial Review has not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
32 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review 33 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review
