N Brown Group plc 2 Report and Accounts 2005 LORD ALLIANCE OF MANCHESTER CBE CHAIRMAN Chairmans statement The Group results for the year ended 26th February 2005 show significant progress has been made in the profit recovery of the core home shopping business, reflecting the major focus on margins and new growth areas over the past two years.
In the continuing tough trading conditions, which have affected the whole retailing industry, this division, which accounts for over 90% of total revenues, increased operating profits by 13.6% on turnover up 0.9%.
A program to rationalise and restructure our other businesses will be completed by the autumn.
Impairment costs of 25.5m have been provided to effect these changes with positive benefits for group profitability going forward.
Overall group turnover is down by 2.2% at 460.3m but operating profit before operating exceptional items is up from 54.2m to 54.4m.
Pre-tax profit is 18.6m 2004, 31.0m after accounting for higher interest charges, joint venture losses and impairment provisions.
The borrowings have reduced to 126.2m during the year with a net cash inflow before financing of 19.3m generated by a significant reduction in both the working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
Internet FULFILMENT SERVICES assets of 243.3m and interest cover before operating penetration has increased to 11% of total sales, An operating profit before operating exceptional exceptional items of 6.5 times.
The Board is reflecting growth of over 60% to 44m.
We plan to items of 0.3m has been achieved against 0.8m recommending maintaining the dividend at 5.84p, increase this further by both promoting this channel last year.
The interactive services activity was closed covered 1.9 times before operating exceptional items.
to our existing customers and building new on-line down in July 2004 and the focus is now clearly on brands.
com has been more profitable fulfilment contracts, helping retailers HOME SHOPPING launched and is aimed at a new audience, offering to establish their on-line and catalogue channels.
Core home shopping results, excluding House of a range of high street and designer footwear brands Stirling and Teleview which are covered separately in addition to our own range of wide fitting footwear.
We are working on a solid pipeline of opportunities, below, show a significant operating profit and fulfilment contracts have now been signed with improvement, up 13.6% at 59.2m 2004, 52.2m In late autumn we launched the Express Shopping Woolworths and more recently JJB Sports.
The rapid on turnover up 0.9% to 416.5m.
This reflects the Channel on the main digital television channels in growth of multi-channel retailing continues to provide concerted management action which has resulted partnership with Northern and Shell.
Our share of exciting opportunities for Zendor.
in a 1.3% gross margin rate improvement and a cost losses was 1.9m as planned, including set up costs.
reduction programme which has reduced selling and BOARD administration costs by over 4m.
The gross margin has improved by 1.3% to 56.6% Jim Martin, currently non-executive Deputy Chairman through a combination of reduced bad debts, following and distinguished former Chief Executive, has indicated Our home shopping strategy is to focus on specific the tightening of credit limits, and a deliberate move his intention to retire from the board at our Annual customer and product niches, with particular to reduce the level of discounting.
Jim has served 31 years specialism in larger sizes and or the over forty-five with the company, during which it has grown from customer.
Whilst turnover growth has been modest As we outlined at the interim results, we have a market capitalisation of only 4m, much of it due we have shown considerable success in certain key embarked on a focused cost reduction campaign, to his outstanding retailing skills, as well as sheer hard product categories.
Overall sales of ladieswear were including using on-line auction techniques to improve work.
We thank Jim for his enormous contribution level with last year despite strong deflation in the purchase prices and, where necessary, restructuring to the company over many years and wish him well.
market place, and within this sales of corsetry and business processes.
This has yielded savings of 4m lingerie were up by 9%.
Footwear was our strongest in the current year.
PROSPECTS & OUTLOOK performing range with sales up 13%.
Despite the reported weakening of general customer HOUSE OF STIRLING demand in recent months, we have seen some The total turnover for home and leisure products was, The recovery plan implemented for House of Stirling, encouraging signs in current trading.
Sales in our core as expected, slightly down at 116m.
The tighter our door-to-door selling operation, has delivered the home shopping business for the 10 weeks since the credit controls, introduced to improve profitability, expected reduction in losses in the second half.
The year end are running 5% ahead of last year, 3% of had the predicted impact on slowing sales of the underlying results for the year show sales of 24m, which is contributed by House of Bath customers.
higher value furniture and electrical lines.
This was down 27.5%, and pre-exceptional operating losses However in the light of recent announcements in the offset by the launch of a new Christmas Gifts of 6.3m 2004, 2.0m.
sector we remain cautious in our outlook for both catalogue which resulted in a greater contribution sales and gross margin.
from toys, gifts and decorations.
We have undertaken a fundamental review of the business and are taking radical action to stem the The restructuring program for our non-core activities Sales grew in all three of our customer age groups.
losses, resulting in an impairment charge of 22.5m.
will be completed by the autumn, resulting in a Within the younger titles 3045 age group Fashion World This is shown separately as an operational significant improvement in the rate of return on remains the dominant catalogue but the fastest growing exceptional item.
brand is still Simply Be, where sales grew by 18%.
TELEVIEW Overall we are delighted that the many profit The main mid-life group of catalogues targeted at the The disposal process for our television rental operation improvement initiatives we have put in place in the core 4565 age group rose by 1% to 293m including sales has been protracted.
We are in negotiations with business are starting to deliver positive results.
Sales in from the House of Bath database we acquired in interested parties and hope to conclude a deal shortly.
many of our key product categories are advancing and November 2004.
Once this business is fully integrated The operating result was break-even compared with we have improved both the gross margin and the cost we will use it as a platform to increase sales from the a 1.2m pre-exceptional operating profit last year.
base, with a further limited net benefit to come in the ABC1 socio-demographic groups, where the market current year.
FINANCIAL SERVICES We have been making personal loans to our customers The fact that this has been achieved in a very Sales to the older customers 65 plus rose by 2% since 2001.
After a thorough review of the prospects competitive retail market, confirms our confidence in to 22m with good performances from Heather Valley for this business we have decided to offer these the program we are now pursuing.
Whilst there is more and Special Collection.
products only as an intermediary, for which we receive progress to be made, the hard work of management guaranteed commission.
and staff is starting to be rewarded.
Our emphasis on customer recruitment has been to improve the quality rather than the quantity of our The existing loan portfolio of 19m will be collected database.
We discontinued the Value Catalogue and out by our own debt collection team but we anticipate Home Essentials on grounds of low profitability, which a shortfall of 3m, including costs, which has been contributed to a 3% decline in customer numbers.
The taken as an operating exceptional item.
The prehigher quality customer base, together with improved targeting and catalogue content, resulted in the exceptional operating profit in the division was 1.2m 2004, 2.4m.
LORD ALLIANCE OF MANCHESTER CBE average sales per customer rising by 4%.
