Chairmans Statement David Ross Chairman We remain confident that the foundations are in place to enhance shareholder value through organic and acquisitive growth whilst maintaining dividend and share buy-backs.
AS WELL AS ACHIEVING ORGANIC GROWTH ACROSS MOST OF OUR OPERATIONS, WE EXTENDED OUR PRESENCE IN THE PUBLIC TRANSPORT MARKET THROUGH BOTH NEW CONTRACT WINS AND ACQUISITIONS IN EXISTING AND NEW MARKETS.
I am pleased to report the Groups results for the This development gives the Group a significant year ended 31 December 2005. combined coaching operation, enabling the transfer of best practice between two major businesses.
This year will be remembered for the tragic events Our initial focus has been the integration of Alsas of the London bus and tube bombings.
The Group financial and reporting systems, which is currently has many operations in and around London and on schedule.
Our management teams are already many of our colleagues were close to, or involved working well together to identify cost synergies, in, the aftermath of the events.
Whilst our particularly in procurement, risk management and operations were not directly affected, we are proud IT.
We believe there are many opportunities to that many of our employees played an active role in grow this business by the use of better yield assisting Londoners during this difficult period.
In addition, would like to take this opportunity to thank them we will be drawing on our experience in the UK for their commitment and their tremendous efforts coach market to reduce Alsas cost of sales.
The in reassuring the public, getting services back to respective cultures of National Express and Alsa normal and working alongside the teams from the have significant similarities which should enable the emergency services during this difficult time.
integration plan to be fully delivered by the end of In December Alsa, Spains largest private coach and this year.
We are pleased with the progress we have bus operator, owned by the Cosmen family, joined made to date and are confident that we can the Group.
In one transaction we achieved critical achieve the benefits identified when we announced mass in a major European country which has good this strategic move.
growth prospects, gaining sustainable earnings at above average margins.
This year we revised our North American strategy to focus on our highly successful school bus Alsa is a long established business with an operations where our strong reputation with our experienced management team who are keen to customers delivers a high quality and reliable drive the business forward.
The quality of its earnings stream.
Consequently, we sold ATC, our product delivery has earned Alsa a first class Public Transit business, during the year.
reputation as both an operator and employer in the Spanish public transport market.
Operating in the As part of the rail remapping, we have agreed with Spanish regulated coach and bus markets, Alsa has the Department for Transport DfT to align our extensive contracts, with an average life of nine Central Trains, Silverlink and Midland Mainline years, which provides stable earnings.
These features franchises to run until the end of 2007.
We are provide stability to the Groups earnings.
currently in discussions with the DfT to agree the Recognising the opportunities that exist in the financial arrangements around the new extensions.
enlarged company, the Cosmen family acquired a On the next round of bidding during 2006 we will substantial shareholding in the Group and we are focus on franchises where we are incumbent and, delighted that Jorge Cosmen has joined the Group as a consequence, we have withdrawn from the Board as a Non Executive Director.
competition for the South Western franchise.
8 Following the announcement relating to the GN Thameslink RESULTS AND DIVIDEND and Greater Western rail franchises, the employees of Wagn Turnover was 2.2 billion 2004 : 2.4 billion and normalised and Wessex Trains will leave the Group on 31 March this Group operating profit increased by 8.5% to 155.5 million year.
I would like to thank them for their contribution whilst 2004 : 143.3 million.
After interest and the Groups share part of the Group and wish them all the best for the future.
of losses from associated undertakings, normalised profit before tax was 135.3 million 2004 : 122.2 million.
As part of our succession planning process and following a Normalised diluted earnings per share from continuing thorough selection process, I am delighted that following the operations were 76.3 pence 2004: 69.3 pence.
retirement of Brian Jackson, Denis Wormwell was appointed Chief Executive of our UK Bus division in February.
We are recommending a final dividend of 22.25 pence per Consequently, Paul Bunting moved from Midland Mainline to ordinary share 2004: 20.65 pence, an increase of 7.7%, to replace Denis as Chief Executive of our UK Coach division.
be paid on 26 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at 28 April 2006.
Including the interim dividend, the proposed THE BOARD total dividend for the year is 32.25 pence per ordinary share After what will be ten years as Chief Executive, Phil White 2004: 30.0 pence.
We shall also be recommencing our has decided he will be retiring from the Group by the end of 100 million share buy-back programme, subject to market this year.
Phil started his career with the Group in 1994 as conditions.
Finance Director of Travel West Midlands and was appointed Chief Executive of the Group in January 1997.
He guided the CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK Groups entry into North America and subsequently into The current year has started well.
We have experienced good continental Europe with the Alsa transaction.
The Board is operational performance across all our divisions and achieved unanimous in thanking Phil for his contribution over the years early successes in the current US school bid season.
We are and wishes him well for what the next stage in his life will making good progress with the integration of Alsa and believe bring.
On a personal level I would like to thank Phil most this division will play a key role in the Groups future growth sincerely for his help and support since commencing my prospects.
tenure as Chairman in May 2004.
The process to find a successor is now underway.
I am also pleased to report that this year Phil White has taken on the role as President of the Confederation of Passenger Transport, the national trade association representing the UK bus, coach and light-rail operators.
Furthermore, with the Groups interests in rail, Ray OToole joined the British Transport Police Authority as an Authority member.
On 21 September 2005, Barry Gibson was appointed senior independent director following Tim Stevensons resignation from the Board.
I would like to thank Tim for his valuable contribution.
