Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that NEXT has had another successful year, in which we achieved good growth in both sales and profit.
Earnings per share increased by 26% and the total dividend rose by 17% to 41p.
The success of the business has been based on the continued drive to deliver well designed, good quality ranges to our customers.
We have continued to offer improved value by passing on the benefits of better buying.
Alongside the development of our ranges we have continued to expand our store portfolio, the new space has performed well and has provided an excellent return on the capital invested.
Profits resulting from a successful trading strategy have continued to be enhanced through share buybacks.
We began to buy back our shares in March 2000 and since then we have bought and cancelled 113 million shares representing 30% of the shares in issue at that date, at an average price of 797p.
During the year we appointed two new non-executive directors, Jonathan Dawson who joined the Board on 13 May 2004, and Christine Cross who joined on 19 January 2005.
In September of last year we indicated that we expected 2005 to be more challenging.
Whilst it is important not to draw too many conclusions from short periods of time, the first seven weeks of the current year would suggest that our caution was well placed.
After many years in retail I am acutely aware that over-reaction to a difficult consumer environment can do more damage than the poor environment itself, and I am pleased that NEXT is clear about what needs to be done.
We will continue to focus, first and foremost, on delivering the right product ranges to our customers.
We will not be diverted from taking profitable new space and we will make extra efforts to manage our costs without making cuts that may damage the long term prospects of the Company.
NEXT has a strong balance sheet, very healthy net margins and is well placed to cope with the challenges of the year ahead.
I remain confident that despite challenging trading conditions we will be able to advance both total sales and profits in the coming year.
David Jones CBE Chairman 23 March 2005 2
