Chairmans review: We have made significant progress on our journey of transformation as we work to realise our potential as the supplier of choice to UK and Irish retailers in added value convenience foods.
Peter Blackburn Chairman 02 Chairmans review Northern Foods plc Results Dividend We have made significant progress on our journey of transformation The boards confidence in the management teams ability to deliver our as we work to realise our potential as the supplier of choice to UK business change programme leads it to recommend an increased final and Irish retailers in added value convenience foods.
dividend of 5.70 pence per share 2004: 5.60 pence.
Together with the increased interim dividend of 3.35 pence per share 2004: 3.30 pence Following a period of disappointing financial performance, we began paid in March 2005, this makes a total dividend for the year of the work of restructuring and refocusing the business in Autumn 9.05 pence 2004: 8.90 pence, a rise of 1.7 per cent.
The arrival of our new Chief Executive, Pat ODriscoll, at the end of March 2004 accelerated the pace.
In the last 12 months, Share buyback a comprehensive strategic review of the business has taken place, We have made no share buybacks in the second half of the year.
a new management team has been established and a simplified A total of 15.6 million shares were acquired in the first half at a business structure and factory reorganisation has been implemented.
Further sales of non-core businesses have been made and the company has moved to new headquarters in Leeds.
The significant changes The board that we have made during the year have given Northern Foods a In February 2005 we announced that Tony Hobson, currently Deputy sound platform from which to move forward.
Chairman, will succeed me as Chairman of Northern Foods following my planned retirement from the board in July 2005.
Tony joined the board Despite tough market conditions and difficult Christmas trading, in May 2002 as Deputy Chairman and senior independent director.
continuing sales grew at 2.0 per cent to 1,416.1 million.
The Ambient division showed strong performances with continuing sales Colin Dyer, currently non-executive director and chair of the audit up 7.5 per cent, and continuing operating profit before goodwill committee will become Deputy Chairman.
Orna Ni-Chionna, currently amortisation and exceptional items up 19.8 per cent to 31.5 million.
a non-executive director will become chair of the remuneration Results from the Frozen division were broadly stable with continuing committee, and senior independent director.
David Nish will join operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items the board as a non-executive director, on 1 July 2005 and will chair held at 36.1 million.
The performance of the Chilled division was the audit committee.
disappointing with continuing sales up 2.0 per cent, but continuing operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items In May 2005 Jez Maiden was appointed Finance Director at a date was down 19.2 per cent to 35.0 million.
During the financial year Ian Ellis acted as Head of Finance and we are very grateful for his contribution.
Pre-tax profit Pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was Sean Christie resigned as Finance Director by mutual consent 80.2 million, a reduction of 6.7 per cent against last year.
Main board director Howard Sims resigned in earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional from the board on 30 June 2004 and retired from the company on items of 12.95 pence 2004: 13.77 pence.
Pre-tax profit after goodwill 31 December 2004.
On 11 March 2005 we announced the appointment amortisation and exceptional items was 4.3 million compared to of Carol Williams as Company Secretary following Julian Wilds 75.4 million last year, resulting in earnings per share of 0.53 pence departure from the business after 26 years.
Our thanks go to Sean, 2004: 12.78 pence.
Operating exceptional items of 46.4 million included Howard and Julian for their services to the company.
45.3 million relating to factory closures and group reorganisation.
Outlook Financial position Trading for the first seven weeks of the year is in line with our Northern Foods financial position remains sound and net debt remains expectations, but clearly this is an early view in a fast moving stable at 333.3 million.
Our business is characterised by strong and challenging market.
Over the next two years we will continue to address the pension deficit and will bear exceptional cash costs associated with I will shortly leave the company under the leadership of Tony Hobson the restructuring of the business.
However, we expect to remain and Pat ODriscoll and have every confidence in their ability to comfortably positioned against our key measure of financial strength achieve our plans and ambitions for Northern Foods and its customers, interest cover throughout this period.
At the 2005 year end shareholders and employees.
We are building momentum towards interest cover before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items a new Northern Foods.
Peter Blackburn Chairman 1 June 2005 Analysed in the turnover and segmental analysis Northern Foods plc Chairmans review 03
