Chairmans Statement Northgate is well positioned to meet the changing needs of our clients and thereby deliver value for shareholders.
Each division is profitable, cash generative and is benefiting from increasing customer demand Introduction The Group is positioned for further profitable growth.
Northgate Information Solutions is the UKs leading supplier Management will grow the products and services under the of specialist software and IT services for the human Northgate umbrella organically, by investing in growing areas of resources and public services markets.
The recent acquisition the current business and by bolt-on acquisitions.
of Service and Systems Solutions Limited Sx3 has continued the transformation of the Group and enhanced our marketWe have been able to strengthen the Board during the year with leading positions.
the addition of David Meaden and Malcolm Aldis as Executive Directors.
Nick Starritt and David Hodgson have also joined the The Group now consists of three substantial businesses human Board as Non-Executive Directors.
resources, public services applications and managed services.
Each is a market leader with attractive growth prospects based The Board would like to thank management and staff on customer retention, enhanced cross-selling opportunities and throughout the Group for their continued hard work and growing demand for additional value added consultancy and commitment during the period.
We would also like to thank our other services.
customers for their continued support.
We remain extremely grateful for the trust that they place in us, in giving us The Board is pleased with managements ability to turn strong responsibility for their critical systems.
market positions into shareholder value.
In the last 3 years, the Group has delivered compound revenue growth of 57.1%: operating profit excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items growth of 168.0%: and adjusted EPS growth of 60.8%.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 3 Chairmans Statement continued Financial Results Turnover has increased by 50.7% to 205.7 million 2004: The final net consideration for Sx3 was 143.4 million, 136.5 million and trading continues to be strong across the comprising the initially reported 155.0 million net of 11.6 Group.
million of cash and loan balances at completion.
These cash balances reflected positive working capital movements as well Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill as certain funds required to meet costs of the transaction.
For amortisation was 32.5 million 2004: 11.7 million.
This the 12 months ended 31 March 2005, Sx3 contributed reported included a first time contribution of 0.5 million from revenues of 127.5 million 2004: 117.3 million and operating acquisitions CIM Systems, MVM Holdings and Sx3.
profit before goodwill amortisation of 13.8 million 2004: 7.1 million to its previous owners.
Northgate reported a statutory profit before tax of 3.9 million 2004: 10.0 million loss.
The acquisition is expected to be earnings enhancing before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items in the year ending Adjusted EPS grew by 67.1% to 4.73p 2004: 2.83p, driven by 30 April 2006. the positive trading performance in the year.
Basic EPS improved to 0.82p 2004: loss per share of 2.94p.
In February, Northgate completed the acquisition of MVM Holdings from Anglian Water Group for 12.9 million.
The Group has highly visible forward revenue streams.
The order MVM Holdings specialises in the development and sales of book stood at 370.3 million 2004: 185.8 million at the yearsoftware to local government and utilities customers.
Of this, 157.4 million falls in the year to April 2006.
With Its circa 330 local government customers offer significant crossthe enhanced scale of the Group, additional cross-selling selling opportunities for other parts of the Group, and the opportunities are increasingly being exploited.
position with utilities customers complements Sx3s position in the provision of managed services to this sector.
Northgate continues to enjoy strong cash flow.
Operating cash inflow cash generation before capital expenditure, acquisitions, In September, Northgate acquired CIM Systems for 1.7 million.
interest, dividends and tax for the 12 months was 33.3 million CIM Systems is a leading supplier of integrated communications 2004: 13.7 million.
systems to public safety organisations in the UK and Europe.
Again, this has enhanced Northgates presence in the public services Net debt was 173.5 million 2004: 57.1 million, reflecting the market and gives the Group additional cross-selling opportunities.
157.7 million spent on acquisitions in the period.
In light of the Groups strong cash generating properties, the Board is confident Outlook that Northgate can reduce its debt in the medium term, while Northgate is well positioned to meet the changing needs of our still investing in future growth.
We believe that the investment clients and thereby deliver value for shareholders.
Each division of internal funds to implement our strategy will maximise is profitable, cash generative and is benefiting from increasing shareholder value and accordingly, the Directors have decided customer demand.
that the payment of a dividend is not appropriate at this time.
Managements priorities are clear: extracting value from our Acquisitions acquisitions, delivering organic growth and exploiting crossDuring the year, Northgate has made three successful selling opportunities.
The current year has started well and we acquisitions of note, in line with our ongoing strategy to become anticipate another satisfactory outcome.
a leading player in each of our chosen markets.
The 143.4 million net of cash acquired acquisition of Sx3 in April 2005 provides an excellent opportunity for Northgate to strengthen our position as a consolidator in the fragmented UK local government market by acquiring a leader in local authority housing and revenues and benefits applications.
As well as Nick Irens strengthening our public services division, Sx3 also brings Chairman significant scale to our IT managed service activities.
In 27 June 2005 particular, it opens up new opportunities in the education and utilities markets.
