02 Chairmans statement Business highlights This year has been dominated by the Ofwat review of price limits and the culmination of the regulatory process Our operating performance to set them for the next five years.
As the focus of the Group is largely on continues to be strong our core business, the decision of the and, alongside the high water regulator, Ofwat, was particularly important to us.
standards of service expected by customers, The regulators final determination, announced in December 2004, we are confident NWG was more balanced than the draft determination announced earlier in will continue to deliver the year, but it still contains tough and value to its shareholders.
The NWL board accepted the new price limits at its meeting on 15 December 2004 and that decision has been endorsed by the NWG Board.
We are pleased that this period of uncertainty is now behind us.
We have completed the financial restructuring programme initiated following the AIM listing in May 2003 and have removed any concerns that may have existed at that time.
We were confident of the sustainability of the business, but said it would take time to conclude the actions we believed were needed.
Our improved credit rating, the willingness of the market to lend us money and the growth in our share price over the year demonstrates that others now share our confidence.
Recent stock market activity has included the sale by Suez of its 25% shareholding in the Group to Ontario Teachers, a Canadian pension fund.
The Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board is one of Canadas largest financial institutions which invests to secure the retirement income of 255,000 active and retired teachers of the province of Ontario, Canada.
We have enjoyed a long and successful relationship with Suez and are delighted that Ontario Teachers have shown faith in the strength of our Group.
It is pleasing to note that their commitment to us is because they value the focus of the Group.
03 Financial performance acquisition facilities, NWLs successful 1 Turnover for the year to 31 March 2005 application for an interim price increase was 578.6 million, an increase of 11% from April 2004 and the outcome of on the pro forma turnover for the year the more recent periodic review of to 31 March 2004 ten months to 31 price limits.
March 2004: 442.1 million: 2003 04 pro forma: 520.8 million, largely due The Board will recommend a final to the 10% real increase in NWLs price dividend of 7.13 pence per share for limits granted by Ofwat in December the year ended 31 March 2005 to 2003, for application during the year.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 28 July 2005.
Operating profit for the year to Together with the interim dividend of 31 March 2005 was 204.7 million, 2.87 pence per share, the dividend for a 25% increase on the pro forma the year will be 10.00 pence per share 2 3 for the previous year ten months to ten months to 31 March 2004: 6.95 31 March 2004: 143.6 million: pence per share.
This represents an 2003 04 pro forma: 164.3 million.
increase of 20% on the dividend for the 2003 04 pro forma trading period.
The We strengthened our financial dividend cover for the year is 1.9 times structure: in May 2004, we raised a and 1.8 excluding deferred tax and the net 212 million by securitising our amortisation of the debt fair value.
contract with the Environment Agency EA to operate the Kielder Water The proposed dividend reflects transfer scheme.
In December 2004, increased confidence following the we increased NWLs 2033 Eurobond by substantial improvements made to 1.
Sir Fred taking part in a Just an hour challenge leading a a further 100 million and, since the the Groups balance sheet over the last lesson on global warming at Framwellgate School, Durham.
Sir Fred at the launch of Making waves, our initiative year end, we negotiated committed year and the removal of uncertainty to encourage young people to make an impact in their bank facilities for NSL and NWL.
NSL following the Ofwat periodic review local community.
NWL's Team Leader Development Programme.
will use facilities amounting to 125 of prices.
million, together with available cash, to cover the repayment of its 2006 The board of our main subsidiary, Eurobonds maturing in June next year.
NWL, has proposed a dividend policy Facilities of 150 million at NWL are consistent with the underlying for liquidity and working capital assumptions adopted by Ofwat in requirements.
The credit rating of our core business, Looking to the end of the current NWL, has also improved.
We received regulatory period, NWG expects our first Moodys credit rating for NWL to be able to maintain a progressive of Baa1 in April 2004 consistent with dividend policy with real increases the Fitch rating of BBB announced on of around 3% p. a.
11 December 2003 and, during the same month, Standard & Poors S&Ps The Board believes this provides improved its outlook for NWL from BBB shareholders with a sustainable stable to BBB positive.
This rating was policy consistent with the regulatory further improved on 25 January 2005 environment within which NWL when S&Ps upgraded its rating of NWL operates and reflects the ongoing to BBB stable.
benefits at the Group from refinancing.
The policy is also consistent with NWG has experienced significant share maintaining Group and NWL gearing at price growth since its flotation, and around current levels over the medium we believe this reflects the actions we term excluding the unamortised fair have taken to address the short term value adjustment, due to acquisition liquidity concerns of the ratings debt at 23 May 2003. agencies, the refinancing of the Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 04 Chairmans statement continued 1 Employees of subsidiary companies in this report, Once again, the Board and I are grateful I would like to place on record my for the continuing commitment and thanks to the members of the board of support of employees throughout the NWL, for their dedication in what has Group, and for their willingness to go been a particularly important and busy beyond the call of duty.
In addition to their involvement with the long and complex price review This year, our staff had the opportunity process, the NWL board also met with to show just how committed they are members of the NWG Board to consider and to demonstrate, very publicly, the Hexham incident and the lessons their dedication to their customers to be learned.
The two boards are and their company.
An incident separate, and each has its complement occurred in January 2005 in Hexham, of independent non-executive directors, Northumberland, where extremes of but it is useful for the two to come floodwater washed away the water together on occasions such as this to mains serving the town.
Long hours consider matters that affect the success were spent in very difficult weather of both companies.
conditions installing a new temporary supply in record time.
Employees from As we announced last year, Jenny around the business volunteered for Williams and Bernard Guirkinger joined a variety of tasks including: handing the Board on 27 May 2004, Jenny as an out bottled water: deploying and independent non-executive director refilling static water tanks: delivering and Bernard as a Suez representative.
information to customers homes and I would like to express my thanks to 2 3 carefully restoring pressure in the Alain Chaigneau, the second Suez mains.
At the same time, other staff representative, who stood down from provided cover for the day-to-day the Board on 17 March 2005, and was business that continued uninterrupted replaced by Christophe Cros on the throughout the entire period.
Following the disposal by Suez of its 25% shareholding in NWG, I know from meeting customers and the both Bernard and Christophe resigned letters we have received that the people on 28 April 2005 and I would like to of Hexham were very appreciative of extend my gratitude for their support.
It is an excellent example of the commitment We were pleased to learn in December and team spirit that has helped NWL last year that non-executive director to deliver consistently high service over Derek Wanless had been made a knight the years.
bachelor in the New Years Honours list 1.
NWL's Don Coe at Hexham's water bottle distribution point picture courtesy of the Hexham Courant.
in recognition of his public service.
A diver investigating the damaged water mains beneath I would like to record my personal warmly congratulate Sir Derek.
Severe flooding at Corbridge picture courtesy of the thanks, and those of the NWG and Hexham Courant.
NWL boards, to all the employees Strategy and prospects who played their part in resolving this Now that we know the outcome of the extraordinary situation.
Ofwat periodic review, and with our financial restructuring complete, we Board can devote all our efforts to achieving We have two main boards within the our objectives by concentrating on our Group, for NWG and NWL, both of core competencies across the Group.
The other subsidiaries also Our operating performance continues have boards, which report to the NWG to be strong and, alongside the high Board on a regular basis.
The corporate standards of service expected by governance report within this annual customers, we are confident NWG report sets out the number of occasions will continue to deliver value to on which the NWG Board has met its shareholders.
and the various other committees that Board members have attended in the performance of their duties.
Sir Frederick Holliday Chairman Although we are not required to report 7 June 2005 in detail on the activities of the boards 05 Case study The effectiveness of our emergency planning and the willingness of our employees to go beyond the call of duty were put to the test earlier this year.
Torrential rain swept away two water mains buried beneath the River Tyne and 6,800 properties were without water for up to seven days.
We worked around the clock to install a 5.5 km temporary water main in only three days.
342 employees spent 12,000 hours dealing with the emergency.
325,000 bottles of water were distributed and 121 static water bowsers were filled by 15 tankers.
To keep customers informed, 28,000 letters were delivered to homes and information was provided in over 280 national and local TV, radio and newspaper reports.
Following the event, we established a fund to support community projects in the Hexham area as a thank you for the patience and understanding of residents during the disruption.
NWL's John Mowbray discussing the Hexham incident with Peter Atkinson, MP alongside the River Tyne at Hexham, Northumberland.
The Hexham incident Northumbrian W Northumbrian Water Gr ater Group plc oup plc Annual r Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 eport and financial statements 2004 05
