CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Evans Halshaw Ford St Albans part of our largest UK franchise Receptionist - Julie Thompson Dear Shareholder We have had a successful year in 2005, not only in respect of our good financial results, but also in completing the integration of the CD Bramall business ahead of schedule, creating partnerships with manufacturers previously not represented and strengthening our balance sheet.
We added 50 franchises at 20 locations in 2005, of which 25 of the franchises are on greenfield sites.
The achievement of our objectives, in a year when the new car market was down by five per cent, underlines the strength in depth of our management team and the robustness of our business model.
Group sales for the year ended 31 December 2005 have risen to 3.3 billion compared to 3.2 billion in 2004.
Profit before tax and exceptionals is up by 11.7 per cent to 59.3 million from 53.1 million in 2004.
Earnings per share on this basis increased 11.3 per cent to 33.4 pence.
On a statutory basis, including exceptionals and goodwill impairment, pre tax profit was 63.8 million and earnings per share were 34.8 pence.
Your Board has proposed a final dividend of 6.6 pence, which together with the interim dividend of 6.6 pence, gives a full year dividend of 13.2 pence, an increase of 29.4 per cent.
The uplift in the dividend reflects both the confidence your Board has in the future prospects of the group and the step up in the earnings capacity after the major acquisition made in 2004.
We reduced net debt in the year by 69.8 million to 177.0 million which represents gearing of 70 per cent.
We have managed our cash well during the year and at the same time taken advantage of investment opportunities in new businesses.
We have clearly shown over the past two years that we have, as with previous major acquisitions undertaken with debt, controlled the enlarged business and generated the cash to reduce our debt quickly.
Our strategy is to continue to grow with the manufacturers we currently represent and to introduce new brands where we believe this to be in line with our long term plans.
We have an integrated business model, industry leading management information across each of our franchise focused groups and innovative activities in our customer services centre, all of which are delivering benefits to the business.
Our team members have delivered these results during a year where the market has been less buoyant and my colleagues on the Board and I extend our thanks to them for their hard work and commitment.
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman 9 February 2006 2 Stratstone SAAB Nottingham Opened in 2005
