CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Ken Harvey Chairman Pennon Group Plc THE GROUP HAS DELIVERED EXCELLENT RESULTS THIS YEAR.
THEY DEMONSTRATE FURTHER PROFITABLE GROWTH AND AFFIRM OUR STRATEGY OF FOCUSING ON OUR TWO KEY BUSINESSES, SOUTH WEST WATER LIMITED AND VIRIDOR WASTE LIMITED.
The Final Determination represents another very tough FINANCIAL OVERVIEW challenge for South West Water, but the company has Group turnover rose by 17.6% to 554.2 million, due already instigated a number of restructuring and mainly to increased revenue generated by the Ofwat organisational initiatives aimed at delivering the approved tariff increases in South West Water and from demanding efficiency targets imposed.
another year of strong trading by Viridor Waste.
During the year, South West Water continued to provide Before exceptional items and goodwill, operating profit high levels of product and customer service whilst the increased by 9.1% to 151.5 million, profit before tax successful delivery of its environmental enhancement increased by 10.9% to 87.4 million and earnings per share programme continued to ensure the region is able to before deferred tax saw an increase of 9.4% to 63.1p.
boast some of Europes finest bathing waters, beaches and rivers.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 29.2p per share, a 5.0% increase in line with the Boards Excellent progress was also made in the area of water previously stated progressive dividend policy.
Together mains rehabilitation where the companys enhanced with the interim dividend of 13.8p, this will result in a programme delivered record lengths of renovated total dividend for the year of 43.0p, a 4.9% increase on water mains.
the total dividend for the previous year.
Another creditable success during the year was South As confirmed at the time of the Groups interim results in West Waters progress within the 2003 04 Ofwat Overall December 2004, the Board intends to continue to Performance Assessment, which saw the company increase the Group dividend in real terms, at least up to achieve one of the best performance improvements of all 2009 10 and following its successful re-introduction two the sector companies.
years ago, the Board also intends to offer shareholders a scrip dividend alternative.
VIRIDOR WASTE LIMITED Viridor Waste delivered strong financial performance SOUTH WEST WATER LIMITED during the year with turnover showing a 35.6% increase and operating profit before goodwill a 31.3% increase.
The year was dominated by the final stages of the Periodic Review process for the period 2005-2010.
This Since 2000 01, operating profit before goodwill has culminated in Ofwat confirming average price increases grown at a compound rate of 22.8% per annum, with of around 25% in real terms over the five year period.
approximately 12% from organic income streams and the remainder via acquisitions.
A great deal of time, energy and expertise was devoted to the whole Review process throughout which South West The previous years acquisition, Churngold Holdings Water endeavoured to strike the right balance between Limited, has been fully integrated into the business and value for money investment, financeability and customer was earnings enhancing after goodwill amortisation one affordability.
This was achieved against a backdrop of year earlier than predicted at acquisition.
acknowledging that further price increases were inevitable in order that the company would be able to meet Governmental and regulatory requirements.
2 Pennon Group Plc Thames Waste Management Limited was acquired in April For financial years beginning 1 April 2005, Directors of 2004 and this too has been fully integrated into the UK quoted companies are required to provide an business and is performing well ahead of forecasts.
Both Operating and Financial Review OFR in their Annual acquisitions reinforced Viridor Wastes stated strategy of Reports.
Whilst Pennon is not required to provide an OFR capitalising on its strong position in the landfill waste in this Annual Report, it has decided to provide further disposal market, exploiting opportunities in renewable information about the Group and its business in an OFR energy from landfill gas and pursuing profitable format.
The aim is to achieve the principal objectives of opportunities in line with the Governments developing the OFR which are designed to assist investors in waste strategy.
assessing the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to be achieved.
In addition to its existing activities, Viridor Waste is developing a range of new technologies at various The OFR reporting standards have been confirmed only locations throughout the UK in anticipation of the very recently.
Whilst the Company has endeavoured to importance of technology as councils endeavour to meet take them into account, the OFR produced for this Annual their European Landfill Directive targets via the diversion Report, although being comprehensive, will not be of an increasing proportion of municipal waste from totally compliant with the full reporting standards.
Preparations for the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are well underway.
These STRATEGY AND PROSPECTS come into effect from 1 April 2005 and the principal differences between the previous UK and international The Boards priority continues to be the creation of accounting standards likely to impact on the Group are shareholder value via its strategic focus on water and detailed on pages 86 to 88. sewerage services and waste management.
The Group financial results for the year are testament to the Boards strategy of focusing on these key business areas and EMPLOYEES underpin its resolve to continue its existing progressive Throughout the many structural and organisational dividend policy of increasing the Group dividend in real changes that have taken place within the Group over the terms until at least 2009 10. years, our employees have adapted to change, adopted The Board is confident that South West Water will new working practices and philosophies and have always successfully deliver the regulatory challenges imposed performed superbly to ensure the Group remains for the K4 period 2005-2010 and significantly increase profitable, successful and a leading player in its sector.
I its regulatory asset value up to 2010.
Viridor Wastes thank them and my fellow Directors most sincerely for successful philosophy of creating long-term sustainable their unstinting support and loyalty which has helped the profit growth is expected to continue as it pursues its Group achieve its goals yet again.
BEST PRACTICE The Pennon Group prides itself in being in the vanguard of change, especially in the areas of innovation and best practice.
Indeed, the Group has received many accolades KEN HARVEY, Chairman, Pennon Group Plc for various elements of its business including its green 23 June 2005 credentials, its progress in the area of corporate responsibility and financial reporting.
