Chairmans statement These results demonstrate the growing position and reputation that we are building in our core markets.
Over the past year, we have increased revenue by 56% to US$1,485 million and net profit by 64% to US$75.4 million.
Market overview 2005 was characterised by high commodity prices with Brent oil averaging nearly US$55 per barrel and Henry Hub Gas average price approaching US$9 per million British thermal unit mmbtu, respectively over 40% and 50% above 2004 averages.
Energy prices remained volatile as OPECs surplus capacity averaged less than 2 million barrels per day bpd for the third year running and a series of unrelated factors caused disruption to energy supplies across the world.
Our industry faces the challenge of meeting the worlds increasing demand for energy fuelled by good economic growth and from the still relatively low energy intensive economies of China and the Indian subcontinent.
In addition, the industry is struggling with rising rates of depletion of existing production, particularly as the super-major fields in the Middle East reach their maturity.
These twin challenges I am delighted to report on a year of significant will require a sustained period of increased capital investment in order achievements for Petrofac and to present the to bring on more production every year.
It will not be easy to build a greater level of surplus capacity back into the worlds system, but we financial results for the year ended and others are committed to this effort.
As a company that designs, builds, operates and invests in oil & gas infrastructure, Petrofac is very much involved in helping to address these challenges.
While the increasing use of renewable energy sources and greater energy conservation will both help to bring the supply and demand for energy into balance, there remains a pressing need to develop more oil & gas reserves every year.
We are working hard to help our clients meet this need and we enter 2006 with a record backlog of approximately US$3.2 billion.
We are well placed to take advantage of new opportunities as they arise over the coming year.
4 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 Dividend Corporate governance The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.87 cents per As Chairman of the Board, I am very conscious that one of my ordinary share with an equivalent of 1.07 pence per ordinary share principal objectives is to ensure that the Board fulfils its obligations to being payable which, if approved, will be paid on 31 May 2006 to shareholders and stakeholders without stifling the Companys eligible shareholders on the register at 28 April 2006.
The Board has an important duty to ensure final dividend reflects the fact that the Company was listed for good governance, and I believe that this effort will aid our growth approximately three months of the 2005 financial year and is strategy and help to maximise long term value for our shareholders.
approximately half the level that would have been declared had As part of our role, my directors and I will test the Companys Petrofac been listed for the whole of the 2005 financial year, having strategic direction, monitor its operations in pursuit of that strategy taken account of the intention to pay two-thirds of the annual and seek to ensure that Petrofacs activities are consistent with our dividend as a final dividend.
stated values and deliver superior shareholder returns.
Admission to the London Stock Exchange I look forward with confidence to another challenging and exciting Petrofacs admission to listing on the London Stock Exchange was a year ahead.
major highlight of our year.
Due to the strength and depth of the executive management team, this major exercise had no discernible impact on our operational performance during the year.
The institutional marketing, which represented almost 50% of the Companys shares, was well received by the market and, since listing, our share price has performed well.
The Company was admitted into the FTSE 250 index in December 2005.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome all of our new shareholders into Petrofac.
Rodney Chase Chairman Our people After four years with the group, during which time he played a key role in establishing our Woking based engineering business, Dr Mike Stacey stepped down from the Board and retired from the Company.
I would like to thank him for his contribution and wish him a happy retirement.
Also, immediately prior to the Companys admission to the London Stock Exchange, Amjad Bseisu and Robin Pinchbeck left the Board although they both continue in their roles as Divisional Chief Executives.
Kjell Almskog and I joined the Board during the year.
As a provider of facilities solutions to the oil & gas production and processing industry, the Companys greatest resource is its people.
This has been an exceptional year, both for the Companys business performance and its corporate development and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for the tremendous way they have responded to the challenges of 2005.
88% Earnings per share diluted 1.87cents Final dividend per ordinary share Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 5
