Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chairmans statement This year we have set new records in many areas, including sales of added value products supplied by Arla Foods amba, direct milk purchases from our UK producer partners, and investment in state-of-the-art facilities.
With the full 20 million merger synergies now achieved, a year ahead of schedule, we are focusing on the delivery of shareholder value through profitable sales growth and relentless attention to our cost base.
Results Our results from continuing operations for the year to 30 September 2005 are in line with our expectations.
Sales from continuing operations rose by 4.6 per cent to 1,320.3 million 12 months to 30 September 2004: 1,262.7 million and underlying pre-tax profit increased by 5.2 per cent to 44.5 million 12 months to 30 September 2004: 42.3 million.
Planned merger cost savings were delivered ahead of schedule, though the benefits of price increases negotiated with our customers early in 2005 were more than negated by further exceptional increases in energy, packaging and distribution costs resulting from higher oil prices.
Profit before taxation was 14.7 million 12 months to 30 September 2004: loss of 4.2 million after exceptional costs Sir David Naish DL of 17.5 million 12 months to 30 September 2004: 34.7 million.
Chairman Adjusted earnings per share increased by 21.3 per cent to 5.7 pence 12 months to 30 September 2004: 4.7 pence, while basic earnings per share were 1.9 pence 12 months to 30 September 2004: 0.9 pence.
Strong financial position Net debt at 30 September 2005 was 143.3 million 2004: 164.1 million.
The reduction in debt from 186.2 million in our interim balance sheet at 31 March 2005 reflected completion shortly before the year end of a 32.2 million sale-and-operating leaseback transaction on dairy equipment at our new Stourton site.
We maintained comfortable interest cover by operating profit, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, of 4.2 times 2004: 4.1 times.
Progressive dividend policy The board recommends an increased final dividend of 0.75 pence per share 2004: 0.7 pence.
Together with the increased interim dividend of 0.65 pence per share paid in August, this makes a total dividend for the year of 1.4 pence 12 months to September 2004: 1.3 pence, a rise of 7.7 per cent.
The board remains committed to pursuing a progressive dividend policy that reflects the groups long-term earnings potential and cash flow, whilst maintaining appropriate levels of cover.
Growing brands, maintaining leadership Both Lurpak and Anchor have continued to gain market share.
Cravendale has resumed its strong growth following the investment in additional production capacity.
The major reconfiguration of milk supply begun by the retailers early in 2004 has now concluded, with the group retaining the leading share of the fresh milk market held by Arla and Express Dairies when they merged in 2003.
Reducing costs The post-merger rationalisation of production facilities is on track and efficiencies are benefiting from the completion of a record investment Before exceptional items, goodwill programme.
These actions have produced excellent levels of asset amortisation and discontinued operations 01 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chairmans statement Arla Foods UK plc share price vs Arla Foods UK plc share price vs FTSE 250 FTSE Food Producers and Processors continued 2004 2005 2004 2005 ON D J F MAM J J AS ON D J F MAM J J AS Arla FTSE 250 Arla FTSE Food Producers and Processors utilisation.
We have also adopted a new operating model in our home People delivery business, Express Dairies, which features a renewed focus on Once again I would like to extend my thanks to all our people for core activities and a leaner cost structure.
their considerable contribution to the success of the business.
Extending our Partnership Outlook We are delighted to have expanded our successful Arla Foods Milk We anticipate continued growth in both our branded and retailer Partnership AFMP, which now has over 1,600 members and supplies branded business, supported by effective marketing programmes some 70 per cent of our total milk requirements.
Recent pressure on and the launch of new products.
While pursuing our ambitions for raw milk prices is an anticipated consequence of Common Agricultural growth, we will maintain an equally strong focus on the control of Policy CAP reform, which has introduced Single Farm Payments to costs, and are seeking selling prices that reflect the realities of producers by way of compensation.
We have maintained our position substantially increased packaging and fuel costs.
relative to other major producers, and our milk price to farmers is currently similar to its level a year ago.
In light of the continued uncertainty concerning the real impact of CAP reform and the highly competitive markets in which we The board operate, we believe there will be downward pressure on raw milk Tim Smith became Chief Executive on 1 June 2005, on the retirement prices across the UK dairy sector.
Our portfolio of products alleviates of Neil Davidson.
We are benefiting from his wide experience in the this pressure to some extent, but we will not allow ourselves to food industry, and his determined focus both on pursuing growth be disadvantaged in the marketplace.
We anticipate being active and driving down costs.
Following his evaluation of our future needs, participants in the next stage of our industrys rationalisation, which a major restructure took effect on 7 November 2005.
This simplified should see changes to the supply of fresh milk to the middleground our business units and functions through the creation of two new and further consolidation of raw milk supplies.
Martin Gilbert, who was appointed to the board on 1 June 2005, is now Managing Director The completion of our major investment programme gives us an of the operations division and Simon Stevens, previously Executive excellent asset base, truly national distribution capabilities and strong Director, head of sales, is Managing Director of the commercial technical resources to support continued innovation.
Hanne Sondergaard, Marketing Director, resigned from the excellent people and our growing partnership with producers, board on 22 November 2005.
We thank her for her contribution to I believe that these resources allow us to view our future prospects the company and wish her success in her future career.
We anticipate that this structural change will result in the loss of some 60 senior and middle management positions over the next three months, as we focus on streamlining our organisation to meet our key objectives of operational efficiency and profitable growth.
Sir David Naish DL I am delighted to welcome two new representatives of our major Chairman shareholder, who joined the board as non-executive directors on 4 October 2005.
Peder Tuborgh and Andreas Lundby are Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director respectively of Arla Foods amba.
On the same date, ke Modig resigned from the non-executive position he had held as a representative of Arla Foods amba since October 2003.
The board would like to thank him for his contribution over the last two years.
Peter Cawdron will be retiring from the board at the conclusion of the AGM on 24 January 2006.
In his roles as Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Peter has been a valuable member of the board and we wish him well in the future.
