CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman 2 Pilkington has once again delivered results well ahead of the The Automotive business has been involved in a record number of previous year.
We have seen a good performance in Automotive, new product launches over the year and has benefited from strong with Building Products holding up, despite variable trading sales of many existing models equipped by Pilkington.
Building conditions in our markets around the world.
The Group continues Products results in Europe were affected by low industry capacity to benefit from improvements in operational efficiency and utilisation, but outside Europe Building Products results continued continuous cost reduction programmes.
on Building Products deliveries in Europe and North America have helped to alleviate the significant cost pressure from FINANCIAL RESULTS rising energy prices.
Although turnover from continuing operations, including joint ventures and associates, decreased two per cent to 2.7 billion, at constant exchange rates this was equivalent to an increase of two per cent.
Operating profit from Group businesses increased by 15 million to 195 million.
Operating profits from joint ventures and associates also increased from 33 million to 36 million, principally due to improved results in Cebrace and Shanghai Yaohua Pilkington, offsetting the profit decline at Vitro Plan SA fide CV and its subsidiaries in Mexico.
Overall operating profit increased by eight per cent from 213 million as restated to 231 million in 2005.
Profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and taxation increased from 152 million to 180 million, with lower interest charges on reduced borrowings contributing as well as improved profits from operations.
After deducting goodwill amortisation of 8 million 2004 8 million and exceptional items arising principally from the sale and termination of operations of 7 million 2004 7 million, profit before tax was 165 million, an increase of 20 per cent on the 137 million as restated achieved in 2004.
A continued focus on cash generation has enabled Pilkington to report a further reduction in net debt.
Net borrowings fell from 664 million in 2004 to 572 million at 31st March 2005.
This takes the total reduction in debt in the last three years to 348 million, or nearly 40 per cent.
The Group remains on track to begin its transition into the third phase of its strategy over the course of the next financial year, with targeted investments into profitable growth opportunities that meet our strict criteria for financial returns in our core business areas.
Earnings and dividends Earnings per share before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill increased from 7.5 pence as restated to 8.9 pence, up 19 per cent.
Basic earnings per share increased from 6.3 pence as restated to 7.8 pence, an increase of 24 per cent.
PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 This is another strong set of results from Pilkington.
The Group continues to benefit from improvements in operational efficiency and continuous cost reduction programmes.
Our continuing focus on cash generation enables us to report a further significant reduction in net debt.
Adoption of a progressive dividend policy is an indication of the boards growing confidence in the capability of the business to generate cash sustainably.
Over the course of the next financial year, we expect to begin the transition into Stage 3 of our Cash for Growth strategy, with targeted investments into profitable growth opportunities.
3 The board is recommending an increase in the final dividend to in overheads across the business.
Management attention remains 3.35 pence per share, bringing the total for the year to 5.1 pence.
focused on the generation of net free cash and achieving further The dividend is covered over two and a half times by free cash flow.
The Group remains on track to begin the This is the first increase in the dividend for ten years.
Subject to transition into the third phase of its strategy over the course of 2006. the approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 1st August 2005 to shareholders on the STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS register at 10th June 2005.
Good communications with all our stakeholders are a priority Cash flow and borrowings for Pilkington and the Groups efforts in this area were publicly Free cash flow was again strong and amounted to 172 million recognised over the past year.
Pilkington won the Communication 2004 207 million.
As expected, net cash flow before financing of Corporate Strategy award in the  2004 of 113 million was down on the record level of 188 million Building Public Trust Awards.
The awards, open to all FTSE 100 achieved in 2004.
Net borrowings fell from 664 million in 2004 to and 250 companies, aim to celebrate the public commitment of 572 million at 31st March 2005, successfully achieving an objective companies to build public trust through their willingness to embrace of the Group for Stage 2 of its programme.
This takes the total greater corporate transparency.
reduction in the last three years to 348 million, including the Building on this success and in accordance with best practice, redemption of preference shares.
Pilkington has been developing its Operating and Financial Review OFR, the new format for annual reports, which will be mandatory INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL by the time the Groups 2006 annual report is published.
This years REPORTING STANDARDS IFRS report anticipates these changes in both its format and content.
These results will be the last that Pilkington reports under UK GAAP.
At 1st April 2005, Pilkington, in order to meet the THE BOARD requirement for European Union listed companies to report under Bill Harrison will retire as a non-executive director after the annual IFRS for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2005, moves general meeting in July.
Bill has been a non-executive director since to reporting under IFRS.
The results to be reported for the half year September 1998 and the board has benefited greatly from his to September 2005 will include reconciliations between UK GAAP experience in investment banking.
I take this opportunity to thank and IFRS as required under IFRS 1.
Pilkington has planned for this him for his contribution and support.
transition for over two years and although there will be changes to the UK GAAP results and balance sheet as previously reported, the changes will not mask the underlying improving trends in PROSPECTS the robustness of Pilkingtons business.
Pilkington will release In Building Products we expect some demand recovery, although in a restatement of its 2005 results under IFRS in September 2005.
Europe surplus capacity and consequent weak pricing are expected to continue.
We anticipate further cost pressure in commodity and STRATEGY energy prices, offset in part by the energy surcharges now operating Pilkington continues to follow a clear three-stage strategy, successfully in North America and Europe.
In Automotive, global the stages of which are: vehicle build continues to grow and Pilkington Automotive is well placed to win new, and grow existing business.
The Group continues First to improve the operational fitness of the businesses: to benefit from the reducing level of interest-bearing debt.
Over Second to produce net free cash from operations, initially the next year, our priorities are to maintain the momentum on costs to reduce debt: and then established under Stage 1 of our three-stage strategy, to complete Third to invest net free cash in future profitable growth.
Stage 2, achieving a position of financial strength, and to begin the Over the past seven years, radical improvements have been made in transition to Stage 3, through increased investment in profitable the Groups manufacturing performance, with significant reductions growth.
Overall we expect to make further progress in 2005 2006.
PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005
