A year of progress Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that this has been another successful year for the Group with increased like-for-like sales and operating margins, and a strengthened brand portfolio.
At the time of writing my statement in last years Annual Report, the Group had recently suffered a major fire at its Bury St Edmunds factory, an inventory overhang leading to reduced sales in January 2005 and was involved in the Sudan 1 recall initiated by the Food Standards Agency.
The management and employees responded splendidly to these challenges whilst continuing to drive the business forward through organic development and strengthening the brand portfolio.
Organic development The highlight of the Groups branded development was the growth of our drive brands whose sales grew by 10% over the year.
Sales grew, on a pro forma basis, by 2.8%.
Like-for-like trading profit margins also improved in line with our target of 50 basis points through the improvement in our branded sales mix and efficiencies in manufacturing and logistics.
The most significant launch in the year has been that of Branston Beans.
Following the transfer of ownership of HP Foods to Heinz in August 2005, the Group considered it unlikely that its licence to use the HP brand on canned beans and pasta, due to expire in March 2006, would be renewed.
It was a fantastic achievement by all the management and employees concerned that they were able to develop the concept, recipe, consumer rationale and present the products to the retailers in only 11 weeks.
The launch has gone very well and these excellent products have been received very positively by consumers and retailers.
The performance of our potatoes business was disappointing during 2005.
This was primarily due to contracts lost at the end of 2004 as a result of retailers consolidating their supplier base.
Management has worked hard during the year to stabilise the business, reduce its cost base and realign its product range with its customers.
This has been successfully completed and the business has recently started to regain contracts.
Acquisitions and disposals The Group constantly monitors the performance and trading environment of all its brands and businesses.
It seeks to add strong brands and market positions to its portfolio and it is also prepared to sell those brands and businesses where the value to the Group can be improved through disposal.
In line with the Groups strict strategic and financial criteria, the Group acquired the Birds desserts business in February 2005, the UKs leading meat alternative brand Quorn in June and the UKs second largest meat alternative brand, Cauldron, in October.
The focus of the acquisition of the Birds business was the synergies achievable through adding the category-leading Birds and Angel Delight brands to our existing Desserts business.
Quorn and Cauldron are the leading brands in the meat-alternative category which benefits from the increasing focus of the UK consumer on healthier eating.
The acquisition of both of these businesses enhances the growth prospects for the Group and gives us a unique understanding of this fast-growing category.
02 Premier Foods plc The Group had made significant progress over the last five years developing the profitability and competitiveness of its tea business.
However, during the year, it was identified that the opportunities to develop the business further were restricted by its lack of vertical integration when compared to its main competitors and the long-term decline of the tea category in the UK market.
As a result, the Group decided to dispose of the business, which it 14.
In addition, a review of the Groups Netherlands-based Dividend per share convenience foods business, Jonker Fris, concluded that it did not have sufficient scale to compete effectively in the European convenience foods market and it was therefore sold in December 2005.
Employees I would like to thank all employees for their efforts towards the performance of the Group this year and particularly for their tremendous response to the challenges presented in rebuilding the Bury St Edmunds factory after the fire at the end of 2004.
Also in implementing an enhanced raw materials testing regime following the Sudan 1 product recall, the launch of Branston Beans and integrating our acquisitions whilst not losing focus on driving the organic growth of the business.
Their response to all these challenges serves to exemplify the can do attitude of all our employees.
Dividends The directors are pleased to recommend the payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005 of 9.50p per share which, together with the interim dividend of 4.75p per share already paid, makes a total of 14.25p.
The final dividend will be paid on 7 July 2006 to shareholders on the register on 9 June 2006.
The directors intend to maintain a policy of increasing dividends in line with our mid single-digit organic earnings growth target.
Board changes I would like to thank Lyndon Lea and George Sewell who resigned from the Board at the conclusion of the last annual general meeting, in May 2005, for their contribution.
Looking to the future The trading environment for food companies continues to be tough and inflationary pressures remain a concern.
However, the Board is confident that the right management and strategy are in place to build on the excellent progress made during 2005 towards our objective of becoming the leading supplier of grocery products in the UK.
David J Kappler Chairman 03 Premier Foods plc Chairmans statement
