CHAIRMANS STATEMENT As market liberalisation gathers pace in mainland Europe, we are benefiting from our established market positions on the ground.
We believe that mainland Europe will continue to provide opportunities for us to grow profitably.
SIR RICHARD BROADBENT CHAIRMAN DELIVERING Arriva delivered a strong performance in 2005.
Firm management of our businesses and continued growth from our operations in mainland Europe PROGRESS ensured that profits were maintained in the first full year without our Northern rail franchise, and despite rising fuel costs.
At the same time, we won new contracts and made further acquisitions that will underpin sustained growth.
Our ability to grow our core business in the future was enhanced by the disposal of our vehicle rental division, which further focused the Group on its core strategy and strengthened the balance sheet.
Group revenue in 2005 was 1,626.8 million 2004: 1,759 million and Group operating profit was 123.1 million 2004: 126.3 million.
As expected, revenue was lower after the loss of the 285 million contributed in 2004 by the Arriva Trains Northern franchise, but it has been substantially replaced by growing turnover and profits from our investment in mainland Europe.
Basic earnings per share increased to 43.7p 2004: 42.6p.
We have maintained earnings per share, excluding goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items, at 45.0p 2004: 45.1p.
2 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www www.
co. uk Excluding our vehicle rental operations, EBITDA STRATEGY earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, goodwill Our strategy of selective investment in operations impairment and intangible asset amortisation rose outside the UK has increased our resilience and eight per cent to 213.1 million 2004: 197.8 million.
provided us with further growth in mainland Europe.
During 2005 we won significant bus and rail contracts The Board is recommending a final dividend of in Germany, the Netherlands and Scandinavia, and 14.77p per share.
Together with the interim dividend we have made acquisitions in Germany and Italy, of 5.07p per share paid in October 2005, this makes consolidating our existing position.
In January 2006 a total dividend of 19.84p per share, five per cent we won our first rail contract in Sweden.
We now higher than last year, maintaining our policy of stable run bus services in seven mainland European countries dividend growth.
The final dividend will be paid on and have rail operations in three, with a fourth 2 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at the Sweden in the pipeline.
As market liberalisation close of business on 31 March 2006. gathers pace in mainland Europe, we are benefiting from our established market positions on the ground.
We believe that mainland Europe will continue to Arriva has a strong balance sheet.
Our provide opportunities for us to grow profitably.
substantial cash generation, combined with In the UK we continue to be a major public transport the recent vehicle rental disposal, gives us the operator.
Arriva is the largest bus operator in London, with its growing populations of residents and flexibility to continue to take advantage of commuters.
We have continued to invest both in high quality investment opportunities.
London and in the UK regions to maintain our leading position.
We have a long-term presence in UK rail with In my report last year, I identified three areas of focus.
Arriva Trains Wales operating the Wales and Borders First, our strategic goal of being recognised as the franchise and we are seeking to develop our rail leading transport services organisation in Europe.
portfolio in the UK as well as mainland Europe.
We Second, the reorganisation of our senior management have pre-qualified for the South Western passenger to reflect this focus.
And third, ensuring good rail franchise which will be awarded later in 2006. corporate governance to support Arrivas growth.
We have made progress in all three areas.
Arriva has a strong balance sheet.
Our substantial cash generation, combined with the recent vehicle rental disposal, gives us the flexibility to continue to take advantage of high quality investment opportunities.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE I reported last year how in March 2005 we As Arriva grows, it is important that corporate reorganised the senior management team under governance develops in line with best practice to the Chief Executive, Bob Davies, including the support ambitious and well-controlled business appointment of David Martin as Deputy Chief development.
In 2005 we appointed two new nonExecutive and Group Managing Director Operations.
executive directors, with the result that In addition to aligning the management of the from April 2006 the Board will have three executive business with our strategic goals, the changes paved directors and four independent non-executive the way for succession at Chief Executive level.
directors, in addition to me as Chairman.
In December we announced that Bob would retire at the AGM in April 2006 after more than seven Nick Buckles, Chief Executive of Group 4 Securicor years in post, to be succeeded by David.
plc, joined the Board in July.
He has extensive experience of operating businesses in the UK and Bobs vision and leadership over the last seven years mainland Europe, which has already enabled him have transformed Arriva, giving the company both to make a valuable contribution to the Group.
Steve a focused strategy and a record of consistent Williams, Company Secretary and General Counsel delivery.
He has led Arriva to be one of the leaders of Unilever, joined the Board in September as our within its sector, and he has developed an excellent Senior Independent Director.
He brings a wealth of management team, which will ensure continuity experience of both corporate governance and under Davids leadership.
The Board wishes to place operations across a wide range of markets.
on record its appreciation of Bobs outstanding contribution to Arriva plc.
In June, Michael Allen retired as a non-executive director, having served on the Board for eight years.
The management development process continued The Board wishes to thank him for his contribution during the year with a number of additional senior to the Group.
appointments being made below Board level.
Our intention is to continue to strengthen our management team to take the Group forward.
4 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk This is an exciting time for Arriva as we strive for further profitable growth and development in markets where increasing liberalisation provides both opportunities and competitive challenges.
SIR RICHARD BROADBENT CHAIRMAN During 2005, we also reviewed the terms of reference and membership of all the Board Committees.
The new terms of reference are available on our website.
We reviewed the financial and other authorities of the Board, making changes where appropriate to reflect the scale and complexity of our current business.
Following an internal Board evaluation exercise, the Boards agenda was re-orientated to give more emphasis to strategic issues central to Arrivas business development.
Ultimately it is the quality of the service we provide that will underpin our leadership in the transport sectors we serve.
This is an exciting time for Arriva as we strive for further profitable growth and development in markets where increasing liberalisation provides both opportunities and competitive challenges.
We are very aware that public transport is a service business and ultimately it is the quality of the service we provide that will underpin our leadership in the transport sectors we serve.
To meet these challenges, our employees work hard to meet our customers needs.
The events of 7 July in London showed again the quality and commitment of Arrivas employees and I would like to express the Boards appreciation and thanks to all our employees for their contribution to another successful year for the Group.
SIR RICHARD BROADBENT CHAIRMAN Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5
