CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ANNUAL REPORT 2005 01 2005 has been another year of considerable progress Nigel Green, Group Chief Executive, will retire Welcome.
2005 has been another year of considerable although profit improvement has been restricted by on 31st May 2006 after ten very successful years progress for the PZ Cussons Group.
leading the Group through a period of significant growth and change.
This successful result has been achieved despite the challenging trading conditions with the weak US dollar Alex Kanellis, currently Deputy Chief Executive, will and high oil prices impacting all our businesses.
succeed Nigel as Chief Executive on 1st June 2006.
In the year we have continued our growth strategy David Godwin will retire from the Board on 30th and our margin improvement programme.
Davids advice and work on behalf of the Group has been invaluable In particular: throughout this period of significant growth.
The milk factory in Nigeria is now in production.
The white goods venture with Haier in Nigeria is James Steel, currently head of Corporate Finance expanding rapidly.
at Arbuthnot Securities, will be appointed a nonThe brand purchases in the UK of Original Source executive director on 1st October 2005. and Charles Worthington are planned to grow in line with expectations.
Our strategic focus remains on growth in our key The new bar soap factory in Thailand is on schedule markets and margin improvement.
Additionally, we to be completed in October.
continue to place great emphasis on the development The restructuring of our Eastern European business of management and staff to ensure that we are best is progressing satisfactorily.
placed to take advantage of the growth opportunities The Chinese subsidiary has been sold.
In this respect I would like to thank all our staff, whose work and dedication have made In June 2005 shareholder approval was given for these results possible.
the enfranchisement of the A non-voting shares and the repayment of our preference shares by a reduction of share capital.
This exercise was considered by the board of directors to be an important step in ensuring that the company has a capital structure which is simple and attractive Anthony J Green to investors.
Chairman 01 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 02 GROUP STRUCTURE 04 HIGHLIGHTS 06 AN EXCITING FUTURE 08 MAJOR PROJECTS 10 BRANDS 12 PEOPLE 14 SUPPLY CHAIN 16 COMMUNICATIONS 18 EUROPE 20 AFRICA 22 ASIA 24 ACCOUNTS
