Chairmans statement Last year Randgold Resources celebrated the tenth anniversary of its establishment and with it a remarkable record of achievements.
When this company was incorporated in 1995, it was little more than a collection of exploration permits.
Ten years on, it is a major mid-tier gold business which has discovered and developed two new mines, carved out a dominant position in some of Africas most prospective regions, built a broad global investor base and earned a reputation for creating value for its stakeholders.
It did so, initially at least, in a stressed market and with slender resources.
But as Napoleon once observed, success is not so much a matter of materials as one of personal character and relations, and this has certainly been the case at Randgold Resources.
In Mark Bristow and his team, the company has what I believe to be one of Its long-range the most energetic and accomplished managements in the industry.
It is their dynamism that has driven Randgold Resources from a zero perspective on the base to a market capitalisation which now exceeds US$1 billion, and industry and the courage it is their understanding of the gold business and the African continent of its convictions have that has enabled the company to forge productive partnerships wherever it has gone.
given it the confidence to make those investments While Randgold Resources growth has been rapid, it has not been ahead of the curve.
The company has executed its plans boldly, but the plans themselves have been carefully formulated and thoroughly tested is a prime example of the against clear objectives and consistent strategies.
And the strategy potential benefits of this on which the business has been based has remained essentially approach.
unchanged since the start: it is to build real value for its shareholders on the back of sustainable organic growth.
This systematic, long term approach - and its worth - are illustrated by the companys history.
Randgold Resources started by elevating its activities to the operational level by acquiring BHP Malis assets, an acquisition funded by a placement of the companys then still unlisted stock.
This was followed by an IPO and a London listing, which gave it both some seed capital as well as a functioning presence in the global capital market, enabling it to discover, finance and develop the world class Morila mine.
Its subsequent secondary listing on Nasdaq significantly expanded the companys share register and confirmed its status as a fully independent business.
The Morila deposit was found by the Randgold Resources exploration team and the fact that this mine has to date produced more than 3 million ounces of gold and paid out some US$430 million to its shareholders shows the soundness of the companys creed that value is created by discovery and development.
It is in pursuit of this belief that it has maintained an intensive exploration programme throughout 4 Annual Report 2005 Randgold Resources its existence, at a time when the industry generally cut For a business to be truly successful it has to be more back on exploration.
than merely profitable, however: it must also be a responsible citizen and a good neighbour.
This is Another distinctive feature of Randgold Resources is particularly true for those companies operating in that it has continued to invest substantially in its own emerging markets, where a constructive partnership future - and the exploration drive is one facet of this.
Its between the providers and managers of capital on the long-range perspective on the industry and the courage one hand, and the government and the people on the of its convictions have given it the confidence to make other, is an essential requirement for an economic those investments ahead of the curve.
Loulo is a prime environment in which business can create prosperity for example of the potential benefits of this approach.
Randgold Resources is a great believer in such decision to proceed with the development of the mine relationships and has contributed more than US$1 billion was taken when the market was soft: but now that the to the economies of countries where it is active through mine is in production, it is delivering gold at historically salaries, taxes and payments to local suppliers.
This is high price levels.
tangible proof of its long term commitment to their sustainable development.
Golds bull run continued in 2005 with average prices rising to US$445 per ounce from the previous years In return, governments need to provide an enabling US$409.
The metal ended the year at US$513 and at environment for business to flourish.
In some of the the time of writing is at US$570, a 25-year high.
countries we work in, there are constraints to effective or efficient business.
Dialogue is essential to address The factors that are driving the gold price include geopolitical instability, economic concerns and issues to improve the ability of investing companies to mainstream investment interest from generalist funds operate.
and the public as well as some hedge fund speculation.
Physical demand has provided an underpin every time I should like to express our gratitude to the governments the price has made significant moves downwards.
and the people of those countries for the support they Producer forward selling has again been at a low level.
Without that support the company could For a producer, the key factor is replacing production not have functioned, let alone prospered.
The general cutback on exploration we shall continue to do everything in our power to ensure expenditure in the Nineties has resulted in a dearth of that these partnerships are mutually beneficial.
Such new ore bodies as have been found have been relatively small and A word of appreciation is due also to the investment production from the areas which traditionally host large community for their interest in the company and in deposits, notably South Africa, has been declining for particular to our shareholders for their faith in years.
The environment therefore appears to be weighted managements ability to maintain the creation and delivery in golds favour, and it is difficult to foresee a significant of value.
Mark Bristow and his team merit special downturn in its fortunes in the short to medium term.
commendation for another stellar performance at the corporate as well as the operational level.
Finally, my Against this background, we expect that 2006 will be personal thanks to my colleagues on the board, whose another good year for Randgold Resources.
The Morila enormous experience of mining and finance gives joint venture will continue to be a healthy cash generator context and direction to our strategic thinking.
and Loulo will weigh in with a substantial contribution.
The successful equity placement of 2005 has strengthened the companys balance sheet, giving it a sound base from which to grasp the next generation of growth opportunities.
Foremost among these is the underground development at Loulo, preparatory work on which has started.
When the current unrest in the Cte dIvoire is ended, the feasibility stage Tongon project will be advanced.
And in the meantime, the companys extensive exploration programmes will Philippe Litard continue to generate prospects for the future.
Chairman Randgold Resources Annual Report 2005 5
