Chairmans statement 2005 has been a pivotal year for The Rank Group.
The actions undertaken by the Companys management will enable Rank to move into an exciting new phase of its evolution.
We agreed the sale of Deluxe Film, which allows us to return 200m to our shareholders through a share buy-back: and we have made a number of key changes to the management team of the ongoing Group.
Ranks Gaming division maintained revenue growth in 2005 but margins weakened, principally as a result of higher operating costs.
The first benets of gaming deregulation were introduced in our final quarter and the early signs are encouraging.
Over the course of recent years, we have established a strong position in the UK gaming market.
We will continue to invest in this area to ensure that we maximise the opportunities for growth.
Alun Cathcart Chairman Hard Rocks continued progress has been pleasing to observe.
Our cafes have grown like-for-like sales for the second year in succession and we are beginning to reap the rewards of our decision to leverage the strength of the brand in the international hotels and gaming markets.
During the course of the year we welcomed two new executive Directors to our main Board.
David Boden, Managing Director of our Gaming division, joined in March and Peter Gill, our newly appointed Finance Director, joined in July.
In January 2006 John Warren became a non-executive Director while Bill Shannon is to join the Board as a non-executive Director from April 2006.
After seven and eight years respectively as non-executive Directors of Rank, Oliver Stocken and John Sunderland will be retiring from the Company at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board I wish to thank them for their dedication and integrity in the service of the Company.
On 6 March 2006, Ian Burke joined Rank as Chief Executive.
With his track record in leisure and hospitality and his experience of brand development and franchising, Ian is well equipped to lead Ranks continuing development.
Mike Smith retires from the Company at the end of March, after almost seven years as Chief Executive.
On behalf of the Board I wish to thank him for his leadership and his hard work during a transitional period for Rank, as the foundations have been laid for growth as a focused gaming and leisure business.
Following a period of restructuring, Rank is in a position to deliver growth and to create value for its shareholders.
Each of our businesses faces its own specic challenges but the dynamics of the gaming and leisure markets, where our businesses occupy strong positions, give me and the rest of the Board confidence in the Groups prospects.
Alun Cathcart Chairman The Rank Group Plc 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2005
