04 05 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Review PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS AVERAGE AVAILABLE WORKSTATIONS INCREASED BY 32% to 78,657 2004: 59,451 MARK DIXON AVERAGE OCCUPANCY INCREASED TO 47.3m 78% 2004: 75% 2004: 1.2m AVERAGE REVPAW INCREASED 12% from 5,251 to 5,890 OVERVIEW SPOTLIGHT ON OUR REGIONS It has been an outstanding year for Regus.
Committed to TURN TO PAGES 6 AND 7 TO SEE OUR REVIEW OF THE AMERICAS Our excellent financial performance stems from our continued investment in growing our existing TURN TO PAGES 8 AND 9 TO SEE OUR REVIEW OF EMEA broadening businesses and our ability to identify and exploit TURN TO PAGES 10 AND 11 TO SEE OUR REVIEW OF ASIA PACIFIC new opportunities through both organic growth and acquisitions.
During the course of the year our product we have continued to invest in all of our regions and they have all contributed to this strong set NEW AND INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS offering.
We are committed to broadening our product offering.
2005 we launched Network Access which provides immediate, unlimited access to the Regus network of business lounges We are constantly looking for ways to expand around the world.
Pioneered by Regus, Network Access BRANDS comprises a unique membership where members can enjoy The Regus network has four brands the agship Regus brand, the business responding to the ever-increasing access to the Regus global network of business centres.
HQ, Stratis Business Centres and Business Meeting Places.
trend towards outsourcing by companies both Both location and a diverse product offering are the key large and small.
In addition, the growing trend In response to customer demand, we have created speci c attributes of all four brands.
In 2005 Regus UK was awarded management services tailored to meet individual requirements.
the coveted SuperBrand award, alongside household names towards home, mobile and remote working is One such product is Netspace, a fully outsourced solution such as Microsoft and IBM.
The independently judged award is also driving growth in our business.
We will designed to assist companies in setting up new sales given as a tribute to companies that demonstrate exceptional constantly evaluate the needs of our customers operations or overseas of ces.
Through this service, Regus brand discipline.
Brand standards and superior service are vital sources, negotiates, acquires and leases the workspace, to our success and during the year we have spent signi cant and ensure we develop products to meet their oversees the t out and con gures the workspace to the clients time and resources on training team members to instil an ethos requirements.
needs in addition to manage IT and telecoms procurement of creating a consistent, high standard of service across all and installation.
We continue to implement our disciplined We continue to expand the brand globally, particularly in expansion strategy, driving the performance of INVEST IN SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY emerging markets such as China and India.
We are also our mature business and opening new centres, The focus of the Regus IT strategy is to provide fast, effective, focused on retaining the integrity of the brand through quality hassle free technology to ensure we as a business operate and service audits.
which will increase our market penetration as ef ciently and our clients achieve business success.
We take we bene t from our size and reach.
pride in developing home grown systems that are tailor-made to the business requirements.
Currently we are implementing CUSTOMER LOYALTY new systems in the areas of inventory, reservations and billing, Our success is built on customer loyalty.
We make a point customer relationship management and financial reporting.
of listening to our clients so we can add value by delivering products that meet their needs.
We are focused on providing value added bene ts to customers, such as utilizing our global IMPLEMENTING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE buying power to secure exclusive deals and discounts for Sales and marketing our customers and arranging local and global networking The Groups marketing and advertising spend is focused opportunities that facilitate our clients business growth.
The geographically and by customer segment.
Marketing is latter is facilitated by ClientNet, an innovative online business Continued undertaken in regions and we use a number of channels to portal and 24 7 global interface that provides our clients with promote our offer.
In November 2005 we signed a signi cant the tools to help their businesses grow and network with deal with Delta Airlines Crown Room members where 152,000 other clients.
investment members have been provided with Network Access cards to utilise Regus facilities across the globe.
The alliance has proved extremely popular with over 10% of members activating their OUR TEAM MEMBERS in growing cards and starting to use the Regus network in the first two Regus has a reputation for attracting and retaining exceptional months.
We are in negotiations with a number of other airlines people who are success orientated and driven to help others and look forward to signing further deals in the coming months.
As a consequence 98% of our customers rate the service we deliver as satisfactory or higher.
our existing Internet bookings This has helped deliver todays results and I would like to thank During the year we have invested signi cantly in our website the team and recognise the contribution they have made.
application through the launch of multi-language websites.
Further investment to improve our web presence will continue in 2006.
"MARK DIXON CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 20 March 2006 06 07 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 AMERICAS a AMERICAS: AT A GLANCE 6, 1, "" 7"", - "" - { ]xnx x {] 1, 6 1 { {n x 1 {, "", 1 "" { x x 1 { a Owned centres excluding joint ventures and franchises."
REVIEW The first full year of operations following the HQ acquisition in North America has been very successful.
Average occupancy increased from 80% to 81% with growth across all countries.
REVPAW grew by an average of 13% year-on-year to 5,529 and we have added a total of 31 new centres in the region.
The average number of available workstations has increased by 72% to 47,311 2004: 27,585, primarily re ecting the full year impact of the HQ acquisition in August 2004.
In terms of marketing, our most recent campaign That works for me has been targeted at both TV and Radio and has been launched to help increase customers awareness of the Regus offering.
The people make Regus successful and fun to work for.
I am very proud to be a member of a company that has such a strong team and vision and will ultimately change the way people work.
LORRAINE VEBER, GLOBAL DIRECTOR SALES OPERATIONS, REGUS
