04 Chairmans statement I am delighted to report that, for the fourth successive year, the Group has produced another excellent set of results.
Against a challenging economic backdrop and a more fragile consumer environment our business has continued to prosper.
8 % Earnings per share growth in 2005 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 05 Chairmans statement Our brands delivered a like-for-like sales Subject to approval at the Annual General Our Est Est Est business was sold to Living increase of 3% which, when measured Meeting, the final dividend will be payable on Ventures at the end of the first quarter and against a 5% increase in the previous year, 5 July 2006 to shareholders on the register on simultaneously we acquired a 40% was a fantastic performance.
As a result, 9 June 2006 and will be marked ex-dividend shareholding in Living Ventures.
The LV team our adjusted profit before tax increased by on 7 June 2006. have had a busy year, integrating and 21% on the prior year.
Cash generation repositioning the Est business, and we are Our Leisure and Concessions divisions traded was strong and we were able to finance expecting to see the benefits from these well throughout the year, with both recording the roll out of 32 new restaurants from efforts flow through in 2006 and beyond.
Since significant increases in profits and cashflows internally generated funds.
the year end we have returned to shareholders and both divisions ended the year on a strong by way of a special dividend the majority of 2005 was also a busy year for the Group on note.
During 2005 we opened a total of 32 the cash received from the two disposals.
the corporate front with the sale in March of new units and these have all traded well.
The Est Est Est to Living Ventures Limited LV new openings included seven sites that we It is worth noting that the strategy for growth and the simultaneous acquisition of a 40% acquired from the Deep Pan Pizza Company that we put in place at the end of 2001 has shareholding in LV.
At the end of June we and the performance of these new openings resulted in a turnover increase between 2001 purchased Blubeckers for 27m in cash has been superb.
Since the year end we have and 2005 of 83% in the Leisure division and and we are delighted with its performance assumed control over the remaining 27 sites 93% in the Concessions division.
Over the during our first nine months of ownership.
In currently trading as Deep Pan Pizza and it same period profits have increased by 128% December we sold the Caffe Uno business is our intention to convert many of these and 75% respectively.
Our strong position in for 33m in cash.
We had, for some time, into our Leisure brands.
these two markets means that we are well been concerned about the long-term placed to continue to deliver good growth.
Our Leisure division which now incorporates sustainability of profit and cashflow from our Frankie & Bennys, Chiquitos, Blubeckers You will note that there have been a number high street businesses Est Est Est and Caffe and Garfunkels had an excellent year.
of changes to the accounting rules following Uno which operated in the increasingly Notwithstanding the devastating impact on the introduction of International Financial competitive and rather crowded high street Garfunkels second half trade as a result of Reporting Standards which has had an pizza and pasta market.
As a result of these the London bombings, the Leisure division impact on the way our results are presented.
disposals and our acquisition of Blubeckers, recorded a 30% increase in operating profit.
However, it is very clear that whatever our focus is now on non-high street locations.
During the year we opened 14 new Frankie accounting basis is applied, these are an The majority of our continuing business is & Bennys and nine new Chiquitos.
2005 excellent set of results and they are a located in areas where there are distinct also saw Frankie & Bennys open its one testament to the hard work and dedication barriers to entry, where we are confident of hundredth restaurant in Livingston and the of the management team and staff.
On behalf delivering good growth in profits and brand continues to go from strength to of the Board, I would like to thank them all for cashflows and of generating high returns on strength.
Chiquitos turnaround is now their valued contribution over the past year.
Simultaneously with the sale of complete and profits for this brand increased Caffe Uno we also announced our intention 2005 was another good year for the Group.
We are confident that we to return up to 35m to shareholders, which I am pleased to report that 2006 has also can continue to grow Chiquito and we have was completed in March 2006. started well with like-for-like sales for the been particularly encouraged by the results first nine weeks 4% ahead.
We plan to Building on an excellent first half performance, of units co-located with Frankie & Bennys.
open 25-30 new restaurants this year, we we continued our profitable progress during Our Concessions division also enjoyed a busy will continue to focus on ways to further the second half of 2005.
Full year adjusted year with eight new units opened.
Of these, improve profitability and we will continue to pre tax profits increased by 21% to 29.5m three were new shopping centre sites and invest in our people and systems.
We have 2004: 24.4m with turnover from principal five were airport sites.
We are pleased with an outstanding business with leading brands, trading brands increasing by 25% to 248.8m the performance of our new openings and the a strong pipeline of new sites, a great team 2004: 199.6m.
Adjusted earnings per share growth that we have achieved in this division.
and a proven strategy for growth.
confident that we will continue to make further As previously mentioned we have largely As a result of this strong performance the good progress during the coming year.
disposed of our high street restaurants.
During Board is recommending an increased final 2005 the Caffe Uno business struggled Alan M Jackson dividend of 3.84p per share 2004: 3.375p against an increasingly competitive Chairman an increase of 14%, giving a total dividend for background and as a result its full year 11 April 2006 2005 of 4.75p per share, an increase of 13%.
contribution to Group profit was about 25% lower than the previous year.
Results are stated excluding non-trading items and DPP, as set out in more detail in note 2 of the financial statements.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005
