Chairmans statement growing plastic packaging market.
These acquisitions increase our focus on the cosmetic, personal care and pharmaceutical packaging markets and strengthen our positions in food and beverage closures.
The discipline of our acquisition process remains firmly in place and we will pursue only the deals which we are convinced will add value for shareholders.
We continued to focus on emerging markets which we believe offer great potential for us and our stakeholders and which contribute around 20% of our sales going forward, with Brazil, Russia and China being particularly important.
Emerging markets offer signi cant Since the year end, we have announced three further opportunities for the consumer acquisitions.
Two of them broaden our technology and packaging industry.
The growth of product offering in plastic packaging, while the third gives us packaging is directly correlated to the growth in GDP.
On the left, a strong base in the emerging Egyptian beverage can market.
a complete product including dispensing system and container from our beauty packaging We continued to focus on operation in Brazil.
emerging markets which we believe approval at the Annual General Meeting in May 2006, the dividend will be paid on 5 June 2006 to holders of ordinary offer great potential for us shares registered on 12 May 2006.
We maintained our record of operational efficiency by Board changes driving 35m out of our cost base throughout the year using There were a number of changes during the year among the the continuous improvement framework provided by Lean executive members of the Board.
As previously reported, Enterprise and Six Sigma.
This helped to mitigate the impact Bill Barker, Group Director Beverage Cans, joined the Board of rising raw material prices.
Yves Dominioni retired from the Board in July 2005 after ten years heading up the beauty and In May, we exited the UK glass market with the sale of our pharmaceutical packaging operations.
who had been Group Finance Director since 2003, moved into the new operational role of Group Director Plastic Dividend Packaging.
David Robbie was appointed to the Board as The Board is proposing a final dividend of 10.6p per ordinary Finance Director in October 2005, having previously been share.
This will mean 18.12p for 2005, an increase of 5%, Chief Financial Officer of Royal P&O Nedlloyd.
in line with our dividend policy.
Subject to shareholder At the start of 2006, Chris Clark, Deputy Chairman of the Board and senior independent director, decided to step down as he approached the end of his three-year term.
I would like to thank Chris for his contribution to the Board and wish him all the best as he concentrates on his other commitments.
Carl Symon has now replaced him as senior independent director.
Outlook We are confident that our strategy for growth, both organically and by acquisition, is sound.
Looking ahead, we are implementing price increases to offset the challenge of higher input costs and we will continue to deliver strong operational efficiencies.
The integration of the recent acquisitions is progressing well and we anticipate that 2006 will be a year in which we will once again make further progress.
New applications, such as energy and health drinks and iced coffee, along with new can sizes, will help drive pro table growth in the Rolf Brjesson, Chairman beverage can business.
22 February 2006 9 Cum dit ulla facipsu msandio corperc ilismodolor sequisci et 10
