81795x 1020 25 2 06 4:02 pm Page 2 Chairmans letter investments and developments in a number after the 2005 annual meetings and Ashton of new areas.
Calvert and Vivienne Cox joined from In the current environment of strong 1 February 2005.
I believe we have a very economic returns, we are aware of the strong, well qualified and cohesive board potential for our balance sheet to become which provides the right level of support overly strong.
and challenge to our executive team.
Reflecting our large cash flows, we announced a substantial return of capital to Forward outlook shareholders totalling US$4 billion as part of Despite several challenges including high our capital management programme.
This oil prices, structural imbalances, and the comprises a US$1.5 billion special dividend potential for currency fluctuations we equivalent to US$1.10 per share, and a believe the global economy will continue its share buy back programme totalling recent positive trend, even if rates of US$2.5 billion by the end of 2007.
replaces the US$500 million remaining from We are continuing to experience strong the 2005 programme.
short term demand for our metal and The final dividend declared for 2005 mineral products.
Demand from China under the progressive ordinary dividend remains particularly strong but risks remain policy brings total dividends for the year to of occasional speed bumps as the 80 US cents per share, an increase of four countrys social and economic structures Dear Shareholder per cent from 2004. adjust to the high rates of growth.
Overall, Demand was strong throughout 2005 for we expect supply demand balances to most of the metals and minerals we Sustainable development remain tight in 2006 with prices continuing produce, and supply was generally tight.
Mining operates on long time horizons, and to track above the long term trend.
As a result prices of most products were most of Rio Tintos mines and processing At some point the supply position will well above the historical average trend.
The plants have operational lives spanning become more balanced and we will see a buoyant conditions in our sector, together decades.
A key part of our strategy downturn in the cycle.
While we are with Rio Tintos strategic positioning and therefore is to make social and continuing to invest in increased strong operating performance, resulted in a environmental responsibility integral to our production to provide long term supply second successive year of record profits.
We always assurance to our customers, and to However, these favourable conditions seek to align our interests with those of the maintain our market position, we focus on are no basis for complacency.
Our view of communities and environments where our economically robust projects which we the world has not changed fundamentally.
Rio Tinto regards believe can deliver sustained profitability in The reality is that we are in an inherently corporate social responsibility as a vital varying market conditions.
cyclical business even if successive determinant of commercial success.
We are increasingly seeking to leverage cycles have different characteristics.
Our Investors relate positively to companies our global reach and scale by delivering long term strategy for portfolio development, who have values they can identify with and operational excellence, sharing of best investment, capital management and we remain committed to the principles of practice between our businesses, and operational excellence is designed to create sustainable development.
adopting common business systems and shareholder value whatever the prevailing We see a clear responsibility to help to processes across the Group.
address the challenges posed by climate that the continuing efforts of the Groups change, to manage issues related to talented and committed people all over the Results biodiversity, and to maintain effective world will ensure we maintain a strong and Higher prices and increased production product stewardship across the value competitive company, responsive to all volumes in 2005 contributed to underlying chain of our products.
I believe Rio Tinto opportunities which we believe can add earnings of US$4,955 million, US$2,683 has become a leader in our industry in these value for our shareholders.
The board is, million or 118 per cent above 2004.
Net areas but we still have some way to go.
once again, very appreciative of our earnings were US$5,215 million compared employees major contribution in 2005. with US$3,297 million in 2004.
Board developments Cash flow from operations at US$8,257 In September we welcomed Sir Rod million, including dividends from jointly Eddington to the boards on his retirement controlled entities and associates, was also as chief executive of British Airways plc.
a record, and 85 per cent higher than Rod is an Australian and was educated at 2004.
Timely disposal of non core assets the University of Western Australia and Paul Skinner Chairman further strengthened our balance sheet Oxford University where, as a Rhodes which, in turn, helps to underpin our Scholar, he completed a doctorate in extensive capital investment programme engineering science.
He brings valuable and gives us the flexibility to pursue new skills and experience to the board.
investment opportunities when and where Sir Richard Giordano, Leon Davis and they arise.
In 2005 we saw significant John Morschel all retired from the boards 2 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements
