10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:55 Page 04 04 Chairmans statement We have continued to demonstrate the strength of our business model and to create value for shareholders.
Simon Robertson Chairman Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:55 Page 05 05 Having completed my first 12 months as We announced in January of this year that Chairman, I am delighted to be able to report Colin Green is to retire from the Group and another year of strong progress for the Group.
Again, I would like to thank We have continued to demonstrate the Colin for the huge contribution he has made strength of our business model and to create to the Company and to the aerospace industry, value for shareholders.
which was publicly recognised last year when Our financial results for 2005 reect the he received a well deserved CBE.
value of past investment and of the Groups As foreshadowed in last years report, Iain consistent strategy.
Underlying profits rose by Conn has joined the Board as a non-executive 49 per cent, earnings per share by 55 per cent director and has brought to our discussions and debt levels were signicantly reduced.
his extensive international business experience.
We are therefore proposing an increase in the I would like to thank the management payment to shareholders.
and all our employees very much for another Rolls-Royce is continuing to invest in successful year.
Their commitment has been new technologies, products and programmes.
I should also pay tribute to my The long-term nature of these investments fellow directors for the considerable contribution and the increasing numbers of our engines in they have made in support of the Group.
service should enable the Group to generate Our past investments have enabled us to growth and improving returns over many years.
build strong positions in markets which offer The Group attaches a particular priority to long-term growth.
Looking forward, we continue the environment by investing in technologies to lay the foundations for long-term success which minimise the environmental impact of and value creation in a demanding international our operations and products.
I expect the Group We also take seriously our obligations to all to continue to make progress in 2006, as the our stakeholders as we believe that excellence returns from past investments grow while in corporate responsibility delivers competitive we continue to invest in new technologies advantage and long-term success.
There have been a number of Board changes over the year.
After nearly 40 years with the Group, Mike Howse retired from the Board in June as Director of Engineering and Technology and has been succeeded by Colin Smith.
I would like to thank Mike for the outstanding contribution he has made.
Simon Robertson Chairman Colin Smith has been with the Group for over February 8, 2006 30 years and brings to the Board a similar wealth of engineering expertise.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
