02 Rotork Chairmans Statement Annual Report 2005 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRONG DEMAND, PARTICULARLY FROM THE HYDROCARBON AND POWER SECTORS RESULTED IN A 41% INCREASE IN THE ORDER BOOK, WHICH CLOSED THE YEAR AT AN ALL TIME HIGH.
Roger Lockwood Chairman Introduction Business review Excellent progress has been made in the year with the Groups order The Electric actuator business, which accounts for 71% of Group input increasing by 24%.
Group revenue advanced by 19% to revenue, saw good output levels from the main plant in Bath, 174.8m and double digit growth in operating profit was achieved building on the progress made in the first half.
The US had a very by all three divisions.
Overall profit increased by 20% to 36.5m.
positive year with Rochester making record profits and successfully Earnings per share increased by nearly 17%.
Strong demand, weathering the uncertain currency backdrop that was with us particularly from the hydrocarbon and power sectors, coupled with through most of the year.
Despite this uncertainty, currency overall growth in all our geographical markets resulted in a 41% increase had a modest positive impact on reported results.
The IQT actuator in the order book, which closed the year at an all time high.
released at the end of 2003 continues to be well received by Dividend p over 30 years of dividend growth 25p Core Dividend Additional Dividend 20p 15p 10p 5p 0p 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 Chairmans Statement Rotork 03 continued Annual Report 2005 customers worldwide.
China is now established as our biggest market 10 million over and above the sum of the final dividend being for Electric products and this is recognised through the development recommended for 2005 and the proposed core interim dividend for programme for both product and facilities that we have for the 2006.
This additional distribution will take the form of two further business in the current year.
interim dividends for 2006 paid in July and December, which with the final dividend for 2005 and the core 2006 interim paid in September, Rotork Fluid System continued to build on the growth of the last few means that we plan to make four dividend payments to shareholders years producing a very creditable increase of 46% in order input and during 2006.
The timing of these dividend payments is intended to 36% in sales revenue for the year.
The main plants in Lucca and match the Groups cash generation profile.
A table showing the Rochester have improved their use of facilities and continued to timing and amount of the four dividends proposed to be paid during develop product offerings during the year, all of which have delivered 2006 is set out in the Operating and Financial Review.
quality improvements to our customers and increased the range of services that we can offer.
The PCI business in Melle, Germany, Recognising the present deficit in the main defined benefit pension acquired in March, further increases the divisions production capacity scheme, the Board has decided to make additional contributions to giving us the capability of handling very large projects when needed.
the scheme equivalent to this additional dividend.
It is anticipated This business has now been integrated into the Group and we are that this will put the scheme on a firmer footing prior to the next looking for the impact of this work to be reflected in improved actuarial valuation in March 2007. performance during 2006.
Jeremy Fry Rotork Gears continues to develop its products and business and It was with sadness that we record the death of Jeremy Fry, the extend its influence across the global markets that we serve.
A tribute to Jeremy appears on pages Milan based Omag business acquired in January 2006, while small in 16 and 17. a Group context, holds a respected position in the important Italian market.
It has a strong engineering culture with a largely Outlook complementary product range and will enhance the whole of our Conditions in most of our end user and geographic markets continue Gears business as we develop an integrated approach from the four to be buoyant as reflected in the size of the order book at the start of production facilities in Leeds, Losser, Milan and Shanghai.
the year and the strength of the order input since then.
Based on this we are looking forward to further good progress in 2006.
Corporate governance The Board is committed to continuously improving its corporate governance framework and regularly reviews progress, both directly and through committees.
We have further improved compliance with the Combined Code in a number of areas during the year with, for example, all our directors now having one year notice periods or less.
We have also recruited a third independent non-executive director and all of our Board committees are now combined code compliant.
Roger Lockwood The Group has a well developed internal audit process and our Chairman internal audit programme now extends beyond fiscal matters to 27 February 2006 Health and Safety and Environmental issues.
Dividend The Board has a policy of distributing profits in the form of dividends generally commensurate with increases in earnings.
The level of cash held by the Group at the end of the year, and anticipated continued cash generation in the coming year, has however encouraged us to propose additional distributions to shareholders during 2006.
The final dividend proposed by the Directors for 2005 is 9.90p per share payable on 26 May to shareholders on the register on 5 May 2006.
In addition, the Board is proposing to make further additional distributions to shareholders by way of dividend, in the amount of
