Chairmans statement There was further strong growth in Europe Central America continues to be where EBITA rose by 26%.
Although EBITA has grown, well: Poland recovered as it adapted to volumes have declined.
The market is ercely changes in the marketplace: and our business competitive in soft drinks and becoming in Romania gained the number two position more so in beer particularly in El Salvador.
by acquiring the Aurora brewing company.
Results were less good in Italy.
However, benefiting from our investments were starting to see an improvement as we The rapid growth that weve just experienced implement new systems and processes.
is the result of a long period of investment During the year, we acquired the minority that started in the mid-1990s when we first interests in Birra Peroni for US$205 million.
expanded aggressively out of Africa.
Our business in Africa continued the Our investment in our portfolio of momentum of the first half year with further businesses has given us a spread of increases in volume.
There was strong operations spanning more than 40 countries growth from Tanzania, Mozambique and on four continents and well balanced Angola.
between established and developing We continue to shape our business markets.
We now sell 148 million hectolitres portfolio in China the worlds largest beer of lager a year with total beverage sales of market.
Last year we were disappointed not 187 million hectolitres.
Last year, lager Dear Shareholder to succeed in buying the remaining shares in volumes grew organically at 4%, twice the The 12 months to 31 March 2005 were the Harbin brewery.
Nevertheless, we made a recent historical global industry average a third successive year of outstanding good profit when we then sold our existing growth rate.
Our Chinese associate, CR Snow The investment in our productive assets performance combined with favourable previously CRB, expanded further, has continued with US$576 million spent on currency rates resulted in adjusted earnings acquiring three breweries in Anhui province maintenance and US$192 million on new of US$1,251 million, an increase of 35%, and the brewing interests of Lion Nathan in capacity.
A major project completed in 2004 which translates into an increase of adjusted the Yangtze River Delta region.
It also was the new Pilsner Urquell brewhouse in the earnings per share of 33%.
announced a greeneld brewery investment Czech Republic which brews our agship Given this strong performance, the board in Guandong province.
CR Snow is now brand for the domestic and international has proposed a final dividend of 26.0 US starting to reap the rewards as its businesses markets.
The South African business, cents per share, bringing the full year total to become more integrated and prices meanwhile, has invested over US$600 million 38.0 US cents per share an increase of become rmer.
over the past decade and plans to invest a 27% over last year.
This dividend is covered On 27 May 2005, we announced that we further US$800 million in the next five years 2.6 times by adjusted diluted earnings.
were increasing our stake in the business in about half of it for new production capacity.
Net cash inow from our operations India to 99% by acquiring the Shaw Wallace Years of investment in our brands is also totalled US$2,792 million and the balance Groups interest in the brewing operations.
We constantly strive to make our sheet remains strong with gearing at We are now Indias second largest brewer, local and regional brands more relevant, to 26.4%.
This follows capital expenditure of with ten breweries supplying the whole innovate in response to consumers changing US$768 million and a series of corporate country.
In the last year, volumes increased needs, and to keep developing our transactions including the conversion of by 12% to 2.4 million hectolitres.
US$600 million of convertible bonds which were due in 2006.
Operational highlights This was not a year of headline-grabbing acquisitions more a case of incrementally building the business and reinforcing our position as one of the worlds leading brewers.
reaping The star of the year was South Africa where our businesses benefited from the strong currency and an increase in the countrys consumer spending.
EBITA increased by 36% in the beer business and Thanks to sustained and careful 34% in soft drinks.
During the year we acquired the minority shareholdings in our investment over many years, Coca-Cola bottling subsidiary, ABI, at a cost of US$597 million.
The sale of our 21% stake weve enjoyed a third successive in Edgars Consolidated Stores Ltd the Johannesburg-listed retail business was an year of outstanding results.
opportunity to withdraw from a non-core operation at a good price.
The turnaround at Miller in North America has continued according to plan.
profitability and margins have improved and the business gained overall market share.
Miller Lite has been particularly successful and was the countrys fastest-growing beer brand during 2004.
4 SABMiller plc Most of all, weve benefited from our investment in people.
We devote considerable effort to training and developing our employees, building the skills we need for the future, meeting our responsibilities as an employer and making sure our structures and management reect the societies in which we operate.
The ultimate beneciaries of these investments are, of course, our shareholders.
Since our UK listing in 1999, weve achieved a total shareholder return of 164% compared with 12% for the FTSE 100 as a whole as measured on 31 March 2005.
Corporate social responsibility The size and inuence we enjoy in many of our markets make it imperative that we behave responsibly and improve the lives of the less fortunate.
Last year, we invested US$16.9 million, in social programmes.
That said, we believe the best way to help society is to succeed as a business providing products that people enjoy, creating jobs and wealth, contributing taxes and helping others to advance economically.
While our products contribute to peoples quality of life, we also have a responsibility to make sure they are used sensibly.
We therefore have a range of education and research programmes in areas such as underage drinking and road safety.
Under the title The Responsible Way, weve also adopted a new group-wide policy on alcohol together with a code of conduct covering all our commercial communications.
Corporate governance Last year I set out the changes we intended to make to strengthen the balance of the rewards independent representation on the board our interests in China and his contribution to for all your support.
The last three years and its committees.
These have now been the company is much appreciated.
have seen exceptional rates of earnings completed and subsequently, Robin Renwick While aiming for the highest standards of growth across the group and whilst we are has stepped down from the remuneration corporate governance, we have to recognise unlikely to continue to repeat these rates of committee in order to meet the that our shareholders are spread between the growth our well balanced mix of businesses independence requirements of the Combined US, the UK and South Africa and that these and portfolio of strong brands will continue Code.
As part of the process, we were jurisdictions sometimes have differing to underpin our growth momentum.
delighted last August to welcome John requirements.
Our approach to reconciling Manzoni to the board as a non-executive these differences is to identify a golden director.
John is now a member of the thread of corporate governance that guides remuneration committee and the us in meeting our moral and ethical corporate accountability and risk assurance responsibilities.
Sadly, Frank Ning has chosen not Finally, my thanks go to my fellow to stand for re-election to the board at the directors as well as to our excellent staff, to forthcoming annual general meeting.
Frank our business partners, to our hard-working Meyer Kahn was instrumental in establishing and growing distributors, and to you, our shareholders, Chairman SABMiller plc 5
