Customer growth 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2m 3m 4m 5m Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report a strong performance, with turnover increasing 14% and earnings per share increasing 13%.
These results demonstrate that our businesses have responded well to the competitive challenges they face.
We maintained our strong market positions people.
I would like to thank everyone in by providing locally-developed solutions, by Sage for their dedication, hard work and working closely with our high quality reseller contribution to the years performance.
partner channel and by supporting customers Board with locally-based services.
This enabled us During the year, two non-executive directors, to increase our customer base to 4.7 million John Constable and Kevin Howe, retired from businesses 30 September 2004: 4.4 million.
John Constable joined the Market trends Board in 1996 and chaired its Audit Committee SMEs continue to exhibit strong demand from 1996.
John played a key role in facilitating for business software to address a variety and challenging the development of the of back office needs ranging from basic Groups strategic vision.
Kevin Howe joined book-keeping for small businesses to the Board in 1992 as an executive director business-wide solutions for larger, mid-market with responsibility for our US businesses.
SMEs are also increasingly On retirement from his executive role in 2001, interested in software to help them manage Kevin became a non-executive director.
processes elsewhere in their businesses, Kevin was an early and expert advocate of such as in customer relationship customer base marketing.
On behalf of the management CRM.
Sage team Id like to thank John and Kevin for their valuable contributions to the Board.
SMEs continue to require additional services to help them run their systems more efficiently Lindsay Bury will be retiring from the Board and produce useful business information.
at the next Annual General Meeting after many years of service to the Group.
I would Our growth strategy has been based on like to thank him for his significant meeting these evolving business requirements contribution over many years.
with locally-developed software and related services.
In December 2004, Tamara Ingram joined the Board as a non-executive director.
Tamara, a People senior executive of WPP the worlds thirdWe now employ nearly 10,000 people largest advertising and media services Michael Jackson, Chairman 2004: 8,000, the increase resulting conglomerate, has a wide range of experience principally from acquisitions.
The successful in brand marketing within service businesses.
integration of acquired businesses into our local operations has ensured that this years Outlook acquisitions are already working effectively Our organic revenue growth continues to with our existing activities.
In all our demonstrate the value of our key assets businesses, our people have demonstrated our expanding customer base of 4.7 million commitment to meeting the needs of our businesses, our locally-developed software customers and their achievements have solutions and our network of 23,000 been reflected in numerous industry awards reseller partners.
for product quality and customer service.
Future growth will be based upon continued Our decentralised approach to managing investment in locally-developed business our global network enables our people to software solutions to meet the evolving be responsive to our customers needs and needs of SMEs: supporting our reseller to continue to develop products and partners: enhancing support for our services that match country-specific customers with locally-delivered services: customer requirements.
and acquisitions in both existing and new geographic markets.
The contribution of individuals at Sage is always highly valued and respected and this The start to 2006 has been encouraging and year we have continued to benefit from new we therefore view 2006 with confidence.
ideas on business processes and products, Michael Jackson thanks to the innovative approach of our Chairman Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2004 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2005 to facilitate the comparison of results.
1 Financial Highlights and Overview 2 Chairmans Statement 3 Chief Executives Review 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 8 Directors and Advisers 10 Financial Review 13 Directors Report 18 Corporate Governance Statement 23 Remuneration Report 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 37 Notes to the Accounts 61 Independent Auditors Report 62 Notice of Meeting 64 Financial Calendar
