s I said at the half year, economic conditions PENSIONS ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK CHAIRMANS Following a detailed consultation with employee across our markets have shown considerable Our work in the wider community does not stop Trading in the first weeks of 2006 has been in line STATEMENT A variability this year and our success is a representatives, we announced proposals for future at responsible drinking.
pension arrangements for our UK employees.
We reflection of both the increased breadth of our We have strong community links.
The work In the UK, strong brands driven by continued business and of our brands strength.
As always, believe that the co-operative and open response of both the Bulmer and the Kronenbourg foundations focus on innovation and the right marketing support to the pension challenge has resulted in a solution the objective is to perform well regardless are great examples of our endeavour to deliver should continue to drive top-line growth ahead of the of the prevailing market conditions, and I believe the which meets the needs of employees, the business sustainable benefits locally.
market, while tight cost control will help the bottom and its shareholders, and we welcome the current results show that we have achieved this goal.
As a large producing company we also have line.
After the disappointing market dynamics in 2005 constructive response.
a strong interest in reducing energy consumption we expect to see slight volume growth in 2006, OPERATIONAL PROGRESS in our operations.
S&N works in close partnership largely due to the football World Cup in the summer.
In a year of considerable progress, I would like to RESTRUCTURING THE BUSINESS with the Carbon Trust and we are constantly working However, the group is not immune to the very real In France we have continued to work on restructuring highlight a number of areas that I believe to be of great to improve all areas of energy, water use and other cost pressures associated with increasing energy importance and that reflect the transition we have our business.
The integration of the on-trade sales environmental issues.
forces of Elidis and Brasseries Kronenbourg should made from being a brewer focused on mature markets In continental Europe, the picture is still mixed.
to a truly international player in our industry.
result in more efficiency and improved growth in BOARD AND MANAGEMENT CHANGES With the changes in France in place, the business our French on-trade business.
Early this year we In mature markets we have once again In January I was delighted to announce the is now in a strong position to deal with what is still demonstrated leadership in marketing and innovation.
announced the proposed sale of the Champigneulles appointment of Philip Bowman to the board as a a tough market and trading environment.
We are brewery near Nancy concentrating our brewing Both in the UK, with the roll-out of Super Chilled, non-executive director.
As former Chief Executive of confident that across the international division, the and in Portugal, with the launch of Sagres Bohemia, activities in Obernai.
This move creates further Allied Domecq and director of Bass, Philip brings with roll-out of product innovation, in many cases around I am pleased efficiencies and adjusts our business to the demands we have led the way in brands-driven growth.
him a wealth of knowledge of the beverages industry.
premium-priced product, and the increasingly S&N is also benefiting from the consolidation of the difficult environment of the French market.
I would also like to put on record my thanks to Dr Iain focused A&P approach will drive the top line.
to report that We feel that we are now well positioned to compete of a group-wide, experienced management team, Anderson, who retired from the board last year, for It is expected that BBH will continue to show Scottish & with strength in depth.
his substantial contribution to Scottish & Newcastle.
We expect Russian market In the emerging world, we are now a significant I believe that the current board has both strength volumes to grow at 3% to 5% in the medium term Newcastle player in three of the worlds growth markets: Russia, RESPONSIBLE DRINKING and depth to ensure good governance as well as to and we expect to gain share within this market, while It has always been a critical consideration for us to India and China.
achieved its provide guidance for the company strategically and achieving price increases just below local food and The BBH business continued with its meet the wider obligations of the community in which commercially.
As part of the ongoing programme of beverage price inflation.
Having seen an outstanding nancialobjectives we trade, especially as beer and cider play an important outstanding performance increasing its market share succession, we will seek to replace the considerable margin improvement in 2005, it is anticipated that in most regions and especially in Russia, where its social role.
contribution of some individuals in the coming years.
margins in 2006 will be stable at around 20%.
Strong for the full Longer opening hours in the on-trade in the market share now stands at 36%.
cash-flow from operating activities will continue year, showing In January Baltika majority owned by BBH UK and other issues related to alcohol production, DIVIDEND to support dividends at the current level or above.
consumption and marketing in many of our markets put a plan to its minority shareholders proposing The Board has proposed a final dividend payment In summary, 2005 has shown the power of the a strong overall the merger of all of BBHs Russian businesses.
have continued to keep our sector in the public of 14.09p per share for 2005, an increase of 2.5%.
Scottish & Newcastle brand portfolio, especially eye.
We believe in the importance of this debate performance We have gone to great lengths to improve If approved the final dividend will be payable on 3 May when combined with a rigorous focus on the cost communications with the minority shareholders within and continue our work to assure that alcohol is to shareholders on the register at 31 March 2006. base and the efficient asset utilisation of our with comparable consumed responsibly.
Russia and to ensure that, at all times, the interests business.
We believe that continuing this approach of all stakeholders in the Russian businesses have We have taken a number of initiatives, including operating profit will strengthen the groups competitive position the introduction of a group-wide new marketing code been recognised.
across its markets and at the same time drive further growth of 6.9% In early 2005 we finalised our entry into another of practice.
The introduction of our low alcohol and shareholder value.
no alcohol beers in France and Portugal is another exciting market through the partnership with United and earnings per Breweries UBL in India.
Since April 2005 we have key driver for responsible drinking and we intend share up 10.4% to widen distribution of low alcohol products across brought together the previously separate businesses UBL and Millennium MABL.
This has allowed us our markets.
despite ongoing We continue to work with other brewers to choose the best management team and blend together two powerful brand portfolios.
As a result and stakeholders to ensure that brewing retains difficult conditions and develops its reputation as a responsible and we have seen an exceptional performance over the in certain last year, so that UBL now holds a combined market sustainable industry.
Sir Brian Stewart share of around 50% in a fast emerging market.
Chairman We have changed from being focused on mature markets to being a truly international player with leading positions in the growth markets of Russia, India and China.
04 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 05 he dual strategy of driving value in mature DRIVING OUR ORGANISATION INVESTING IN GROWING MARKETS RUSSIA AN EVEN STRONGER BUSINESS CHIEF We have also made good progress with our We are committed to investing in growth.
In the IN A GROWING MARKET markets and volume in developing markets EXECUTIVES T has delivered a satisfying performance second priority, improving our organisation.
last year we have increased our holding in India BBH has grown beer volumes by12.3% and We are building our management capability and invested in China.
In both we bring operational operating profits grew by 23.7% and in addition overall in what was a tough year in a number STATEMENT of our markets.
First we have raised the bar on and brand knowledge to our local partners, and S&N has invested 5m marketing spend behind performance a quarter of the senior managers both businesses are now contributing to the overall Fosters and Kronenbourg 1664 in Russia.
We have made very good progress against our key financial targets, with sales growth up in the business are top quality people that we performance of S&N.
In January Baltika which is majority owned have brought in from blue chip consumer goods In BBH, the integration of Pikra, Vena and by our joint venture BBH announced the details 4.1%, improved margins, strong cash generation of 266m and return on invested capital ROIC companies in the past three years.
In addition, Yarpivo with Baltika is making steady progress.
for the proposed merger with Pikra, Vena and another quarter of the senior management team We will continue to look at growth Yarpivo.
While the integration is progressing up to 6.9% in 2005 from 6.5% in 2004.
Our principal objective is to build top line sales has been promoted from within the business.
opportunities outside our current portfolio.
we continue to spread best practice across And thirdly, we have mixed the pack in terms these businesses.
growth while increasing return on invested capital, and we aim to achieve this through focusing the of experience, sharing best practice across the FOCUS ON FRANCE group by moving a third of the senior team across France has been a key focus for us in 2005.
UK A EUROPEAN SHOWCASE business on four strategic priorities.
First we invest behind our brands and in markets or functions, thereby creating a truly Six significant steps have been taken.
We believe that S&N UK is in many respects integrated international business.
I believe that First, as reported in August, we have reorganised the showcase for how to run a branded goods innovation.
Secondly, we strive to improve our organisation.
Thirdly, we have a continued focus these three steps are critical to securing competitive the on-trade sales force.
This has eliminated duplication business in a mature and highly competitive market.
advantage in all of the markets in which we operate.
of sales effort and has achieved a refocus on the onA number of the brands and technologies that on operational efficiency.
Lastly, we are constantly considering investment opportunities for growth As part of our drive to establish sales best trade outlets that will generate the strongest growth.
were developed in the first instance for the UK In 2005 we were practice across all markets, we have appointed Secondly, we have announced the creation are now being rolled out into our other European in our existing and new markets.
I believe that we are delivering on all four counts.
a Group Sales Director, completing the main of a national contact centre for the on-trade in the markets.
At the same time we have made the first able to show just group functions.
These two steps will transform our steps of tighter cost control and better asset how much value INVESTING IN OUR BRANDS on-trade capability.
utilisation in the UK and that knowledge is now OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY Thirdly, we have appointed Thierry Daniel as being applied across the group.
AND IN INNOVATION we can add to We now have a dynamic business that is We continue to review our cost base right across Commercial Director to lead the sales efforts across S&N UK has had a strong year despite an the group.
Clearly a significant step in securing the on and off-trade.
Thierry has joined us from unexpected softness in the market.
We increased brand focused and consumer led.
Our investment mature markets programme has driven organic branded beer and efficiencies is the recently announced brewery Procter & Gamble.
our market share and did so without having if we concentrate rationalisation in France, but integrating operations Next, to boost the top line, dedicated crossto follow the aggressive pricing of some of cider sales growth of 7.0% and volume growth of 6.1% year-on-year.
across other markets has also led to further savings.
functional teams have focused on the launch of both our competitors.
on the essential In Finland we announced in September last Kronenbourg Blanc and the Super Chilled founts to In 2005, the UK made further progress on the New product development NPD has also aspect of a been a key part of our success this year and we year the movement of 400,000 hectolitres of ensure high impact execution in the trade in 4000 cost savings programme to increase operational bottling capacity from Tornio to the brewery in bars across France.
In total 55m of the 60m cost savings believe that we are now leading the category in consumer-led both new product and in technological innovation.
Lahti, realising both cost and productivity savings.
In addition, the pull-through will be driven programme are now announced and the control of While the increasing cost of energy challenges by a significant increase in Advertising & Promotion our cost base remains a priority.
business: creating In 2004 NPD was 4% of branded net sales, which we increased to 10% in 2005. our cost base, we are taking measures to mitigate A&P behind our key premium brands in 2006.
While the UK continues to be competitive and brands that people the impact in the short to medium term.
We will And lastly, on 16 February we announced the regulations such as the imminent smoking ban may The new Super Chilled technology has clearly put great momentum behind Fosters in the UK, seek to reduce cost and spread operational best proposed sale of the Champigneulles brewery in Nancy.
have an adverse effect on the industry, we believe love to drink.
As a result of this comprehensive plan, that we can continue to out-perform this market.
which has grown sales by 10% in the period.
There are now over 50,000 condensation founts In addition we continue to focus on cash we intend to remain competitive in a difficult generation, constantly review existing assets economic environment.
PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTURE in the UK.
We are rolling the technology out in our major markets, driving a whole new drinking and divest those that do not provide an 2005 has shown just how powerful the groups acceptable return.
brand portfolio can be, especially when combined experience across continental Europe.
By the end of 2006, we plan to have increased this total to over with a rigorous focus on the cost base and the efficient asset utilisation of our business.
We believe 100,000 founts: 14,000 of them outside the UK.
Beer with food is another exciting category that continuing this approach will strengthen the groups competitive position across its markets and at the that we are driving, an initiative inspired in Portugal by Sagres Bohemia.
Bohemia accounted for same time drive further shareholder value.
The dual strategy around half the growth for both volume and value of driving value of the overall Sagres brand.
We are also putting greater focus on low-alcohol in mature markets beer.
Kronenbourg Pur Malt is up 40% in France and has now been launched in Portugal and in the and volume in Middle East.
emerging markets Looking now at our total Advertising and Promotion A&P spend across the business, we has delivered are confident that our increased A&P investment Tony Froggatt a satisfying enabled us to grow value, which in turn represents Chief Executive solid return on investment.
performance overall in what was a tough year in a number of our markets.
06 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 07
