Chairmans statement Kevin Beeston Executive Chairman 2005 was an outstanding year for Serco.
Markets continue to grow, primarily driven by governments' needs to control spending and improve the quality of public services.
Our public service ethos and commitment to partnership enable us to win more than 90% of rebids and 50% of new bids.
This success is built on a firm foundation: consistent, high quality service to satisfied customers.
Our balanced portfolio, spread across our chosen sectors and international markets, allows us to target the best opportunities.
The forward order book stands at a record level and none of our ten highest revenue contracts are due for rebid before the end of 2010.
We remain confident of continuing double-digit growth and increasing margins.
We grew Light Railway contract, valued at around 400m revenue by 38.1% to 2,260m, with organic growth over up to nine years.
Profit before tax and intangible we became preferred bidder for a 15-year contract amortisation PBTA also increased strongly, by valued at around 1bn to provide marine services 28.5% to 91.5m, with organic PBTA growth of to the UK Ministry of Defence MoD.
Earnings per share before intangible rebids now signed or at preferred bidder stage, amortisation grew 22.9% to 14.09p.
After intangible none of our ten largest contracts by annual revenue amortisation, profit before tax grew 21.7% to are due for renewal before the end of 2010.
77.9m and earnings per share increased by 15.3% to 11.66p.
Our record of winning new contracts was also excellent.
As in previous years, we won more than The recommended final dividend of 2.06p per 50% of new bids in 2005, underlining the strength share gives a total for the year of 2.97p, an of our reputation, our ability to be selective in increase of 12.9%.
targeting new work and continuing innovative solutions.
Amongst many notable wins, we were Our cash performance remains strong, with Group appointed preferred bidder for a 35-year contract EBITDA to cash conversion of 90% 2004: 93% valued at around 1.2bn to provide support contributing to a Group free cash flow of 73.8m services to three hospitals in Leicester, and we for the year 2004: 55.8m.
signed a 23-year contract valued at around 400m to support the MoDs Defence Academy.
In total during 2005, we signed contracts and extensions valued at 2.6bn and we were appointed Our two largest acquisitions ITNET now Serco preferred bidder for contracts totalling 2.4bn.
Solutions and RCI now part of Serco Inc had the anticipated positive impact, adding 333.9m We have maintained our win rate of more than 90% to revenue and 23.6m 10.3m after funding on rebids, demonstrating the quality of service we costs to PBTA.
The highest profile re-competition during 2005 was the Docklands www.
com 7 Chairmans statement The new skills and capabilities they have brought In the UK, the home affairs market is driven by the to the Group are already delivering benefits.
change in government focus from implementing For example, Serco Solutions was instrumental in initiatives to the delivery of outcomes - reducing winning a 125m Small Business Service contract crime and the fear of crime.
We estimate that this from the UK Department of Trade and Industry.
market is worth 2.5bn per annum and growing fast.
Serco Inc is enjoying strong growth and will provide We have created a new position in healthcare, a platform for expanding our North American which is among the largest and fastest growing presence into other sectors such as transport.
areas of UK Government spending some 89bn in 2005 6.
The Government continues to invest We are leveraging the benefits of our increasing some 70bn per annum in education and we see scale and achieving efficiencies by centralising the opportunities in childrens services and information purchasing of materials and developing a shared and communications technology emerging from services facility for our back office functions such the recent Education Bill.
In science, the formation as finance and administration.
We have streamlined of the UKs Nuclear Decommissioning Authority our management structure, removed unnecessary has created a market worth around 2bn per bureaucracy and begun the implementation of a annum.
Most areas of the public sector are seeing SAP financial system.
These initiatives together budgetary pressure and in response are changing with selective bidding and continued management the way they work.
In UK defence, we expect our of our business portfolio will benefit our PBTA addressable market to double to 8bn per annum margins in 2006 and beyond.
by 2010 as the MoD focuses resources, continues to civilianise and seeks cost savings.
Visibility of future revenue remains excellent.
At 31 December 2005, our forward order book stood at a A similar pattern is emerging in North America, the record 13.4bn and we had visibility of 91% of our largest services market in the world.
The market is planned revenue for 2006, 77% for 2007 and 64% estimated at $2,000bn per annum, of which around for 2008. one third is at the federal level and the remainder with state and local governments.
The annual US At the same date, we had contracts valued at defence budget is nearly $400bn and rising.
Some 2.6bn at preferred bidder and a further 2.7bn market segments are looking at private sector of bids where we have been shortlisted to the service provision for the first time and more final two or three bidders.
established markets such as municipal services and transportation are moving to more Favourable drivers worldwide sophisticated, performance-based contracting as Our opportunities for growth are created by two the emphasis shifts from lowest cost to best value, principal drivers: the necessity for central and local a trend which plays to our strengths.
governments to control their spending and their need to respond to social pressures for improved We also see exciting prospects in parts of Europe public services.
notably Germany, where economic and political conditions are accelerating the trend towards Our business portfolio, spread across different public private partnerships and the Middle East, sectors and around the world, allows us to target in particular the United Arab Emirates.
In Asia our resources towards the best opportunities.
Pacific, the Australian defence and transport Visibility of planned revenue 2006 91% 75 % 12 % 4% 2007 77% 60 % 12 % 5% 2008 64% 47 % 13 % 4% order book extensions and rebids preferred bidder 8 Annual review and accounts 2005 markets continue to offer good potential, while the opening of our Shanghai, China office positions us to explore opportunities as the regional government pursues its ambitious public service objectives.
Dedicated professionals People are at the heart of our business.
Throughout 2005, the dedication, expertise and professionalism of Serco colleagues around the world were critical to our performance.
Notwithstanding their daily achievements in bringing service to life, their wholehearted response to the tsunami in south-east Asia, the London bombings, the hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico and the Pakistan earthquake, epitomised the spirit that defines Serco.
Board Since his appointment as a Non-Executive Director in April 2000, Ralph Hodge has played a vital role in shaping the direction of our business.
As he prepares to step down from the Board, we would like to place on record our gratitude for his contribution.
We wish him a long and healthy retirement.
The Board has approved the appointment of Leonard V. Broese van Groenou as a Non-Executive Director, effective from 3 April 2006.
We are delighted to welcome him to Serco.
Continuing positive outlook Governments around the world are continuing to face significant pressures to provide better public services at lower cost and our market opportunities are unprecedented.
In the UK, our growth is being fuelled by the development of a mixed economy, which incorporates the private sector in the delivery of public services, and our ability to deliver customers desired outcomes, which enable us to develop long term relationships which in turn drive our organic growth.
The Group has identified in excess of 21bn of opportunities across our markets.
The breadth of these opportunities, together with our approach to selective bidding, portfolio management and efficiency will contribute to increasing margins.
We are confident of achieving double-digit growth for the foreseeable future.
