SEVERN TRENT PLC 02 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Business performance we are the largest UK operator.
We have We announced in January 2005 that Severn control over disposal through having a large Trent Water would accept Ofwats Final Price landfill operation, probably joint second in Determination for 2005-2010.
This is the terms of void space, together with a number single most important event for the group of strategic alliances to take recovered in 2004 2005. materials.
We have excellent special waste capabilities through our treatment centres.
Ofwats final AMP4 Determination allows No other company has these combined Severn Trent Water to raise prices by 24% strengths in the UK.
before inflation, equivalent to around 53 per property over the five year period.
Even New legislation and increased landfill tax will after this rise, Severn Trent Waters average impact on all aspects of Biffas business.
But household bills will remain among the lowest changes in legislation also create new in its sector.
business opportunities in pre-treatment, special waste and integrated waste The efficiency targets set by Ofwat are management.
With the Hales integration now extremely challenging.
The Determination complete, Biffa is in a good position to includes a reduction in the allowance for maximise these opportunities and to develop capital maintenance costs, particularly in good organic growth going forward.
respect of mains renewal, and a reduction in the costs allowed for alternative sludge Severn Trent Laboratories, the worlds disposal methods.
The Determination includes leading environmental testing company, has sufficient costs to fund only half of Severn experienced extremely challenging market Trent Waters pension deficit.
In addition, there remain other areas Legislation and public concern will drive the such as electricity costs, business rates and growth of markets like indoor air quality, food operational areas where the Determination microbiology, endocrine disrupters, and allows for smaller cost increases than are perchlorate testing.
STL has put in place the forecast in the company plan.
expertise and facilities to keep it at the forefront of these and other emerging Severn Trent Water is already performing markets.
at or close to Ofwats operating and capital efficiency frontiers.
We want to continue this The Water purification and operating services so plans are being put in place to maintain business continues to perform well.
HeadSevern Trent Water as one of the most efficient quartered in the US, it supplies technology and companies in the water sector, in terms of expertise to private and public sector clients both operating costs and capital investment.
The water purification market will continue to grow and our strong We are determined to improve our market position and brand recognition will performance to meet all these challenges.
enable us to compete vigorously.
While much of our management focus has This business exploits technology and been concerned with the Ofwat Determination, capability from our UK water expertise so is we have continued to develop our waste attractive to Severn Trent going forward.
management company, Biffa, into a leading integrated waste management company.
Corporate responsibility Severn Trent was named as the leading utility We have achieved scale in the important in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the Industrial Commercial collection area where fourth consecutive year.
This is the first time Severn Trent produced satisfactory results overall in 2004 2005.
Excluding the impact of exchange rates, turnover rose in all the main businesses of water and sewerage, waste management, laboratories and water purification and operating services.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 03 that any utility has won this category four management, also retired at the end of dedicated and highly trained staff whose times in a row.
We thank him for hard work and commitment ensures we 38 years of service and wish him well.
have the ability to achieve our objectives.
Severn Trents award was made after He certainly deserves his OBE for services an assessment of the quality of our to the water industry and to engineering.
Outlook management and performance in terms of The finalisation of the AMP4 Determination integrating economic, environmental and I am extremely grateful to Martin Flower, senior provides greater certainty for Severn Trent social considerations into business strategies, independent non-executive Director, who Water going forward and sets challenging while continuing to enhance competitiveness agreed to become Deputy Chairman from 6 but clear financial and service targets, which and brand reputation.
July 2004 to ensure continuity on the Board the company is well positioned to deliver.
and support for our new management team.
Biffa anticipates organic growth within Our businesses are one of the UKs largest the competitive waste sector in the UK managers of renewable carbon which is Colin Matthews arrived in September 2004 as a result of its technology, its scale and biodegradable waste and sewage sludge, as Acting Managing Director of Severn Trent through new opportunities driven by waste that can be utilised to generate renewable Water and took over as Group Chief Executive legislation.
Reduced federal spending on electricity.
We handle approximately 12% on 1 February 2005, on the retirement of the environment is expected to continue the of the UKs waste renewable carbon Robert Walker.
difficult market conditions for Laboratories excluding agriculture.
The UK market Colins wide experience with Americas for Laboratories is expected to remain In 2004 2005 we generated around 690 General Electric Company, British Airways, strong.
The Services business is expected GWh of renewable electricity which equates Transco and Hays means we have appointed to continue to grow in line with favourable to 5% of the UKs renewable electricity.
a first class individual with an engineering market conditions.
and operational background who can build The objective over the next five years is to Group results on the success of our businesses.
We are ensure customers in the groups regulated Overall, the Severn Trent group has delivered fortunate to have him lead our group.
and non-regulated businesses get the a satisfactory performance in 2004 2005, benefits of high quality and cost effective with group profit before tax, goodwill As indeed we are with Tony Wray, who joined services while ensuring that investors receive amortisation and exceptional items at 262.2 the Board as Managing Director of Severn an appropriate return.
million, a decrease of 3.8% after incremental Trent Water on 7 March 2005 from Eircom, pension charges of 31.3 million.
Group having been previously Director Asset The Board of Severn Trent Plc intends to profit before tax and exceptional items was Management and then National Operations maintain, as a minimum, group dividends 232.1 million 242.8 million and group Director, Transco.
in real terms at least up to 2009 2010. profit before tax was 217.3 million Our shareholders can be confident in this 254.4 million.
We also welcomed Rachel Brydon Jannetta as a dividend floor for the next five years.
and Mark Wilson to the Board in September Our objective is, of course, to do better The Board is proposing a final dividend of 2004.
Rachel is President and CEO of Severn with real growth over the AMP4 period.
30.30p 29.27p to be paid on 31 August Trent Laboratories, based in the US.
This would give a total dividend for Group Finance Director, having been Finance the year of 48.51p, an increase of 3.1%.
and Regulation Director in Severn Trent Water.
Management and staff As you know, I succeeded David Arculus as Since my appointment as Chairman, we have Sir John Egan Chairman of Severn Trent Plc on 1 January carried out a rigorous Board effectiveness Chairman 2005.
I am delighted to take up my role as review with the help of independent Chairman as I regard Severn Trent as one of consultants, which has generated a number the best managed companies in the utility of actions to secure improvements to Board sector.
John Banyard, executive Director of Severn Although I am relatively new to Severn Trent Trent Water with responsibility for asset I have discovered already that there is a
