6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 1 Chairmans review Its all adding up for Shire.
Increasing competition from generic drugs 2004: $1,363.2 million.
Although there were and patent expirations present another major diluted losses per ordinary share for the year challenge to the pharmaceutical industry.
of 35.5 2004: diluted earnings per share We are responding by focusing R&D in the of 19.3, this included a goodwill impairment specialty area with products for smaller of $526 million 2004: $133 million in relation populations and biologics as well as into goodwill created on the acquisition of licensing or developing drugs with strong BioChem Pharma, Inc. in 2001.
Our success has been this impairment, earnings per ordinary share built on innovative products that focus on would have been 69.1 in 2005 2004: 46.2. areas of unmet medical need and we will continue to pursue this proven formula.
On November 25, 2005, Shire plc, a Company Dr James Cavanaugh incorporated in England and Wales Shire, Chairman In todays market, pharmaceutical companies became the holding Company of Shire need to look to additional partnering, licensing, Pharmaceuticals Group plc SPG pursuant to mergers and acquisitions as ways to fill their a scheme of arrangement under Section 425 Shire made considerable progress in product pipelines as well as to minimize of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 2005 in positioning itself for success in a challenges created by the industrys recent the Scheme.
As a result of the Scheme, SPG global pharmaceutical industry that faces low productivity.
Almost 75% of New Chemical is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire.
unprecedented challenges and opportunities Entities NCEs entering the market are in the coming years.
The challenges are multispecialty products and or biologics, showing New Board member faceted, and therefore require a disciplined that the smaller, more nimble biotech model We are continuing to strengthen our Board and co-ordinated response on several fronts.
has proved particularly effective to date in of Directors with the appointment during yielding NCEs.
2005 of Patrick Langlois as a Non-Executive One challenge faced by Shire during 2005 Director and member of our Audit Committee.
was the Canadian government decision to Our acquisition in 2005 of Transkaryotic Mr Langlois, who held senior positions at withdraw ADDERALL XR, our medicine for Therapies Inc. TKT, a US-based Aventis S. A. and the Rhone-Poulenc Group, treating Attention Deficit and Hyperactivity biopharmaceutical company specializing brings additional expertise to our Board, Disorder ADHD, from the Canadian market.
in therapies for the treatment of rare genetic including a wealth of experience in financial Shires team demonstrated incredible diseases caused by protein deficiencies, and operational management within the success by reinstating ADDERALL XR in fits this profile.
The acquisition significantly global pharmaceutical industry.
Canada during 2005, following a review by builds our pipeline while bringing us a new, independent experts.
sustainable area of specialty pharmaceutical Positioned for growth expertise in a market where there are only Our industry offers significant growth The traditional investment and a small number of players.
We continue to opportunities for medium-sized specialty commercialization model of the pharmaceutical actively look at other acquisition opportunities pharmaceutical companies like Shire.
The industry that hinges on blockbuster brands involving companies with good products to fill global pharmaceuticals market is forecast could face considerable challenges in the our pipeline and pursue our growth strategy.
to reach an annual growth rate of 8.2% from coming years.
This reaffirms the value of 2004 to 2011 and achieve $967 billion in sales Shires strategy of diversifying our product We have strengthened our European focus in 2011.
Such expansion is expected, however, portfolio with a focus on the development and we also have established a presence in to be based on the ability of pharmaceutical and marketing of smaller, specialty products.
emerging markets through relationships with companies to adapt to changes in patient With our operating model of cross-functional, distributors.
We are well positioned to serve population, and target diseases of unmet global teams responsible for each of our the growing needs of these markets.
medical need to maximize revenue potential.
main therapeutic areas, nimble sales forces I am confident that we have the right strategy dedicated to building relationships with We are adapting our development and sales and the right people to be able to benefit from specialist physicians and their patients, processes to support a diverse product portfolio this future growth.
and a deep pipeline of innovative products and global markets, to realize financial gains with strong patent protection, we are best and continued growth.
positioned to respond to changing marketplace dynamics.
2005 results under IFRS Shires highly-focused growth strategy continued to produce superior results in 2005.
Revenues were up 17% to $1,599.3 million Dr James Cavanaugh Annual report and accounts for the 1 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc
