Chairmans Associated British Foods plc statement Chairmans statement Substantial investment has been made to strengthen our established businesses and to add new ones.... Our expenditure on acquisitions and fixed assets was over 1.5 billion.
There have been major developments in Another major development was the The outstanding feature among our longer the group over the past year.
Substantial publication by the European Commission standing businesses was the excellent investment has been made to strengthen our of proposals for the reform of the European performance of Primark.
The clothing market established businesses and to add new ones, sugar regime.
The thrust of the proposals is always fiercely competitive and in the past the main benefits of which will be realised over will be to reduce productive capacity in the year there has been evidence of price the coming two years.
There has been a EU, eliminate subsidised exports and reduce deflation in the UK leading to little, if any, satisfactory advance in overall trading results support prices.
Our UK sugar production overall growth in the market.
Primark, with adjusted operating profit improving by is highly efficient and we expect British however, achieved substantial like-for-like 18% on the year before and adjusted earnings, Sugar to continue to be a strong force in sales growth and, with the addition of some reflecting lower net investment income, ahead the European markets, although an adverse new space, grew sales by 17% and operating by 14%.
However, some of our businesses impact on profit can be expected particularly profit by 30%.
have faced a tough trading environment.
04 Elsewhere in the group there were good Our expenditure on acquisitions and fixed The consequence of these major developments performances in UK grocery, British Sugar assets was over 1.5bn.
The two main areas is a shift in the source of our sales and profits Overseas and agriculture.
However, there of investment were in the international yeast both by type of business and geographically.
were lower profits at British Sugar in the UK and bakery ingredients business and in a This is already apparent from the segmental and our Australian bakery businesses, where significant number of new stores for Primark.
analysis of our business where there has market conditions were difficult.
The results While much of the benefit of the AB Mauri been a further reduction in the proportion of all the businesses are covered in detail investment, made on 30 September 2004, of group profits derived from EU sugar and a in the operating review which follows.
was seen in the year, there is more to come.
broadening of the contribution from overseas.
The major part of the investment in Primark We expect this trend to continue.
In concluding my comments on trading was to acquire stores from the Allders and performance, I should highlight the progress Littlewoods chains.
The first of these opened The larger part of the satisfactory advance in at Twinings as it approaches its 300th as a Primark a few weeks ago and the roll-out trading results came from acquisitions.
Even after the investment of the rest of the 47 stores will continue the main contributor was the yeast and bakery in a major restructuring of its worldwide progressively over the next 15 months.
By ingredients business which is bedding down production facilities and much increased early 2007 Primark will be trading from some well under our ownership.
Over-capacity in advertising and promotion spend, it showed 4 million square feet compared to 2.3 million the important North American market and good growth.
It is well set for its next century.
The contribution from the new a sharp rise in the cost of molasses, a key stores will only then be fully realised.
In the ingredient, held back the results from the As well as the major investments described case of Littlewoods, we acquired the whole of bakers yeast operations but appropriate above, expenditure to maintain and enhance the business, identified 41 stores to be traded management action has been taken and the efficiency of our plants and other fixed as Primark and are disposing of the remaining we expect much better results as the current assets has continued at high levels.
At the time of writing, agreement on year progresses.
The US herbs & spices group is strongly cash generative and net sale had been reached on over half of the business and the Capullo oil brand in cash funds total 224m at the year end even remaining stores.
Mexico both exceeded our expectations after over 1.5bn of investment.
The groups and contributed to the development of our financial position remains strong and is fully portfolio of grocery brands in the Americas.
capable of supporting further investment in our businesses.
Chairmans Annual Report and Accounts 2005 statement Martin Adamson Chairman Triennial valuations of the groups major UK Employees Dividends pension schemes have been carried out in The group now employs some 42,000 The directors propose a final dividend of the past year.
The valuations take account people in 41 countries.
It is their efforts and 12.0p which, together with the interim of 6.0p of both increased life expectancy, based on enterprise in demanding conditions which already paid, makes a total of 18.0p for the the latest predictions available to the groups have produced the results of the past year.
The proposed actuaries, and current bond yields.
Following On behalf of shareholders I wish to thank final dividend will be paid on 13 January the valuations, annual contributions have them for all their hard work and the progress 2006 to shareholders on the register on been increased and arrangements made which they have delivered.
The directors intend to to clear, over the next two years, the maintain a policy of increasing dividends small actuarial deficit using our funding Outlook in line with medium-term earnings growth.
However, using the FRS 17 Most of our businesses are experiencing assumptions, there was a net surplus at the sharp increases in energy and related input 05 end of the financial year which is reflected costs and we can be certain that competition in these accounts.
for our businesses will be robust.
They are Martin Adamson nevertheless well placed to meet these Chairman Board changes challenges.
Primark has continued to trade On 3 November 2004 Tim Clarke was well and there is a programme to open appointed to the board.
Mr Clarke is chief significant additional retail selling space in executive of Mitchells & Butlers plc and was the first half of the current year.
Alternative previously chief executive of Six Continents PLC arrangements have been made quickly prior to the demerger of Mitchells & Butlers.
to continue supply of stock following the recent fire at Primarks main UK warehouse, Peter Jackson decided to retire as Chief although some limited disruption can be Executive and as a director with effect from anticipated.
We expect further overall progress 31 March 2005.
He had been Chief Executive in group results in the coming year.
since 1999 having joined the board in 1992.
He was managing director of British Sugar The roll-out of new Primark stores converted for some years before it was acquired by from Littlewoods will occur progressively from ABF.
In his time as Chief Executive great spring 2006 until early 2007 and returns will progress was made in operating performance build gradually.
As a consequence, the and in the strategic development of the reduction in net investment income will result group.
Peters contribution over this period in relatively modest growth in earnings next has been critical to our success and has year while the benefits of our investment will been greatly valued by his colleagues.
only be more fully realised in the following year.
We wish him the very best for the future.
The board is confident that the benefits from George Weston was appointed Chief Executive the significant investments made this past as successor to Peter Jackson.
year will be delivered over the next two years.
