8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:47 Page 04 Chairmans Statement combined company that could have marketed Dr Jerry Karabelas Flutiform itself in some markets.
The discussions were called off by SkyePharma due to uncertainties over the other partys prospects.
SkyePharma was unable to disclose this at the time due to reasons of confidentiality and the possibility that these discussions could resume at some time in the future.
In November, we also received an opportunistic takeover approach from Innovata PLC.
As a result, the Board felt that it was in shareholders interests to explore all options and consequently appointed Lehman Brothers to conduct a full strategic review There is no disguising that 2005 was a difficult year of all the options open to the Company.
Despite a number of significant achievements, outlined in the Review of Operations The conclusion of this review in early 2006 did not below, we did not complete a development lead to an offer for the entire Company on terms agreement for Flutiform, our major pipeline that the Board felt able to recommend to shareholders.
As explained in more detail in the feature However, there were expressions of interest in on page 16, we believe that Flutiform has individual parts of the business.
The Board then substantial commercial value.
Faced with the took a strategic decision to divest the US-based prospect of a delay to the development of this injectables business in order to reduce the Companys important product, which might have impaired projected cash outflow over the next few years and its commercial potential, we took the decision in to raise funds to concentrate on the oral and September to raise 35 million net of expenses inhalation businesses.
The investment bank UBS by means of a rights issue to keep Flutiform on has been retained recently to manage this sale and its planned development timeline through Phase III.
The injectables business As such, our target launch date in the USA remains includes DepoCyt and DepoDur, both marketed 2009.
We are convinced that proceeding with the products, and the lead injectable pipeline product clinical development of Flutiform ourselves and DepoBupivacaine.
funding this development through a rights issue were in shareholders best interests.
In January 2006 certain shareholders requisitioned an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM seeking Our decision was vindicated by the excellent to remove the Companys then Chairman and to terms we obtained in the agreement with Kos appoint a nominated director to SkyePharmas Pharmaceuticals for the US market that we Board with the ultimate aim of having him appointed announced in May 2006.
Kos is a specialty as Executive Chairman.
Although this motion was pharmaceutical company that has an excellent defeated at the EGM in early March, the Board has track record of successful marketing against major since made a number of changes and introduced a competitors and Kos shares our view that Flutiform process whereby major investors are now involved will become a major product.
We remain in in the selection of new Non-Executive Directors.
negotiation with potential strategic marketing partners for Flutiform for other key territories.
Board Changes In January 2006, Ian Gowrie-Smith stepped down Prior to reaching the decision to ask shareholders from his role as Non-Executive Chairman when I was for funding, we explored a number of financing appointed in his place.
Ian subsequently resigned as alternatives to fund the development of Flutiform a Director in February.
As shareholders will be aware, and also a variety of strategic options for the Company.
Ian founded SkyePharma in 1996 and has seen it These included discussions concerning a transaction grow to become a substantial business.
He remains that, had it been successful, would have created a a shareholder but will now be focusing his energies 04 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005
