2 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement The past year has seen good progress in Smiths with both sales and headline earnings ahead of the previous year.
This growth has come from across our business indicating the underlying strength of the Company.
I am also encouraged by the breadth of the progress I see throughout Smiths.
Not only are our markets growing, but also new product development and other initiatives are enhancing the Companys position.
At the same time, our acquisitions have strengthened the Donald Brydon Company, making an immediate financial contribution, as Chairman well as broadening and deepening our technology base.
It is the excellence of the Smiths management that has made this progress possible.
During my first year as Chairman I have visited many of the Groups operations both in the United Kingdom and overseas.
I have been struck by the dedication and professionalism of our employees.
There is a restless atmosphere throughout our operations born of a belief that improvement in all that we do is always possible.
I have found that focus on improved production techniques, technology Headline earnings per share pence developments, innovative customer-oriented solutions and a passion for efficiency is common throughout all Smiths 18% businesses.
2005 54.3 2004 45.9 Elsewhere in this report the Chief Executive sets out the principal strengths that apply across our business.
These strengths are helping us focus on markets and technologies to deliver growth, both in sales and profit.
Since I became Chairman in Dividend pence September 2004, I have asked the Board to concentrate on two issues: creating shareholder value from our existing activities 7.4% and ensuring that we have the right businesses to continue to 2005 29 build shareholder value.
These themes have underscored the 2004 27 work of the Board over the past 12 months, and will continue to do so looking forward.
Smiths has a tradition of successful and timely disposals and Statutory earnings per share of using capital wisely in its acquisition strategy.
I have been impressed by the disciplines applied to both and, of course, 2005 2004 they will continue to underpin both activities going forward.
39.3p 38.0p 3.4% 3 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Chairmans statement continued As to the Board itself, there have been several changes since The Board has also been pleased with the progress made in last years report.
Keith Orrell-Jones retired last September respect of environment, health and safety EHS issues.
We are after an important period as Smiths Group Chairman.
He made continuing to reduce the environmental impact of operations a considerable contribution to Smiths and during his period by successfully meeting new targets.
At the same time, the as Chairman he made many friends.
number of work-related accidents is also falling.
A full EHS report is issued annually offering a comprehensive review of Sir Colin Chandler, formerly Deputy Chairman, stepped down at this important aspect of our corporate footprint.
His wisdom and counsel will be missed.
On the executive side, Einar Lindh and Lawrence Kinet With effect from 1 August 2005, Smiths will prepare its accounts both retired.
I thank them for all their various contributions to using International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
I am pleased to say that Einars Further details on this topic are outlined on pages 28 to 30.
27 years of experience at Smiths is not yet lost to us: he has Returning to performance in the past year, the consolidated agreed to act as head of our medical business until the current results show an increase in sales from continuing activities search process is concluded.
of 13% and of headline earnings per share of 18%.
As a result Looking forward, Alan Thomson will retire next year, and we of this good performance, the Board is recommending that the have announced that John Langston will be our next Finance dividend for the full year be increased by 7% to 29p.
Alan will be a hard act to follow, and we are fortunate the final dividend is raised to 19.75p.
to have already on the Board such a well-qualified successor.
It is a privilege to chair any major British company.
To lead Along with other changes, these steps are an integral part of such a dedicated company built on technical excellence and our phased succession programme, for which we have the high-quality employees is an even greater privilege.
to thank everyone who works for Smiths for their commitment, Much has been said and written about the Combined Code on determination and loyalty during the last 12 months.
The Smiths Board currently complies strong foundations there is every reason to be optimistic about with the Code with one exception.
The Board has concluded that the future.
I should be a member of the Remuneration Committee and Donald Brydon participate in discussions.
Should circumstances so dictate, Chairman the Board would have no compunction but to explain the need to deviate further.
The relationship between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is central to successful governance and I am delighted to say that there is good rapport between Keith and myself, and our working relationship is proving highly productive.
Boards suitably independently minded must do what is right in the interest of shareholders and I am in no doubt that your Board has the necessary independence to behave in this manner.
