AstraZeneca Annual Report and 2 Form 20-F Information 2005 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Board also concluded that the environment Total Shareholder Return: AstraZeneca in which we operate remains difficult with compared with FTSE 100 over five years challenges to the prices of medicines, increasingly high regulatory hurdles for products 110 and greater demands on the accountability 100 of the industry, all combining to impact the 90 introduction and use of medicines.
We remain 80 focused on meeting the challenges and maximising the opportunities to deliver 70 sustainable profit growth.
60 50 Changes to the composition of the Board were Jan 01 Jan 02 Jan 03 Jan 04 Jan 05 Jan 06 made in 2005.
I became Chairman in January AZ FTSE 100 and John Patterson joined the Board at the same time as Executive Director responsible Source: Thomson Financial Datastream for Development.
AstraZeneca delivered an outstanding financial approved at the 2005 Annual General performance in 2005 with good growth in In March, David Brennan was appointed an Meeting.
The Plan introduces longer term sales of recently introduced products and Executive Director and in July the Board incentive opportunities for Senior Executives good market performance in all continents.
appointed him as Chief Executive Officer with of the Company accompanied by demanding Productivity improvements made an important effect from 1 January 2006 on the retirement measures of performance and is designed to contribution.
We have made progress in of Sir Tom McKillop.
support the Companys objective of delivering meeting the challenge of rebuilding our late superior value to shareholders.
High levels David Brennan has more than 30 years of investment in research were maintained experience in the pharmaceutical industry with In 2006, we will continue to focus on the top throughout 2005 with new facilities and projects a strong record of management achievement line sales growth of our key products: on in Sweden, the UK, the US, China and India.
in the leadership of our North American delivering the pipeline: on reinforcing it with business.
The Board is confident that he will innovative products both from our own science AstraZenecas share price performance was lead the Company and our strong Senior and from outside the Company when strong during 2005 with a 50% increase in Executive Team with distinction.
appropriate: and on maintaining the momentum absolute terms compared to a rise in the FTSE of our productivity improvements.
The graph above plots On behalf of the Board, I wish to thank confident that we will continue to deliver our five year Total Shareholder Return TSR Sir Tom McKillop for his outstanding benefits for patients, rewards for shareholders against the FTSE 100 index re-based to 100 achievement and dedication as AstraZenecas and value for wider society.
at the start of the rolling five year period.
We first Chief Executive and throughout his include in our Directors Remuneration Report whole career at the Company.
Through his information on the Companys TSR compared inspirational leadership, commitment and drive, to the TSR of a selected peer group of 12 AstraZeneca has become one of the worlds other pharmaceutical companies.
leading pharmaceutical companies making an important contribution to better healthcare The Board re-affirmed its policy to increase for patients worldwide.
LOUIS SCHWEITZER dividends in line with earnings while maintaining Chairman dividend cover in the 2-3 times range.
Following Our Deputy Chairman, Hkan Mogren was a strong earnings performance in 2005, appointed a Knight Commander of the British the Board has recommended a second interim Empire during the year for services to the dividend of $0.92, 0.518, SEK7.02 per pharmaceutical industry and to UK-Sweden Ordinary Share bringing the total dividend trade relations.
I congratulate him most warmly for the year to $1.30, 0.737, SEK10.01 per for this honour.
Ordinary Share, an increase in dollar terms of 38%.
In addition to our comprehensive review of the Companys strategy, the Board at its regular Share buy-back programmes approved by meetings conducted financial and functional shareholders at our AGM, under which we reviews of the business, with particular return cash to shareholders in excess of our attention being paid this year to corporate anticipated requirements for future investment, governance and compliance, safety, health, amounted to $3,001 million in 2005. environment and risk assessment, as well as a review of all group policies and an examination The Board conducted a regular strategy of the performance of the Board itself.
review during the year which confirmed the long term attractiveness of the pharmaceutical Following an undertaking given to shareholders industry, with demand for improved healthcare in 2000 to review the Companys Executive continuing to be driven by an ageing population, Remuneration policies after five years, undiagnosed and unmet medical needs, proposals to establish the AstraZeneca technological advances and increased Performance Share Plan were tabled and affluence in many emerging markets.
