Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 3 Chairmans statement In 2005 Spirent was transformed into a focused communications business.
John Weston CBE Chairman In 2005 Spirent was transformed into a focused communications James Wyness will retire from the Board with effect from the business.
In the first half of the year, we carried out major date of the 2006 Annual General Meeting and we would like to restructuring within the Service Assurance division.
In December thank him for his valuable contribution during his long service we announced the proposed disposal of the HellermannTyton as a non-executive director.
Marcus Beresford will assume the Division and our share of its associated companies to funds responsibilities of the senior independent director on Mr Wyness controlled by Doughty Hanson & Co Limited.
consideration of approximately 288.9 million, at a cash I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our employees free debt free equivalent value represents fair value for the for their contribution during this year of transformation.
We wish business and reflects its strong performance under our the employees of HellermannTyton success under their new management.
As a result of this sale, the Groups financial ownership and thank them for their contribution over many years.
position has been signicantly strengthened.
Following approval by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 24 January 2006, the disposal was completed on 15 February 2006.
As previously indicated, the proceeds have been used to repay the outstanding loan notes of 71.5 million together with the make whole amount of 7.4 million and associated swap break fees of 2.3 million.
In addition, a special contribution of 47.0 million has been made to substantially fund the UK final salary pension scheme and the Board intends to return up to 50 million to shareholders through an onOperating profit loss and return on sales are used by the Group as key measures of operating performance and are stated in the text before the effect of material one-time market share repurchase programme over the coming year.
items, goodwill impairment and share-based payment so that period-on-period comparisons are not distorted.
To reect the transformation of the Group, a proposal will be The HellermannTyton Division for the purposes of these results has been presented as a made at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to rename discontinued operation and our financial results are presented and discussed for the Spirent plc as Spirent Communications plc.
continuing Spirent Group, unless otherwise stated.
