Chairmans Statement During the last few years the Group has Chairmans positioned itself in a number of strategic Statement areas, and invested substantially, to become a major international offshore and onshore drilling contractor as well as a world leader in drilling rig design, construction and operation.
I am also pleased with the progress that Overview we are making in improving the profitability of As a result, the Group now has a significant Prosafe Drilling Services in Norway, which we presence in the North Sea, Russia, West and acquired in August 2005, by reducing downNorth Africa, the Middle East and the Caspian time and improving contract performance.
Region, where it has consolidated its position In addition, KCA DEUTAG has recently agreed as the leading offshore drilling contractor in the first of three formal two year extensions to the area.
its contract with Norsk Hydro for the provision The continuing strength of the price of oil of drilling operations on six platforms on the combined with the need of our major clients Norwegian Continental Shelf, up to July 2008. to maintain or increase their oil and gas During 2005, the Group was highly successful reserves provides the Group with significant in being awarded new contracts with a total profitable growth opportunities tempered value of approximately US$800 million.
I am only by the availability of rigs.
However, the delighted to say that we have continued to increasing demand for rigs is such that we gain new contracts and since early January 01 Executive continue to achieve improvements in day Chairman 2006 these have amounted to in excess of rates, with commensurate increases in Alasdair Locke.
margins, for land rigs across the fleet with Libya being the only exception, although this position is now improving.
Results The results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005 prepared on an IFRS basis are as follows: Turnover 377.0 million 2004: 359.3 million EBITDA 54.1 million 2004: 50.5 million Operating Profits: Drilling operations 24.9 million 2004: 25.5 million Operating Profits: Drilling engineering 7.4 million 2004: 6.8 million Total Operating Profits 29.5 million 2004: 29.3 million Profit before Taxation 26.3 million 2004: 27.8 million Basic Earnings per Share 9.6p 2004: 11.3p Adjusted Earnings per Share 10.1p 2004: 12.0p excluding exceptional items, intangible asset amortisation and discontinued activities excluding exceptional items and intangible asset amortisation The loss of 3.2 million 2004: 1.6 million from discontinued activities relates to the trading performance of Spear Technologies Inc. plus a write down of the Groups investment of 6.3 million in the company, of which 5.7 million relates to goodwill.
Due to the growing internationalisation of the Groups business and the importance of the US dollar to the Groups income stream, the Group will, as of 2006, report its results and financial statements in US dollars.
04 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement I would like to give my personal thanks to all Dividend Outlook our employees in every one of our world wide Taking account of the prospects for the Having retained all of our UK offshore locations for their commitment, hard work Group, the directors are recommending an contracts, and continuing to improve the and efforts during the year which is so crucial increase in the final dividend to 3.3p 2004: operational performance in Norway, we to the Groups continuing development.
Our 3.2p per ordinary share, which, taken with believe that our North Sea business is in good approach to this and other operational issues the interim dividend already paid, would health overall and, with increased activity in will enable the Group to continue to take full give a total distribution of 5.0p 2004: 4.8p the UK being sustained, we should generate advantage of the opportunities which current per ordinary share, an increase of 4.2%.
satisfactory results from this region.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid In the Caspian, with more projects due to on 2 June 2006 to eligible shareholders Conclusion come on stream in 2006 and 2007, there on the register at 5 May 2006. will be a growing contribution from this With the continuing buoyant demand for oil area.
Likewise we anticipate strong growth and gas, the hardening of land rig day rates, Board Appointment in activity in Sakhalin, with operations on two the coming on stream of offshore drilling in In December, I was delighted to welcome new platforms due to start up in 2007.
In all the Caspian region, and signs of increasing Holger Temmen, aged 39, to the Board cases the concomitant preparatory work will activity in the North Sea, I remain confident as an Executive Director.
commence in 2006 and we see our offshore that we can achieve substantial growth Holger, following his graduation from business, via those contracts which are during the course of this year, 2007 and Mnster University in 1990, joined the then already confirmed, continuing to increase its beyond.
In addition, the financial strength Deutag Group of companies.
Since October contribution in the short and medium-term.
of the Group allows us to consider strategic 2001 he has been a Director of KCA DEUTAG acquisitions which will further complement On land we are confident that our strategic Drilling Group Limited and he brings with our core activities.
positioning in Libya will become more him a wealth of commercial experience The figures that we have presented today significant as 2006 progresses with which will be of great benefit to the Group.
are, as we previously anticipated, in line contribution beginning to grow in 2007 Market Overview with market expectations.
We have also identified a number a significant and marked hardening of rates of other opportunities in North Africa, notably With oil prices widely predicted to remain across all our markets in the last few months, in Algeria, as well as Libya, which should see at high levels and most likely above $40 bbl, and we believe this trend will continue.
We investment in the near term.
combined with a continuing growth in the are, therefore, very confident of delivering worldwide demand for gas, the requirement The Middle East continues to be buoyant with above trend levels of performance in each to replace or increase reserves remains an improving day rates and more opportunities of the next several years.
We, therefore, see the dynamics presenting themselves in a number of areas.
in our market place as being highly In Russia the Group has confirmed contracts favourable in the near and medium-term.
Alasdair J. D. Locke in hand, which will lead to KCA DEUTAG There was a marked upturn in activity in Executive Chairman, 17 March 2006 operating 10 rigs, mainly in Siberia, by 2007. the UK North Sea during the second half of This confirms our strategic move to open the year which, following the all time lows a new office in Tyumen, giving us direct experienced in 2004 and earlier in 2005, has access to more projects over time as drives been very welcome.
The contract wins and to modernise the rig fleet, replace reserves consolidation in 2004 have benefited the and bring on new production gathers pace.
We do however There is a very high level of transparency remain concerned that the recent Pre-Budget of opportunities not only for our land rigs Announcement by the Chancellor may affect but also for other assets.
We are at the time our North Sea business in the medium-term, of writing in discussions regarding the as the evidence of a similar change in 2002 operation and management of jack-up would indicate a reduction in activity.
This is an area in The market in all of our operating areas which the Group has experience and we continues to be as favourable as we have anticipate further similar opportunities experienced and we will continue to make to arise in the future.
investments in land drilling units, assisted by The Group has some challenges, not least KCA DEUTAGs sister company Bentec which the attraction of good people.
Our policy will provide the capacity for new builds.
This of recruiting and training, as far as possible, is a major advantage to the Group given that people local to our operations is paying a number of major suppliers of rigs and rig dividends in this tight labour market.
equipment have declared themselves full in terms of capacity for the next few years.
