Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Chairmans Statement 01 DELIVERING VALUE Sir Robert Smith Chairman In my first year as Chairman, I am delighted very pleased that we again achieved progress His passion for, and interest in, all aspects to report that Scottish and Southern Energy in safety and environmental matters and in of the business were recognised throughout has delivered another excellent performance, customer service.
Bruces key achievement was to oversee enhancing value for shareholders by running the maturing of SSE from a recently-merged our businesses well and creating value by The credit for this goes to the people entity to an established, coherent business identifying new opportunities.
throughout SSE, whose commitment to our of significantly greater scope and scale.
customers and professionalism towards their Developments responsibilities is outstanding.
I am delighted David Sigsworth, Generation Director, and In our 2004 Annual Report, we said that the that this years performance is being given Henry Casley, non-Executive Director, retired speed and extent of change taking place in extra recognition through a special award from the Board in March and May 2005 the UK energy sector had opened up a series of SSE shares to every employee.
With almost 90 years service of major opportunities for SSE, and that our between them, Henry and David have been emphasis on maintaining our financial Progress outstanding servants of the industry.
They strength would enable us to exploit these Everyone in SSE understands that our played highly significant roles in the creation opportunities in full.
This has been confirmed shareholders now expect us to build on this of SSE in 1998 and in the development of the by the events of the past year.
With the success and to continue to deliver year-in, business.
Kevin Smith, Chief Executive of acquisition of Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge year-out progress.
The clarity of our core GKN, joined the Board in June 2004, bringing coal-fired power stations, we became the objective to deliver sustained real dividend with him his wide-ranging industrial and UKs second largest generator of electricity.
growth means that we have a clear purpose operational experience.
In energy supply, we became a six million and a strong focus on what needs to be done.
customer company for the first time.
We The Board now comprises four independent completed the electricity Distribution Price The delivery of good performance, the non-Executive Directors and four Executive Control Review and also agreed to invest in continuing emphasis on running our Directors, in addition to me as Chairman.
gas distribution networks positioning us businesses well, and the opportunities We believe that this is a good structure, which as the second biggest energy distributor in arising from our recent acquisitions and the ensures that the Board operates effectively the UK.
ongoing investment programme mean that and in line with the relevant standards of we have been able to recommend a step corporate governance.
These were the headline developments.
change increase in the final dividend, of In all parts of SSE, there were important 14.8%, to 30.3p.
From this higher level, we Future achievements every day, from delivering good have also been able to set ourselves a new While SSE has experienced much change service to customers to restoring electricity target of increasing the dividend by at least over the past two years, the fundamentals supplies more quickly than seemed possible.
4% in real terms in each of the three years remain the same: our emphasis on This is reflected in our results for the year, to March 2008. delivering sustained real growth in the where we delivered increases in profit before dividend: our commitment to delivering tax, earnings per share and the dividend.
Board excellence in everything we do: and our Over the past year, we have completed a focus on maintaining our financial strength, We also recognise that companies have to series of well-planned and well-trailed which has helped us to exploit the significant act responsibly in everything they do if their changes to the Board.
Bruce Farmer retired opportunities for the business that have financial strength is to be maintained and if as Chairman on 31 December 2004, having been identified.
As in the past, dividend value is to be delivered to shareholders.
I am led the Board with distinction for four years.
and delivery are what count in the future.
