SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 06 Chairmans Message Welcome Your Board is focused on creating shareholder value.
With its healthy balance sheet, strong management team and leading brands, SSL is well on the road to delivering future growth.
Ian Martin SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 07 Chairmans Message During the year we sold our medical Dividends businesses, allowing us to give full Your Board is recommending a final attention to our consumer healthcare dividend of 4.2 pence which is consistent brands, Durex, Scholl and our locally with our revised dividend policy which we owned brands, such as Full Marks, outlined a year ago.
This will make a total Syndol and Proxima Baby.
Overall sales dividend for the year of 6.2 pence.
The growth of our consumer business of final dividend will be paid on 8 September 3.8 per cent was driven by the success 2005 to shareholders on the register of Durex and Scholl footcare where we on 19 August 2005. have taken advantage of consumer-led innovation and targeted advertising.
Board Durex has had another successful year As already reported, Mark Moran joined with 4.4 per cent sales growth due, in as Group Finance Director on 7 June 2004 part, to the continued success of the having previously been Finance Director premium condom range of Pleasuremax at Porvair plc.
We have also welcomed and Performa.
Sales of Scholl footcare two Non-Executive Directors to the Board, grew by 5.3 per cent resulting from the Anna Catalano who was appointed on successful roll-out of Scholl Party Feet 11 November 2004 and Susan Murray, across our key markets.
In contrast, the appointed on 1 January 2005.
Both have Scholl footwear business has declined extensive sales and marketing experience by 5 per cent in line with the trend seen and are already making significant at the half year.
We are reshaping this contributions to the Board.
business to create greater awareness among consumers by offering modern Outlook styles in a wider range of distribution The completion of the disposal of our channels.
Sales of our locally owned medical business and their related brands and other consumer business obligations leaves us free to focus were broadly flat overall.
Sales of wound exclusively on the development of our management and Hibi products to the consumer brands.
The new year has purchasers of these businesses under begun satisfactorily and we believe that contract manufacturing arrangements the outlook for the remainder of the amounted to 9.5 million.
year and beyond is promising.
In November, we announced that our This is my last year as Chairman of SSL.
target was to double operating profit I am very pleased with the progress that for our continuing consumer business the restructured SSL is now making.
The from the 26.1 million reported last year Company has a healthy balance sheet, by March 2007.
We are well on track to a strong management team and, with achieve this.
Our continuing operating its leading brands, is well on the road profit for the year to 31 March 2005 was to delivering future growth.
After rebasing last years progressing with the appointment of operating profit for the impact of FRS 17, my successor and expect to make an the pro forma consolidation of our Indian announcement in due course.
joint venture and currency movements, we have achieved a 6 million increase in operating profit despite investing an additional 5 million in advertising and promotional expenditure.
Our underlying operating profit margin has increased by more than one percentage point to 9.3 per cent.
Ian Martin, Chairman Following the disposals, net debt of 23 May 2005 88.2 million was significantly lower than the 227.5 million as at last March.
Earnings per share on our continuing consumer business, before charging exceptional items, has more than tripled to 9.0 pence per share.
