S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 C HAIRMAN S S TATEMENT The results for the fty two weeks ended 29 July 2005 show turnover of Results 419.5 million 2004 410.3 million and underlying profit before taxation, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation of 39.1 million 2004 39.7 million.
profit before taxation was 11.4 million 2004 14.9 million.
Underlying earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation were 25.30p 2004 25.08p and basic earnings per share were 2.70p 2004 2.92p.
The results include an initial contribution to operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation of 4.15 million from SP Group for the forty six weeks since its acquisition in September 2004.
The profit before taxation, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation is similar to that achieved in the previous financial year and is in accordance with the indications which we gave at the time of our Interim Statement in April.
The charge for exceptional items and goodwill of 27.7 million represents the loss on disposal of Johler Druck 14.1 million which includes 5.9 million of goodwill previously written-off to reserves, exceptional costs relating to the consolidation of the Groups operations into fewer sites 9.9 million and goodwill amortisation and write off 3.7 million.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 12.15p per share, Dividends making total dividends of 17.15p per share for the year as a whole, the same as the previous year.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 2 December 2005 to shareholders on the register on 4 November 2005.
Demand for books and for point-of-sale services was resilient but, as Trading Conditions we indicated earlier in the year, most of our other markets continued to experience little growth, downward pricing pressure and over-capacity.
Our book sales were higher than in the previous year.
We maintained Books market share, mainly because our service levels are faster and more responsive than those offered by our competitors.
We produced over 50 per cent of the best sellers published during our financial year in both hardback and paperback formats.
Sales of fullment and other postproduction services also grew.
The results showed the benefit of our continuing investment in equipment and systems.
In the UK, demand for personalised direct mail products, especially Direct Response, Commercial from financial services customers, reduced sharply and the market for and Point-of-Sale less time-sensitive, longer-run products continued to face over-capacity, UK intensely competitive pricing and lower volumes.
During the year we rationalised our operations further through the closure of our factory in Bristol, many of whose customers we have continued to serve from elsewhere in the Group.
3 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 C HAIRMAN S S TATEMENT continued Demand for point-of-sale products and services remained steady.
SP Group made a contribution of 35.3 million to Group turnover in the forty six weeks since its acquisition.
We undertook new work for our client base, which comprises leading retail store chains and international brand companies.
We completed the consolidation of the point-of-sale operations previously carried out at St Ives Crayford into our site at Redditch towards the end of the period.
USA Commercial markets in the USA remained ercely competitive against a background of continuing over-capacity.
Sales were reduced, although we retained the more suitable work previously undertaken at Case-Hoyt, thus improving utilisation and returns at our other facilities.
We expanded the volumes of specialist franchise print work including on-line ordering and inventory control, fullment and distribution produced mainly at our Cleveland site.
Financial Demand for financial print in the USA was unchanged but continued low activity in the UK and Europe necessitated a further reduction in our cost base there, which was completed towards the end of the year.
Volumes of annual report printing grew, partly as a result of increased pagination.
Losses overall were again reduced.
Magazines Magazine sales in the UK were lower as a result of competitive UK pricing, principally because of over-capacity, and weak demand.
In the second half of the year we closed our factory at Caerphilly and have been successful in retaining the work previously produced there for our other sites.
During the year we commissioned a new high speed stitching line and two new 72-page presses to lower our cost of production and enhance service further.
USA In the USA, magazine sales grew and returns improved modestly as a result of better utilisation of our facilities.
Multimedia Sales to music and multimedia markets were maintained overall, mainly because of growth in demand for special packaging and DVD related products for video, audio and computer games applications.
Improved utilisation generated better returns at Uden in Holland, although short lead times and volatile demand made utilisation a challenge in the UK.
Balance Sheet Net assets at the year end were 215 million with net borrowings of 23 million.
As already announced, we disposed of our German subsidiary, Johler Druck, during the year for a cash consideration of 2.2 million.
Investment Capital expenditure during the year amounted in total to 36 million, more than twice last years level.
We have continued to invest in systems and equipment across the Group to reduce our costs of production and 4 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 enhance the exibility of the service we are able to offer our customers.
The largest individual items were the new logistics facility at Redditch, web presses and a high speed stitching line for the magazine market, digital presses mainly for point-of-sale customers and a sheetfed press in Cleveland.
As in previous years, our consolidated financial statements have IFRS been prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UKGAAP.
In accordance with EU regulations, in future we will be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and prepare consolidated financial statements on an IFRS basis.
We will report under IFRS for the first time in our Interim Results for the twenty six weeks ending 27 January 2006 and our Annual Report for 2006 will be the first to be prepared under IFRS.
The 2006 Interim Results and Annual Report will include comparative IFRS information for the corresponding periods in 2005.
An announcement will be made in January 2006 setting out the restatement of the 2005 results and providing an explanation of the effects of the change to IFRS on our results.
The most significant impact is expected to be in relation to the treatment of the dened benets pension scheme which was closed to new members in April 2002 and an indication of the effect in relation to 2005 is set out in note 4 b of the accompanying financial statements.
The success of our business depends mainly on the people who Staff work throughout the Group and I should like to thank all of them on behalf of the Board and the shareholders for the contribution which they have made towards achieving a creditable result in very challenging conditions.
On 30 September 2005 we announced that the Group will in future Board be managed as three operating segments, namely Media Products, Commercial Products and USA and that segmental sales and operating profit will be reported in this way.
Changes in Board responsibilities to reect the new segmental structure were introduced at the same time: Brian Edwards remains as Group Managing Director with overall responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group, but with particular responsibility for Commercial Products, serving the direct response, commercial, and point-of-sale markets in the UK and financial markets worldwide: Wayne Angstrom continues to have responsibility for the Groups US businesses, serving commercial, point-of-sale and magazine markets: and Patrick Martell has become Managing Director Media Products, responsible for the book, magazine and multimedia markets mainly in the UK.
As part of the new structure the Chairmans role has become part-time.
5 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 C HAIRMAN S S TATEMENT continued Outlook Most of our markets continue to experience over-capacity and ercely competitive pricing.
We have invested further in the latest, most exible and productive web and sheetfed presses and stitching and binding lines in order to lower our costs of production and further enhance service.
Upward pressure on costs, particularly indirect costs of employment and utilities, continues.
We have renewed medium or long-term contracts with most of our larger book publishing customers and are poised to make further progress in growing market share through the provision of more post-production added-value services.
The underlying market is stable.
In the magazine market in the UK we are further sharpening our focus on short-run specialist titles and offering additional logistics and mailing services.
A new freehold facility has been established at our Roche factory for this purpose.
The investment in a new high-speed perfect binding line at our factory in Plymouth is particularly suited to shorter-run, time-sensitive work.
The market for longer-run, more commoditised work continues to offer poor returns and we are keeping our overall mix of work under constant review.
There is no indication of any sustained pick-up in demand for corporate financial documentation either in the UK or the USA.
The market for annual reports remains competitive, although pagination is growing as a result of increased regulatory and disclosure requirements.
As always it is difficult to predict levels of demand for music, multimedia and software related packaging.
However demand for special packaging is increasing as video and audio publishers seek to exploit their back catalogues.
Demand for point-of-sale products and services is steady.
We have won business from a number of new customers.
In particular, at the start of the new financial year we were awarded a long-term contract to supply all Marks & Spencers point-of-sale requirements.
At the same time we acquired their own print facility at Burnley, where some of this work will be produced.
We have established a new, purpose-built freehold logistics facility at Redditch in order to accommodate the new business as well as to enable us to offer a broader range of fullment services to customers across all our markets.
Commercial and direct response markets remain extremely competitive, especially for longer-run and more commodity products.
We are increasing our focus on customers with requirements for more specialist products and services.
6 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 C HAIRMAN S S TATEMENT continued US markets for magazine and commercial products face similar challenges.
Here too we are keeping our work mix under continuous review and are concentrating further on more specialist areas and on providing added-value services.
Recent hurricanes have caused short-term disruption to our businesses in Florida, but without damage to property.
In our principal markets our competitive position is as strong as ever.
In recent years we have undertaken significant rationalisation and consolidation of the Groups activities.
We continue to invest in the best available technology to reduce our costs of production and enhance our service offering: capital expenditure this year is expected to be well in excess of last years level.
In the short term question marks remain over consumer confidence and rising utility costs are a particular concern.
However, notwithstanding the continuing challenge posed by current market conditions, we believe that our commitment to service and quality, and increasing focus on the provision of added-value services in addition to the supply of printed products, will deliver progress for shareholders.
