Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that Stagecoach Group has had a strong year, We have strengthened our senior management team with the delivering on our strategy for organic growth in our bus and rail appointment of Ian Dobbs as Chief Executive of the Groups Rail Division.
operations in the UK and overseas.
The Group has achieved excellent Ian has 28 years experience in the rail industry in the UK and overseas.
A financial and operational performance, despite the substantial fuel and former Divisional Director of British Rail, he was more recently Chief other cost pressures.
Executive Officer of the Victoria Public Transport Corporation in Australia, where he was responsible for the rail, tram and bus services.
He will join Stagecoach is continuing to lead the way in developing new ideas, the Group in July 2005. innovative products and highly effective marketing to attract new passengers to public transport.
By following this approach, combined with Ian has a strong track record and we are confident he will drive forward strong operational management and cost-control, we have driven up both Stagecoachs reputation as a first-class rail operator delivering high-quality passenger volumes and revenues across our business.
services to passengers, value-for-money to taxpayers and an appropriate return to shareholders.
He will have operational responsibility for all of Our business is underpinned by a commitment to excellent customer the Groups rail interests, and will initially report to Graham Eccles, service and a strong focus on the safety and security of our passengers Stagecoach Group Executive Director Rail, who has indicated that he and our people.
We continue to have a proactive culture across the Group intends to retire and step down from the Board in April 2006. that puts safety at the top of our agenda.
We have made a promising start to the new financial year and despite The successes we have achieved are flowing through strongly to our some industrial action in New Zealand in the early part of May, overall shareholders, who benefited from the 241.3m return of capital trading is in line with our expectations.
programme during the year and also from increased dividends.
I am pleased that the hard work of our employees has been rewarded Total turnover for the year ended 30 April 2005 was 1,794.7m 2004: with another year of achievement across the Group.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional significant opportunities for organic growth and the expansion of our rail items was 156.7m 2004: 147.5m.
Earnings per share before goodwill portfolio, both of which can deliver increased value to our shareholders.
amortisation and exceptional items were up 34.3% at 9.0p 2004: 6.7p.
Excluding the 265.0m of cash outflows relating to dividends and capital paid to shareholders, net debt fell by 118.0m as the Group continues to generate significant cash from its operations.
Given the Directors confidence in the future prospects of the Group, as well as its financial strength, we are proposing a final dividend of 2.3p per share 2004: 2.0p, giving a total dividend for the year of 3.3p 2004: 2.9p.
This is an increase of 13.8% and based on continued strong cash flows and profits we will look to continue with a policy of growing the dividends progressively.
The proposed final dividend is payable to Robert Speirs shareholders on the register at 2 September 2005 and will be paid on Chairman 5 October 2005. page 2 Stagecoach Group plc
