Lord Steinberg Chairmans Statement In a challenging year, the Group reports a satisfactory performance.
The Gaming Division has recovered well from represents tremendous value for shareholders, of them for their contribution and hard work the disappointing results of the previous year I am sad to see the original business that during the year.
I should also acknowledge the while the Betting Division experienced a well I founded 50 years ago leave the Group.
professional manner in which our colleagues documented run of poor sporting results, Building a business from scratch enabled in the Retail Betting Operation have managed especially in the second half of the year.
me to meet some wonderful employees who the difficult period of transition from Stanley became friends, and it is to them I particularly to their new group.
Results and Dividend extend my thanks.
I wish them all well within I can report that the Group has achieved a their new group.
Following the disposal of the Groups Retail profit before tax and goodwill amortisation Betting Operation we have announced that and impairment of 40.1m 2004: 41.8m Following this disposal we announced on John Whittaker, Managing Director of the on turnover of 2,077m 2004: 1,659m.
20 June 2005 that we intend to return Betting Division, has resigned as a Director of Earnings per share rose 29% to 20.1p approximately 325m of surplus funds to Stanley Leisure plc.
On behalf of the Board I 2004: 15.6p, while earnings per share shareholders, equivalent to 250p per share.
should like to thank him for his tremendous before goodwill amortisation and impairment After returning this surplus, the Group will be dedication and contribution over 27 years to increased slightly to 20.8p 2004: 20.6p.
appropriately nanced to develop and further the successful growth of the betting business.
I should remind shareholders that in 2004 expand our casino portfolio and pursue the I am delighted that John has agreed to stay we accounted for an exceptional charge of exciting opportunities presented by the new with the Group and continue to be responsible 4.6m for impairment of goodwill in relation regulatory environment.
for the International betting business.
to the internet gaming business.
Deregulation Outlook The Board is pleased to propose a final After much debate and many U turns by With the disposal of our Retail Betting dividend of 7.5p, up 11% on the previous year.
the Government, the Gambling Act nally Operation, Stanley Leisure is now primarily a The total dividend for the year, the last full received Royal Assent in April 2005.
Although gaming operator and will focus on maximising year in which we owned our domestic Retail the anticipated level of deregulation has opportunities from the Gambling Act 2005 Betting Operation, is 10.5p, representing an been scaled back, the new Act does have and consolidating its position as the leading increase of 11% on the total dividend of 9.5p many improvements over the previous UK gaming casino operator.
The final dividend will be paid on legislation.
As you will see elsewhere in this looks forward to delivering further growth 14 September 2005 to shareholders on the Report we are working hard to ensure that for shareholders.
register on 19 August 2005. the Group maximises the benets of the new legislation, which should result in improving Sale of Retail Betting Operation profitability in the years ahead.
LORD STEINBERG It is of course with mixed feelings that I Non-Executive Chairman report that since the year end the sale of the Management and Employees 18 July 2005 Groups domestic Retail Betting Operation As I have noted many times before, it is our for 504m has taken place.
I have conicting colleagues as a whole who ultimately have feelings because although the sale price achieved these results.
I should like to thank all 01 Stanley Leisure plc 2005 Annual Report
