Good progress has been made in the long term development of the group.
Forward momentum in our water-based Polymer activities was sustained in the second Chairmans six months despite there being no respite from rising costs of petrochemical based raw materials.
Strong volume growth, better product mix and increased selling prices Statement all contributed to an improvement in unit margins, which more than offset the rise in input costs.
The future of our Pharmaceutical activities is in large part linked to widening the portfolio of the generic products that we manufacture.
Enhanced levels of drug master file registration in the USA and Europe were maintained and the infrastructure to support the approval programme was strengthened.
Profit in Performance chemicals moved forward by 8% as we benefit from the reshaping of the division into a more focussed business.
Underlying profit before taxation for the group advanced by 7% to 34.5 million.
With a lower tax rate prevailing in the period and a reduced level of profit attributable to minority interests, the associated earnings per share rose 20% to 16.7 pence.
Movements in exchange rates have been a negative feature in recent years: the weakening US Dollar has been detrimental to the value of transactions, whilst our high Euro exposure has affected the translation of overseas results.
The quantum of the exchange rate risk remains the same, but with relative stability in the two major currencies the impact in the year was broadly neutral.
The funding position of pensions continues to attract much publicity.
The Yule Catto UK scheme has a high proportion of its assets allocated to equities and hence, with world stockmarkets performing well, asset value has enjoyed double-digit growth for the third consecutive year.
Conversely, a sharp reduction in bond yields towards the year end resulted in the calculation of liabilities, as measured by IAS19, eroding much of the benefit, but overall the deficit has reduced by 7.7 million.
A full triennial valuation will be conducted in 2006 and a new schedule of contributions to address any shortfall will be developed in conjunction with the scheme Trustees and accommodating the requirements of the Pensions Regulator.
The large and developing market in China offers many exciting business opportunities, both as a new outlet for our products and as a source of low cost raw materials for use in our manufacturing processes.
In pursuit of this, we have recently established a representative office in Guangzhou.
A review of underperforming and non-core activities resulted in the sale or withdrawal from a number of businesses during the year.
This process has delivered gross proceeds of 22 million to date and additional income will be generated following the sale of land associated with two discontinued operations in the UK.
Primarily driven by the disposal exercise, net underlying borrowings reduced by 22.0 million to 165.6 million at the year end.
As expected, additions to fixed assets were at a lower level as we continue to benefit from a period of reduced capital requirement.
The Board has approved the expansion of the nitrile latex facility in Malaysia and entry into a new market for cytotoxic pharmaceutical products: and therefore a modest increase in expenditure is likely in the current year.
As a result of higher volume and the rising costs of raw materials, we have again seen an absorption of cash into working capital, although not at the rate of the previous year.
In line with the guidance provided in the interim statement, the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 5.3 pence per share which would take the full year 22.0 payment to 9.0 pence, being a reduction of 33 per cent on last year.
Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend will be paid on 4 July to members on the register million reduction at close of business on 2 June.
In the absence of unforeseen circumstances, it is the Boards intention that, from this rebased level, the group will resume a progressive in net underlying dividend policy.
borrowings Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement 04 Alex Walker, our Chief Executive since 1986, will retire in August 2006 after 34 years In difficult with the group.
Alex has been instrumental in transforming Yule Catto into the speciality chemical company it is today, delivering significant shareholder value along circumstances the way.
Following a rigorous search process, Adrian Whitfield joined the group on 1 March 2006 as a Director and Chief Executive Designate.
Adrian has extensive we delivered a international industrial management experience.
I am sure he will make an invaluable contribution in the next stage of the development of the group.
In addition, following solid performance the resignation of Gianni Montezemolo, we welcomed Colin Williams to the Board as an independent non-executive director on 6 December 2005. in 2005 and look In an increasingly competitive environment, the success of the group can only be forward to the realised through the hard work and commitment of all our employees.
On behalf of the Directors and Shareholders, I would again like to thank everyone for their growth created contribution to the results achieved this year.
by our investment Safety, health and environment SHE are of the utmost importance and it is pleasing to report, for the sixth consecutive year, an overall improvement in SHE performance, and restructuring with a 30% reduction in the lost time accident frequency rate and a lower total number of reportable safety and environmental incidents.
We are fully committed to initiatives.
the principles of sustainable development and have adopted guidelines issued by the UK Chemical Industry Association.
In support of this, financial incentives for senior managers have been modified to broaden the categories targeted for improvement to include energy and waste.
Finally, a detailed analysis has been conducted to assess the economic implications of the European Union REACH legislation.
On the basis of current knowledge of the regulatory framework, it appears that any financial exposure should be contained within the existing cost structure.
Outlook The price of crude oil remains high and there are no signs of raw material costs subsiding.
That said, the polymer business delivered good results last year as the level of volatility reduced.
The start of the year has seen strong sales volume and we are cautiously optimistic that as the year develops, performance will maintain its forward progression.
The long term generic and ethical development programme for the active pharmaceutical ingredient business continues to expand and the necessary infrastructure is in place.
We expect to see the benefit of new products during the year which should provide some mitigation against the normal generic pricing curve of the more mature products in our portfolio.
In difficult circumstances we delivered a solid performance in 2005 and look forward to the growth created by our investment and restructuring initiatives, being aided by more helpful market conditions.
Anthony Richmond-Watson 16 March 2006 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement 05
