Chairmans statement Results Tate & Lyle reports a strong financial performance Tate & Lyle has had a good year marked in the year to 31 March 2005.
The growth in value by our re-entry into the FTSE100 index after a seven year absence.
Both sales and added products, especially the strong performance of profit before tax and exceptional items increased, driven mainly by the successful SPLENDA Sucralose, and the improvement in the quality realignment of our SPLENDA Sucralose of our earnings together with our increased strategic focus activities with McNeil Nutritionals effective from April 2004. enable us to view the future with confidence.
Total sales increased to 3,342 million 2004 3,167 million and profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation was 255 million, a 12% improvement on the prior year 2004 227 million, after a negative exchange impact of 12 million.
Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items and amortisation for the year to 31 March 2005 were up 12% at 38.0p 2004 33.9p, and after exceptional items and amortisation were 29.4p 2004 32.6p.
The return on net operating assets improved, to 16.7%, exceeding the Groups initial target of 15%.
The net charge for exceptional items of 45 million includes the charge previously reported of 55 million in respect of the settlement of the high fructose corn syrup class action suit in the US.
Profit before tax after exceptional items and amortisation was 197 million 2004 224 million.
After investment and capital expenditure including significant expenditure on sucralose, net debt increased by 63 million to 451 million.
Free cash flow was 103 million 2004 62 million and interest cover improved further to 11.3 times 2004 9.3 times.
Dividend In line with its progressive dividend policy, the Board proposes an increase of 0.6p 3.2% in the total dividend for the year to 19.4p.
This is covered 2.0 times by earnings before exceptional items and amortisation.
The proposed final dividend of 13.7p will be due and payable on 3 August 2005 to all shareholders on the register at 8 July 2005.
Directors The composition of the Board continues to evolve with four non-executive directors retiring during the year.
Keith Hopkins and Mary Jo Jacobi retired on 29 July 2004 following nine and five years service respectively.
Larry Pillard retired on 31 December 2004 after eleven years service, nine of which he served as an executive director and two as a nonexecutive director.
David Fish stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2004 due to pressure of other commitments.
04 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 The Board thanks each of them for their commitment to match the amount raised changed what we take to market and how contribution to the development of the by employees at least one-to-one.
The we go to market, and thirdly through the Company.
generosity of our employees has resulted successful acquisition and integration of Allen Yurko will be retiring as a nonin a final combined donation of 200,000, sucralose manufacturing and ingredient sales executive director at the forthcoming Annual which has been disbursed equally across the as part of the realignment of the SPLENDA General Meeting on 28 July 2005 having four affected countries of India, Sri Lanka, Sucralose business in April 2004. served on the Board for nine years.
Board thanks him for his work as Chairman A particularly good example of our longOutlook of the Remuneration Committee since 2001 term partnership with stakeholders is that Tate & Lyle reports a strong financial and for his wise counsel and commitment to with suppliers of raw sugar for our European performance in the year to 31 March 2005 the Company.
Tate & Lyle led by growth in SPLENDA Sucralose and Kai Nargolwala, a Group Executive plays a key role as the conduit for the EUs other value added ingredients.
Strong cash Director of Standard Chartered PLC, was policy of providing advantageous prices to generation further improved our financial appointed as a non-executive director from the sugar industries in African, Caribbean position and supports our investment in 1 December 2004.
His considerable financial and Pacific ACP countries as well as from future growth.
and commercial experience, and particularly suppliers in Least Developed and other In the year to 31 March 2006 we expect his knowledge of the Asia Pacific region, will Developing Countries, giving them a bridge further progress although our results will be of great benefit to the Board.
for 1.25 million tonnes of sugar each year reflect increased start-up costs relating to Dr. Barry Zoumas was appointed as a into European markets.
This is considered our new value added facilities.
non-executive director from 1 May 2005. in more detail in the Corporate Social The reform of the EU sugar regime He is currently the Alan R. Warehime Responsibility section on page 33. will affect the future performance of our Professor of Agribusiness and Professor European Sugar and Food & Industrial of Food Science and Nutrition at The Corporate Governance Ingredients businesses and will be an Pennsylvania State University, USA, having During the year the Board carried out a important focus for the management worked for most of his career for the review of its effectiveness and that of its team in the current year.
The European Hershey Foods Corporation.
His background Committees led by myself.
The 2005 Commission has indicated that formal as both a scientist and businessman adds evaluation was the second stage of a proposals for reform will be tabled on diversity and strength to the Board.
two-year process agreed by the Board in 22 June 2005.
It is our intention to publish 2004.
The conclusions of both the 2004 and our quantification of the range of potential Corporate Social Responsibility 2005 evaluations were that the Board and impacts upon our businesses after the We remain committed to a policy of its Committees were operating effectively.
EU Commission proposals are published.
continuous improvement in applying sound Recommendations such as the introduction Across the business we have a number of safety, environmental and social standards of a full day strategy review and some expansion projects under way to stimulate in our dealings with all of our stakeholders.
changes to the balance of strategic and longer term growth in our value added This commitment is upheld by striving for operational information provided to the segment.
We have announced capital continuous progress in achieving the highest Board have been implemented.
projects to more than triple the sucralose standards of safety, considering the With effect from 1 April 2005, the Group production capacity acquired under the environmental impact of every aspect of will prepare its accounts using International realignment of the SPLENDA Sucralose what we do, and treating our employees, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
activities and our new joint venture plant suppliers and the communities in which we In order to clearly communicate the with DuPont to produce Bio-3G from work as long-term partners.
anticipated impacts of transition from UK renewable resources should begin to come Pages 28 to 37 of this Annual Report set generally accepted accounting principles, on stream in our financial year ending out our policies and performance.
It is we are publishing, as an appendix to this 31 March 2007.
All of these projects are pleasing to report further improvement in the Annual Report pages 103 to 123, unaudited progressing satisfactorily.
Group Safety Index, this year by 19.9%, restatements of the Groups 2005 primary The growth in value added products, to another record low.
The Group continues statements under IFRS.
especially the strong performance of to be a constituent of the FTSE4Good, the SPLENDA Sucralose, and the improvement UK corporate social responsibility index.
Strategy in the quality of our earnings together with In March 2005, the Group was awarded a We have made good strategic progress our increased strategic focus enable us to Food and Drink Federation Community and this is ongoing.
We have united our view the future with confidence.
Partnership Award in the Education Category businesses under the Tate & Lyle name and large company for the Ideas Factory, an have maintained our focus as a high quality outstanding educational project for children.
low cost producer, winning customer and Ideas Factory, developed in conjunction with industry awards.
Tate Britain, is an innovative literacy project We have increased the focus on the value for primary school children that develops added component of our business which language, reading and writing skills by using has grown both in absolute profit terms and works of art as sources of inspiration.
as a proportion of the Group total.
This has Tate & Lyle was also one of the first been achieved firstly through a good companies to pledge support to help victims performance from our global food Sir David Lees of the Asian tsunami disaster.
Our pledge ingredients sales force, secondly through Chairman was a corporate donation of 75,000 and a innovation in marketing where we have 1 June 2005 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 05
