Chairmans Statement 2005 has shown the benets of our strategy of operating in different geographical and product markets and allocating capital where we see the best opportunities.
The UK market has continued to be subdued in 2005, although the stability of prices assisted by a quarter point interest rate cut in August contributed to improved reservation rates in the second half.
Our housing business in North America continued to benefit from strong markets, resulting in another year of significant organic growth.
We also achieved excellent results in Spain.
thanks for his exceptional contribution to Maintaining growth in dividends through the cycle the Group over his 39 year career with us.
In line with our intention at the half year to increase full-year dividends by 20 per Our people The performance that we have achieved cent, the Board recommends an increase in the final dividend for 2005 to this year is a reection of the skill and enthusiasm of our team members.
This, together with the interim dividend of 4.5 would like to take this opportunity to thank all of my colleagues throughout the Group pence paid on 1 November 2005, makes a total dividend for the year of 13.4 pence, for their hard work over the year.
Subject to conrmation at the Annual General As a business we are also dependent on our customers, trading partners, Meeting on 3 May 2006, the dividend will be paid on 3 July 2006 to shareholders shareholders and our other stakeholders.
I would like to take this opportunity to Norman Askew, Chairman on the register at close of business on 2 June 2006. offer our thanks for all the support they give us.
This dividend will be paid as a Shareholder information conventional cash dividend but In 2005 we: shareholders are once again being offered Full details of the facilities available to Achieved a robust performance, the opportunity to reinvest some or all shareholders can be found on page 94 despite challenging conditions in of their dividend under the Dividend and on the companys website, the UK Re-Investment Plan, details of which www.
com Continued to grow our housing are contained in a separate circular to operations in North America shareholders.
Increased our investment in our housing operations in Spain Board Changes Substantially exited our property As previously announced, Denis Mac Norman Askew operations Daid retired from the company and the Chairman Reduced gearing to 23.7% Board on 30 June 2005.
On behalf of the 27 February 2006 Increased land in all markets Board, I would like to extend our sincere 2 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 Mortimer Hill, Berkshire Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 3 Our presence in different markets provides us with alternative growth channels.
Above: Bryant at Licheld 4 4 T Ta aylor ylor W Woodro oodrow R w Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 2005 05
