Chairmans statement The financial year that ended on 31 March saw the Company make further progress.
1 Sales grew at constant currency by 4% in Since the year end, BT has announced the Partnerships the year, to 1,270 million with sales increases names of its preferred suppliers for its 21st We have forged a number of partnerships from nine out of ten of our largest customers.
We were obviously during the year.
These have helped us to We continued our focus on gross margin and extremely disappointed not to be chosen.
leverage our own technology by enabling us operating expenses: progress in these areas Our equipment performed well in the trials that to offer complete solutions to our customers, helped us to deliver a profit attributable to BT ran in advance of making its decisions.
designed to address their business needs.
BT has told us that we were not selected In January we announced our intention to because our prices were higher than those These results were achieved in a tough market sign a mutual distribution agreement with offered by other suppliers.
This is a further environment, characterised by strong pricing Huawei, the largest of the new Chinese demonstration of the competitiveness of the pressure and fierce competition for market telecommunications equipment suppliers.
markets in which we operate and the need for share.
In these circumstances we were Under the terms of the agreement, which was us to continue to strive for the lowest costs pleased to win significant new business with signed in May, we will sell certain of Huaweis achievable.
BT remains a significant customer our next-generation products and services.
data communications products to our for Marconi and will continue to be so in These wins included new contracts with customers, whilst they will include our radio the future.
T-Com in Germany and Telefnica in Spain.
products as part of the solutions they are We were selected as sole suppliers of selling to wireless operators around the world.
Strategic options next-generation network transport equipment The agreement will broaden the product We announced on 3 May that we would to Telstra in Australia.
In the UK, we were portfolio we offer our customers whilst giving continue to pursue all strategic options chosen by Bulldog Communications, which is our radio products a wider geographic reach with the objective of maximising shareholder rolling out a fast broadband service, to supply as Huawei takes them into the markets where value.
Whilst at the time of writing there is no it with our Access equipment.
Our Services it is strong.
We continue to explore with further update that we are in a position to business was successful, winning a managed Huawei, ways in which our two companies communicate to shareholders, we did services contract from Energis and a can work more closely together, including announce on 8 August that these options multi-year services contract from Tube Lines the possibility that we will jointly develop include, amongst a range of alternatives, for portions of London Undergrounds new products.
discussions with third parties about potential communications infrastructure.
These discussions are at a preliminary stage and there can be no assurance that an offer will ultimately take place.
1 from Continuing Operations see page 8.
2 People Changes to the Board and Looking forward, we intend to have executive One of Marconis great strengths is the quality Executive Committee reward packages that are in line with normal of its people.
During the year we ran a There has only been one change to the practice for companies of our size and customer survey, which once again confirmed composition of the Board over the last year.
international spread, taking into account our that our customers rate the commitment Mike Donovan, who had held the position of market sector.
With this in mind we will be shown by our employees as a reason for their Chief Operating Officer from September 2001, asking shareholders at this years Annual choice of Marconi as a supplier.
We have left the Company at the end of December General Meeting to approve the reintroduction once again run an Achievement Award 2004.
Mike played a very significant role in the of cash bonuses for senior executives.
programme to recognise those employees operational restructuring of the Group over a who have made an outstanding contribution three-year period.
Unfortunately as the Group In conclusion to either customer service, technological developed and the last of its non-core Marconi continues to respond to the excellence or teamwork.
In the last year we businesses were disposed of, it was not challenges that it faces.
We have proved over continued to see improvements across a possible to find an appropriate role for him.
the last four years that we are capable of rising broad range of people initiatives as measured to those challenges and that we will take the Towards the end of 2004, we also reviewed through our employee survey, Your Opinion.
decisions necessary to enable us to continue the make up of the Executive Committee When handling organisational change we have to progress.
Despite continuous and of the Board.
In order to ensure that the done so with the minimum of disruption and significant changes in our industrys dynamics, executives who are responsible for our through fair and equitable processes with our the business has been stabilised giving us the customer relationships around the world were employees.
We continue to offer employees a opportunity to consider the best future from able to contribute to the strategy and planning range of benefits to ensure we remain an this stronger base.
We remain committed to of the Group, we appointed the managing attractive employer including a holiday trading maximising shareholder value and positioning directors of our business units to the scheme, improved maternity and paternity the business for a successful long-term future.
Executive Committee with effect from leave terms as well as launching the 1 January 2005.
A full list of the Executive The Board is confident that the business has Sharesave Plan approved by shareholders Committee members can be found on page an excellent spread of customers, a at last years annual general meeting.
committed workforce that will continue to work hard to achieve the best results, and an Shareholder communications Senior executive remuneration excellent range of next-generation products Communication with shareholders through our In the last year there have been no changes to that will help customers meet their business financial reporting, as well as through quarterly the arrangements that were put in place at the needs.
investor meetings, continues to be a priority.
time of the financial restructuring of the Group With the repayment of the last of our in 2003.
Under the terms of the equity restructuring debt during the year, we are no incentive plan put in place in 2003 the longer required to file in the US as a domestic participants were not able to sell the shares issuer.
Nevertheless, we continue to provide a they could earn until certain time milestones US GAAP reconciliation of our accounts each had passed.
During the year under review the quarter.
We strive for best practice disclosure first three of these time milestones were in our communications and have accelerated passed, the performance targets having our reporting timelines to deliver our earnings already been satisfied in the previous year.
announcements within 35 days of the end of John Devaney As anticipated executives took the opportunity each quarter.
We moved to International Chairman to take some of their rewards: they exercised Financial Reporting Standards with the quarter options and sold some or all of the shares ending on 30 June 2005.
We held a seminar they received.
The executive directors agreed for investors and analysts to communicate the that they would retain 20% of each of the expected impacts of this change earlier tranches of options that they could exercise this year.
in order to build a long-term stake in the Company.
