4 REVIEW 2005 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT During 2005, management dealt efficiently with challenging conditions and produced good results in their performance.
Our people are committed and enthusiastic.
Although our operations are geographically diverse and many functions are decentralised, we take great pride in teamwork and sharing best practice across businesses and regions.
Part of Tomkins strength is its global reach, and the product and market diversity of its businesses.
We manufacture a variety of products, from synchronous belts for engines to whirlpool baths and the key to our progress is that these diverse businesses are bound together by a common factor manufacturing excellence.
Our geographic spread across 21 countries together with the range of end-markets we serve make us not dependent on specic industries or regions.
RESULTS In 2005, revenue was up by 7.0 per cent at 3,182.4 million 2004: 2,974.1 million and profit from operations before restructuring initiatives rose by 1.4 per cent to 308.5 million 2004: 304.3 million.
profit from operations at 296.7 million 2004: 286.3 million rose by 3.6 per cent.
Fully diluted earnings per share were 23.79 pence 2004: 22.81 pence.
Cash ow for the year was positive after interest, tax and dividends, despite a significant contribution to the Gates pension fund.
DIVIDEND The Board has recommended a final dividend of 8.16 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 5.07 pence per ordinary share paid on 14 November 2005, brings the total dividend for the year to 13.23 pence per ordinary share, DAVID NEWLANDS We continued to make good progress in what was an increase of 5.0 per cent.
The final dividend, CHAIRMAN a challenging year for Tomkins.
if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will We experienced weaker automotive production be paid on 31 May 2006 to shareholders on the volumes in North America and Europe, the delay in register at the close of business on 21 April 2006. the implementation of the Transportation Recall, We continue to extol the importance of cash ow Enhancement, Accountability and Documentation generation to our business managers, as this supports TREAD Act, the continuing softness of the our progressive dividend policy.
non-residential construction market for most of The Board has decided to offer again the Dividend the year and the effect of two severe hurricanes in Reinvestment Plan in respect of this final dividend.
Despite these difficult CORPORATE GOVERNANCE end-markets, the Group achieved good growth and operating profit margins.
This reects the ongoing We aim for the highest standards of governance and commitment of our executive management team transparency throughout the businesses and in all our market operations.
Although the Operating to nd pragmatic solutions to improve performance.
and Financial Review Reporting Statement 1 is not OUR CULTURE AND OUR COMPANY mandatory, we used this as a guide, since it will help The introduction of our annual bonus incentive plan our shareholders to better assess our strategy and goals.
in 2003 has been a great motivator for our managers Over the course of 2005, we made further progress and has contributed to a more entrepreneurial focus in preparing for compliance with Section 404 of the TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 REVIEW 2005 5 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we will implement With the support not only of our employees but also fully in the current financial year.
our customers, suppliers and business partners, we can As shareholders will be aware, Tomkins reports continue on our path of sustained profitable growth.
to the markets on a quarterly basis.
Our quarterly I would also like to thank our investors for their press releases are available on our website continuing support of Tomkins.
co. uk and hard copies can be VALUE CREATION requested from ir@tomkins.
As we are Our strategy remains focused on creating shareholder committed to keeping our corporate costs low, value through organic growth, geographic expansion we have decided in future, in common with a and strategic acquisitions.
We apply disciplined criteria number of large public companies, to place an to all potential acquisitions and capital investments advertisement in the national press and no longer to ensure that they are expected to enhance value.
A chart seen below shows the Total Shareholder THE BOARD Return in the Companys shares for each of the After five years with Tomkins, we are sad to be losing past five years ended 31 December, measured Ken Minton and Norman Broadhurst, who will be against the performance of the FTSE Engineering retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the and Machinery Index.
Companys Annual General Meeting on 22 May 2006.
OUTLOOK Following the substantial reduction in the Gates During 2005, management dealt efficiently with familys interests in the Company, Marshall Wallach challenging conditions and produced good results.
has decided to step down from the Board with effect Overall, the outlook for our markets in 2006 from 1 May 2006.
On behalf of the Board and remains positive.
By adhering to our strategy of everyone who had the pleasure of working with them, achieving organic growth, geographic expansion I would like to thank all three for their outstanding into higher growth markets and the acquisition contribution to the Board and our Company and of value enhancing businesses, our strong wish them well for the future.
management team should again deliver value I am pleased to welcome to the Board Richard for Tomkins shareholders in 2006.
Gillingwater, Head of the UK Governments Shareholder Executive, Struan Robertson, formerly Chief Executive at Wates Group, and David Richardson, formerly Group Finance Director at Whitbread PLC, who have joined the Tomkins Board as non-executive Directors.
They bring to Tomkins broad and invaluable experience that will assist the Board in its work and we DAVID NEWLANDS CHAIRMAN are looking forward to working with them.
EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS AND INVESTORS On behalf of the Board, I should like to thank all of our employees for their commitment during the past year.
