CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 244 stores - one focus The key to our continued success is our commitment to the highest levels of customer service and both the range and quality of products that we offer.
Our business continues to be highly cash generative and at the year end we had net cash balances of 21.8 million.
Board Changes As announced at the Annual General Meeting on 11 January 2005, Stuart Williams, my co-founder of Topps, stepped down as Barry Bester Co-Chairman and Board Director on 31 March 2005.
I am delighted Chairman however that Stuart has taken on the newly created non Board advisory role of President and continues to offer his expertise and guidance to the business.
I am pleased to report another strong performance by the Group with record profits and increased UK market share.
We have consolidated Dividend our position as the leading UK ceramic tile and wood flooring The Board continues to be committed to a progressive dividend policy specialist, backed by what is now a truly national brand.
The new and is recommending a final dividend of 6.00 pence per share.
Topps Distribution and Marketing Centre is fully integrated with the Together with the interim dividend of 3.50p per share the total capacity to support our UK store target of a minimum of 350 stores.
dividend for the period will be 9.50 pence per share, an increase of The period has seen a particularly weak UK consumer environment, 18.8%.
The dividend will be paid on 31 January 2006 to all shareholders however I am pleased to report the resilience of our business model on the register as at 13 January 2006. has enabled us to continue to deliver record results and to outperform the market.
People Our staff are fundamental to the success of the business and I would Since flotation in 1997 total shareholder return has grown by over like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees for their 2,000% and we have consistently been a top performing company in inspiring contributions and continued commitment during the period.
We have created another 174 jobs as a direct result of our expansion programme.
Financial Results Group turnover has increase by 10.0% over the period to 173.3 Outlook million, with profit before tax increasing by 16.1% to 39.2 million.
Although the current UK trading environment continues to be volatile, Gross margins have improved to 61.3% compared to 60.5% in 2004.
I remain confident that the strength of our business model and the 2004 was an exceptional year in respect of trading and if you look at expertise of the strong management team will enable us to continue the trend over the last two years like-for-like sales have improved to grow the business and ensure the delivery of sustainable growth for 24.9% shareholders.
Set against extremely strong comparatives last year and the tough UK Barry Bester trading, growth in like-for-like sales for the period was 3.4%, with Chairman overall sales growth of 10.0%.
TOPPS TILES PLC 03 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Customer Store service locations Our success is built on four key cornerstones: Store Stock availability layout TOPPS TILES PLC 04 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
