4 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations operating profit 1.7% eps 6.7% dividend 8.4% On a like-for-like basis, which is before acquisitions, non-recurring items, IAS 39 and for 2004 excludes the additional weeks trading.
See reconciliation between statutory and like-for-like results on page 102.
Chairmans statement Trinity Mirror delivered a positive performance in 2005.
Operating profit increased by 1.7% to 250.2 million and profit before tax improved by 5.9% to 220.9 million.
Although on a like-for-like basis revenue declined by 1.3%, we again improved Group operating margin, from 21.8% to 22.5%.
Seen in the context of our marketplace, these are good results.
The year started with an encouraging advertising market but, as the economy slowed, reducing consumer confidence, 2005 became increasingly challenging, particularly for our industry.
The weakening economy impacted most advertising categories, with especially difficult conditions for display and recruitment advertising.
Further volatility was created by the General Election and the consequential impact on public sector advertising.
Against this background, Trinity Mirror continues to reap the benefit of our Stabilise Revitalise Grow strategy.
The market conditions resulted in management taking immediate and decisive action from the first quarter to mitigate the effects of the economic downturn and to manage the business on the assumption that trading would not improve and might indeed worsen.
That action proved timely and our full-year results include the benefit of exceeding our 35 million cost savings target by 5 million.
Further net cost savings of at least 15 million have been targeted for 2006.
At the same time, we actively pursued our digital strategy.
We acquired four complementary on-line advertising businesses and a small traditional recruitment consultancy business for 92.7 million, including deferred consideration of 5.5 million.
Despite this cash outflow, and the return of 52.7 million to shareholders under our share buy-back programme, the strong cash flows from our businesses ensured that our net debt for the year rose by merely 37.6 million to 492.5 million.
The pressure on earnings continues as there is as yet no sign of improvement in our traditional advertising markets.
But the Board remains confident with the strong cash flow characteristics of our businesses and in the light of a good performance in 2005 proposes to increase the final dividend by 8.4% to 15.5p per share.
This means that our dividend for the year increased to 21.9p per share from 20.2p last year.
However, in order to maintain financial headroom for further investment in our businesses and any prospective acquisitions identified in pursuit of our strategy, the Board will continue the suspension of our 250 million share buy-back programme.
Our industry remains challenged by changing patterns of behaviour, but we believe we have the right strategy to develop opportunities for growth both through acquisition and organically within our existing businesses.
The Board is confident that the talent and resources of the Group will enable us to deliver a satisfactory outcome for 2006.
The strength of our businesses lies in the talent, the commitment and the creativity of our people at all levels, in management, in operations and in support functions.
They have performed wonderfully well in difficult conditions throughout 2005 and I know that they remain very committed to the success of this Group.
On behalf of the Board, and our shareholders, I would like to thank them for their dedication For further information, and enthusiasm.
go to webcast on Against this background, and on a personal note, it is with mixed feelings that I will step down from the www.
com ir results Board of Trinity Mirror at the Annual General Meeting.
My time with the company has been hugely enjoyable, not least because of the tremendous spirit and talent of the people I have had the pleasure to work with.
However, one of the most important jobs of the Chairman is to encourage succession planning, including for their own position, and I believe that now is the right time to go.
There is a solid foundation for the future management of the business, and the Group is well placed to meet the challenges that lie ahead.
So, while I will be very sad to leave my colleagues, I will do so with immense confidence in their ability to deliver the very best for the Group and its shareholders.
Sir Victor Blank Before acquisitions, non-recurring items, IAS 39 and for 2004 excludes the additional weeks trading.
