Chairmans Statement Tullow delivered excellent results in 2005 and accomplished a number of operational milestones during the year, which will drive the Groups future growth.
In 2005 the Group adopted new accounting policies to comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and our results are prepared in accordance with these.
Record Financial Performance Sales revenue increased 98% to 445.2 million 2004: 225.3 million, reflecting a full year contribution from the Energy Africa assets, nine months contribution from the Schooner and Ketch fields and oil and gas prices significantly higher than in 2004.
Operating profit increased 250% to 198.6 million 2004: 56.8 million and profit before tax increased 282% to 178.6 million 2004: 46.8 million, including a profit of 36.1 million on the disposal of non-core oil assets in the UK and offshore Congo and the sale of equity in the Horne & Wren development.
Basic earnings per share amounted to 17.50 pence, an increase of 198% compared to 5.88 pence in 2004.
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital amounted to 288.1 million, an increase of 106% over 2004, reflecting the quality of the Groups producing asset base and allowing record levels of reinvestment in the business.
Pat Plunkett Chairman Significant Operational Milestones In the UK we completed our first operated offshore development and assumed operatorship of the Schooner and Ketch fields, helping to increase our net production to over 200 mmscfd, 60% of which we operate.
In Africa, our focus was on development and infill programmes, most notably in Gabon, where our proven and probable reserves increased by over 50% during the period.
In Equatorial Guinea the Okume project remains on target for first oil during 2006 and in Congo Brazzaville the MBoundi field continues to perform strongly.
In Asia, during 2006, the Bangora long-term test will commence and the Chachar development will produce first gas.
Organic reserves replacement for the year was 118% and total reserves increased by 53 mmboe to 358 mmboe.
Financial Strength and Progressive Dividend Policy Tullows capital expenditure requirements are comfortably funded from Group resources.
In 2005, operating cash flow before working capital movements amounted to 288.1 million 2004: 139.5 million and profit on non-core disposals was 36.1 million as we rebalanced our asset portfolio.
2 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Basic earnings Dividend per per Share pence Share pence 04 05 04 05 A US$850 million refinancing initiative undertaken during 2005 Much of the Groups success has been based on building has significantly enhanced the Groups financial flexibility over and fostering strong relationships with all of our stakeholders, both the short and long term.
in particular employees, industry partners, local communities and our shareholders.
In 2005, we conducted over 250 In line with the Groups progressive dividend policy, and shareholder meetings and continue to enhance our overall reflecting the cash generated by the business and the capital communications initiatives externally and internally.
investment and acquisition opportunities available, the Board recommends a final dividend of 3 pence per share.
This will At Tullow, we aim to conduct our business to the best bring the total dividend for the year to 4 pence per share industry standards in a manner that is safe, environmentally 2004: 1.75 pence per share and represents an increase of acceptable and sensitive to the needs and concerns of local 129%.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General communities.
I am pleased to report that in the 3.7 million Meeting AGM, the dividend will be paid on 7 June to man hours worked across the Group during 2005 there were shareholders on the register at 12 May.
no significant environmental incidents in Tullows operations and no occupational health related issues.
We achieved a Major Investment in People and Facilities further reduction in the frequency of Lost Time Incidents A major investment in people and facilities has been made and all instances, although regrettable, were of a minor reflecting the material growth of the Group in recent years.
Further information on our performance and progress During 2005, the London team moved to a new office at this year begins on page 20 and, to complement this report, Chiswick.
Over 40 additional staff were recruited and we are publishing our first Group CSR Report.
dedicated teams were put in place for the important Schooner and Ketch fields and the Kudu project.
2005 results reflect exceptional The Group continued to work on Board succession and asset performance, consistent development.
As recently announced, Adrian Nel, Exploration Director will retire at the AGM in May.
Since his appointment organic production growth and to the Board in September 2004, Adrian has made an outstanding contribution to the integration of Tullows strong oil and gas prices exploration activities with Energy Africas assets and enhanced the Groups licence portfolio and exploration strategy.
Paul McDade was appointed to the Board of Tullow in March 2006 Tullow has steadily developed a balanced portfolio of and will be proposed for election at the AGM.
Paul joined the international exploration and production assets.
The Group in 2001 and became Chief Operating Officer following performance of these assets during 2005 and the organic the Energy Africa acquisition in 2004. growth expected in 2006 provide a solid base for further growth.
Projects such as the development of the Kudu field Angus McCoss will join Tullow in April as General Manager in Namibia and the exploration programme in Uganda provide Exploration.
Angus has 19 years exploration experience, possibilities for significant changes in the Groups scale, while working with Shell in Africa, Europe, South America and the our strong cash flow and modest gearing create the flexibility Middle East.
Angus has held a number of senior positions, most to accelerate programmes and take advantage of development recently as Shells general manager of exploration in Nigeria.
and acquisition opportunities as they arise.
The outlook for Tullow is very positive.
We are reaping the benefits of the Increased Commitment to Corporate Social scale achieved through our major acquisition and investment Responsibility CSR programme of recent years and we look forward to the many Tullows Board and Management work within a clear and exciting opportunities for further development and growth.
effective governance framework and a detailed Corporate Governance Report begins on page 29 of this report.
