CHAIRMANS REVIEW 2005 was a year of significant change and progress for UBM It is hard to overstate the importance of the year that UBM has just enjoyed.
It began with the arrival of David Levin as CEO, in succession to Clive Hollick, and it ended with a strong set of financial results that highlight not just the changes made to your company, but also its potential going forward as a strong, tightly managed B2B media group focused on shareholder return.
Geoff Unwin Chairman 28th February 2006 p. 06 First, the headline numbers: Group operating profit limited earnings growth.
We achieved excellent prices increased by 6.8% to 141.9m 2004 132.9m.
Earnings for these disposals, generating significant value for our per share increased by 25.1% to 40.9p 2004 32.7p.
During the first two months of 2006 we The Board is recommending a final dividend of 11.0p 2004 have announced our intention to sell a further portfolio 8.37p bringing the total dividend for the year to 15.0p of, largely publishing, assets which we feel do not fit our 2004 12.0p an increase of 25% which reflects the strong strategic mould.
performance during the year and the directors confidence Not only have we been disposing, we have also been in the outlook for the Group.
acquiring, although to a much lesser extent.
During the It is hard to overstate the importance of the year that UBM year we spent approximately 105m on bolt-on acquisitions, has just enjoyed.
It began with the arrival of David Levin as all of which strengthen our offering sectorial geographic CEO, in succession to Clive Hollick, and it ended with a direction.
strong set of financial results that highlight not just the In June we returned 298m to shareholders by means of changes made to your company, but also its potential going a special dividend, accompanied by a share consolidation.
forward as a strong, tightly managed B2B media Group In addition we spent 250m buying back our shares and focused on shareholder return.
This illustrates our continuing desire to maximise The CEO transition process that the Board put in place for shareholder value by returning funds if we feel that in the CEO handover worked well, as the full-year financial the short term our balance sheet is overly strong.
results demonstrate, with one exception, namely the Notwithstanding this return of cash, our balance sheet incentive arrangements for Clive.
Despite the controversy remains strong: we have the desire and capability, both cash that ensued, a successful handover was achieved and since and management, to make bolt-on acquisitions within the then we have been working with shareholders to ensure range of 150-250m p. a. provided, obviously, they fit our there is a closer meeting of minds on key issues such as strategic direction and our rigorous financial hurdles to executive remuneration.
exceed our weighted average cost of capital.
Furthermore, we have the firepower to step up to something more We had previously announced our intention to conduct a significant, but only if the board believes all our criteria of detailed review of senior executive remuneration policy during strategy, financial discipline and management capability 2005, with particular reference to the balance of fixed and have been met.
During the spring and summer we conducted extensive consultations with our major Regarding the latter, it is pleasing to see the management shareholders in relation to proposed new long-term incentive team being developed, encouraged and strengthened.
arrangements, which were approved by an overwhelming On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our people majority at an EGM on the 26th September 2005. for the dedication they have shown in producing such an excellent performance in this year of significant change.
David Levin has set about his tasks with relentless, thoughtful vigour digging deep into understanding each The Board too, is seeing change.
Chris Powell will be of the individual, often specialised, markets in which we stepping down from the board at the AGM on 4th May operate.
His first task was to secure key players in his team after a ten year tenure.
Chris has given valuable service and and then to build round them once the strategic direction insights to the board and we thank him sincerely and wish had been thought through.
Sandy Leitch took over from Chris as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee as from Our strategy is now clear.
We are a Group focused primarily January 1st 2006. on news distribution and business-to-business activities bringing buyers and sellers together through a combination So, all in all, a huge amount has been achieved for of print, exhibitions and online offerings.
We know that the shareholders: business models of the online world are still being proven Strategic clarity and that those of the print world are being challenged by a Excellent financial performance consistent reduction in revenues.
We have a proven track Successful handover of CEO record of building profitable events businesses.
This provides Excellent value from disposals.
a backdrop requiring that the business be most thoughtful in its investment.
Our direction is to have a higher proportion With our new CEO David Levin and his invigorated team of our earnings coming from events and online, more in taking the business forward with energy and focus, a strong those sectors where we see good growth and more of our balance sheet and with the support of you our earnings coming from the faster growing economies and the shareholders and staff we should be in for another exciting so-called emerging markets.
With that strategic direction in mind, we divested just under 750m of non-core assets during 2005, including our market research activities: NOP: our stake in Channel Five and Auto Exchange Exchange and Mart where we saw Excluding non-recurring items, amortisation of intangible assets, and including operating profit from discontinued operations.
