Chairman's Overview IMPORTANT CONTRACTS WERE SECURED DURING 2005, INCLUDING POSITIONS ON NEW PROGRAMMES, THAT WILL SUPPORT FURTHER GROWTH OF THE GROUP.
1 Ultra made excellent progress in 2005, conversion of operating profit to operating the Chief Executives role to Douglas Caster 3 achieving high growth in revenue and profits.
Over the who has been an Executive Director of Ultra The Groups performance was helped by its last five years the Groups average cash since 1993 and who was appointed Chief 4 battlespace IT, airport IT systems and torpedo conversion has been 114%, reflecting the Operating Officer in 2004.
Peter served as countermeasures activities.
Contributions high quality of Ultras earnings.
Chairman for ten years: on behalf of the were made by the acquisitions completed in Board I thank Peter for his leadership and The acquisitions of Horizon Aerospace and 2004 and the two further acquisitions made wish him a long and happy retirement.
Audiopack Technologies Inc. were completed during 2005, which strengthened Ultras in the year.
Horizon, now fully integrated into Ultras performance in 2005 built on its long position in the civil aerospace and homeland Ultras Flightline Systems business, supplies a track record of continuous progress and the security markets.
Important contracts were broad range of cockpit instruments for Group enters 2006 with a strong balance secured during 2005, including positions on military and civil aircraft.
Audiopack sheet and a record order book.
Ultra has the new programmes, that will support further strengthens Ultras communications capability headroom to make further acquisitions that growth of the Group.
within the military and homeland security will enhance and complement the Groups Sales at 342.4m grew 10% with the Tactical markets and is also part of the Groups range of niche activities, and to invest to & Sonar Systems division showing the strongest Tactical & Sonar Systems division.
Operating profit at 51.1m increased has increased significantly in the year and In Ultras main defence markets worldwide, by 18% over the previous year.
This was provides Ultra with its customary level of budgets continue to rise.
Within these despite the 5.2m negative impact of weaker visibility for 2006 earnings.
It reflects the budgets, expenditure is increasing on hedged exchange rates for US$ sales made by Groups strong positions on existing platforms battlespace IT systems and equipment to Ultras businesses in the UK and Canada.
as well as its success in winning positions on provide better situational awareness, quicker 2 Earnings per share at 50.7p increased by new programmes.
Gaining positions on new command and control and the synchronisation 16% reecting a slightly higher effective tax platforms and programmes has driven the of military effects with much improved rate for 2005 than in the prior year.
The Board growth of Ultra.
It is still true, however, that accuracy.
Funds are being spent on equipping will be recommending a final dividend of no single programme contributes more than modern armed forces to allow the rapid 10.7p per share, making a total for the year 5% of sales in a year, thereby underpinning deployment of light, mobile troops and to of 15.9p, a 15% increase over 2004. the resilience of the Groups performance.
enable the exploitation of superior intelligence Ultra has achieved its track record of success of the military situation through the use of Current market conditions, coupled with through its strategy of achieving organic battlespace IT.
Ultra has pursued a strategy Ultras proven ability to win new business growth by securing niche positions on that has positioned the Group to benefit from and to execute contracts effectively, give the long-term platforms and programmes.
these trends and constantly seeks opportunities Board confidence in the continuing progress Growth has also been aided by acquisitions to offer new products and services to meet of the Group in 2006. that either augmented Ultras existing niches such customer requirements.
Finally I would like to thank all Ultra or added new related niches.
The key to In civil markets, aerospace remains buoyant employees for their hard work and continuing achieving this growth is Ultras investment and healthy demand continues, both for sales commitment, which have made such important strategy.
In 2005 the Group invested a total of original equipment and for aftermarket contributions to the success of the Group.
of 61.2m in acquisitions, research and support equipment.
Development programmes development, capital expenditure and new for new aircraft types provide Ultra with business development.
The investment opportunities to win positions for its contributed directly to the winning of new innovative solutions.
The growth in passenger contracts that drove the year-end order book air travel is strong, increasing demand for new to the record level of 500.7m.
infrastructure including airport IT systems.
5 The companys net debt increased through The planned Board changes that were the year by just 10.2m to 34.3m after discussed in Ultras 2004 Annual Report funding the significant level of investment in Julian Blogh Chairman came into effect at the Groups AGM last 2005.
Cash conversion continued to be April.
I succeeded Peter Macfarlane as strong in 2005 through managements Chairman, upon his retirement, relinquishing continuing focus on cash generation.
The 1 2 before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition and loss on derivative financial instruments.
3 4 cash generated by operations, less net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP share purchases.
cash generated by operations, less net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP 5 share purchases as % of profit from operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
bank overdrafts and loans less cash and cash equivalents.
