Chairmans foreword 2005 was the first year when Patrick and I worked together as splitting the NV shares and consolidating the PLC shares.
Finally, respectively Group Chief Executive and Chairman.
I'five been we intend to allow shareholders the right to nominate candidates delighted with how successfully our combination has developed.
to the Boards, taking into account the need to ensure the unity of management.
Details of all these changes are set out in the Id like to congratulate Patrick and his Executive, as well as all the Notices convening the AGMs.
staff at Unilever, for the progress made during the year.
Although there is still work to do to release the full growth potential of our Board succession powerful portfolio of brands, the business has stabilised its As I mentioned earlier, one of my objectives was to prepare for aggregate market share, a key objective in 2005.
Three Non-Executive Directors will be retiring in 2006 Bertrand Collomb, Oscar Fanjul and Hilmar Kopper.
I To ensure the business has the best structure and governance would like to thank them for their enormous contribution over processes to deliver long-term shareholder value in the top third the years.
This presents us with both a challenge and an of our peer group, I set myself three objectives at the start of last opportunity to re-populate the Boards with new members who year.
These were reviewing Unilevers dual NV PLC structure, can build on our retiring members strengths and help take evaluating its corporate governance procedures and preparing for Unilever forward.
a series of Board departures over the next couple of years.
After a thorough search I am pleased to announce the nomination Dual structure strengths of four new Non-Executive Directors, all with extensive financial The review of Unilevers structure, which I led with the support of and business experience, to take over from the Board members two Non-Executive Directors, as well as a team of leading retiring this year and Claudio Gonzalez who retired at the 2005 independent financial and legal advisers, involved over six months AGMs.
These are Charles Golden, Executive Vice-President and CFO of hard work.
As one independent adviser commented: It was of Eli Lilly and Company, Byron Grote, CFO of BP p. l. c. Jean-Cyril one of the most exhaustive and thorough reviews that I have seen Spinetta, Chairman CEO of Air France-KLM S. A. and Kornelis Kees undertaken.
Storm, former Chairman of the Executive Board of AEGON N. V. Three important principles guided the review.
First, Unilevers We engaged the services of two highly reputable independent commercial operations should be advanced and not prejudiced by search rms to help us in this task and they are also leading the any change.
Second, any change should have tangible benets evaluation of potential candidates to succeed me as Chairman for shareholders.
Lastly, any change should improve transparency in 2007. and exibility.
These principles were designed to ensure that any resulting structure serves the best interests of both the business Governance study and our shareholders.
During 2005, we also commissioned a review of Unilevers governance arrangements to ensure that these were best in class.
Based on these criteria and an in-depth analysis, the Boards unanimously concluded that Unilevers current dual structure, with The review was conducted by independent consultants who some important changes, meets the needs of the business for the concluded that our arrangements stood comparison with our foreseeable future.
While this conclusion might seem somewhat peers.
A full report was made to the Boards in the first quarter of unexpected in an age of constant change, it is totally consistent 2006, and a range of minor changes in terms of the day-to-day with the reviews three guiding principles.
The current structure operation of the Boards will be introduced during the balance has been and still serves as a framework by which we can benefit of the year.
from the best of many cultures and inuences.
A particular pleasure for me this year has been to work with our Moving to a unitary structure would not only be costly and social and environmental partners, for example with UNICEFs disruptive to the business but in our case would not yield the Child Nutrition programme and the World Business Council for material advantages to justify it.
As a result of changes made to Sustainable Development.
Ensuring the vitality of the societies and our Boards and leadership structures at the beginning of 2005, environments in which we operate is essential for Unilever to Unilever already has operational and governance unity, with a sustain its long-term growth.
single Chairman, a single Board with a majority of Non-Executive Directors, a single Group Chief Executive and one Executive team.
It is good to see that the many changes that were initiated over The current structure does not hinder the operation of the the last 12 months have not impeded the progress of Unilever in business, its decision-making ability or organisational efficiency.
All this progress would not be possible without Unilever might also in moving to a unitary structure lose some of the commitment and the hard work of all our 206 000 the scal exibility that it has under its dual structure.
Without their dedication we could not add vitality to the lives of our consumers across the globe.
On behalf of the Changes Boards I would like to convey my thanks to all of them.
This does not mean, of course, that we cannot improve our existing arrangements.
The Boards will be proposing to shareholders at the May 2006 AGMs three changes to enhance balance sheet and capital structure exibility, as well as strengthen elements of its corporate governance.
These include adapting Unilevers constitutional arrangements to allow greater exibility for allocating assets between both parent companies.
This will ensure that the Group continues to be able to return capital to shareholders and pay dividends in the most efficient manner.
To simplify the relationship between our NV and PLC shares, and provide greater transparency, we also propose Antony Burgmans establishing a one-to-one equivalence in their underlying value by Chairman Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 05 Report of the Directors
