Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Chairmans Statement Vedanta is a unique growth story and our prole of In November 2004 we completed our acquisition of organic growth is unrivalled in the metals and mining Konkola Copper Mines, at a gross cost of industry.
This has been an exciting year for Vedanta.
This forms the fourth pillar of our We have made strong progress and have delivered strategy: leveraging our existing skills through on several of our development projects.
At current high copper to focus on our growth strategy and have moved prices Konkola is profitable, but the aim is to place forward in all areas.
We remain confident of the operations in a position where they are more continuing to deliver this growth in the year ahead.
profitable through the commodity cycle and to give KCM a more solid long-term outlook.
Our immediate At the time of our Listing we set out a four part focus is to improve processes and stabilise production strategy.
The first pillar of our strategy is to optimise levels.
There are considerable opportunities for future the performance of our existing assets, which development at KCM, including the world class includes the expansions in our copper and zinc Konkola Ore Body with resources of 210 million operations.
In April 2005, we started commissioning tonnes containing copper at 3.8%.
our copper smelter at Tuticorin and the new 300,000 tpa facility is producing metal.
On 31 May During the year the Company received its first credit 2005, we announced the commissioning of the new rating, Baa3 BB, since upgraded to BB.
This placed facilities at Chanderiya, supported by the expanded us at the Indian sovereign limit, which given the output at Rampura Agucha mine.
This was dominance of Indian assets was as high as could be completed around 15% below the forecast budget expected.
We raised $600 million in a bond issue and of $425 million and well below the benchmark costs the Board believes that we have a well balanced mix for comparable international projects.
We will of funding in place for our current expansion continue to look for opportunities to optimise projects.
Over the year we have spent $735 million performance and lower costs in all aspects of on our $2.2 billion project pipeline.
This brings total our operations.
spending to date to $1,029 million.
We are confident of remaining within our gearing target of under 45% The second part of our strategy is to complete the of Capital Employed throughout our current two greeneld projects: the 250,000 tpa aluminium spending programme.
complex at BALCO, and the new 1 million tpa alumina plant at Orissa.
The facilities at BALCO We believe that there are several opportunities that are proceeding on schedule, we are carrying out will allow us to develop our growth strategy further technology trials on some of the pots and are and extend the expansion pipeline.
This will take producing metal.
The alumina renery at Orissa advantage of the strong cashow that will be is also on track and budget.
As mentioned in our produced as the current projects come into April 2005 production report, public interest production and reects the many options that we submissions regarding environmental clearance are have to continue to achieve volume growth in the currently being addressed within a timetable set by long-term.
the Supreme Court of India.
We are reviewing further aluminium smelting The third pillar of our strategy is the consolidation of capacity, to take advantage of the production from our Group structure and further good progress has VAL, with the possibility over time of an additional been made over the year.
The most significant 500,000 tonnes of nished aluminium per annum.
change came from the $434 million rights issue in We also signed a memorandum of understanding Sterlite which allowed us to increase our Economic with the State Government of Orissa regarding an Interest in Sterlite to 81% and to inject funds into iron ore project with related steel facilities.
These are Sterlite for use in our expansion programme.
The both at an early stage and any projects will be exercise of the option in BALCO continues to pursued on the basis of maintaining positive financial proceed with independent valuers having been returns.
There are opportunities for expansions appointed by the Government.
We will continue to elsewhere in our existing operations, and we are pursue opportunities to simplify the structure of the evaluating projects in both zinc and copper.
4 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Chairmans Statement continued This has been an exceptional period for metal prices The delivery of our projects and the growth of our driven by strong demand from China.
This has also business could not have been achieved without the had an impact on several input prices, particularly efforts of the Board, management and employees energy related costs such as oil and coal.
There has of Vedanta, who have shown great commitment to been much talk of a super cycle and the potential for building this success.
a prolonged period of above average commodity prices.
Our policy is to remain focused on delivering The success in all areas of our strategy over the past our new projects and lowering our costs, which will year has been encouraging and in the next twelve allow us to take advantage of the significant growth months we will see progressive benefit from the opportunities offered within India and to stay profitable recently commissioned facilities at Chanderiya and regardless of the commodity market cycles.
Tuticorin and a full years contribution from KCM.
We remain focused on completing Korba and Orissa A new Government, led by the Congress party, was as well as evaluating opportunities to extend our elected in India in May 2004.
The new Government unique growth pipeline.
We are confident of has maintained a policy of growth and liberalisation.
showing good progress over the next twelve Metal use in India continues to grow above global months and delivering value to all stakeholders.
levels and the long-term attractions of the Indian economy remain considerable.
India has been much Anil Agarwal talked about as an attractive investment destination, Chairman attracting growing levels of foreign investment and 1 June 2005 the potential to become a major regional manufacturing hub.
I believe we are well placed both to take advantage of this growth and also to contribute to the future development of India by providing vital basic resources.
In March 2005, I took over as Chairman of the Board and KK Kaura became Chief Executive.
I would like to thank Michael Fowle, my predecessor as Chairman, and Jean-Pierre Rodier for their guidance and input during the past year.
Sir David Gore-Booth sadly died during the year and his counsel will be greatly missed.
I am pleased that we have appointed three new Non-executive Directors with complementary experience and we intend to appoint a further senior independent Non-executive Director in due course.
The Board is proposing a final dividend for the year of 11.55 US cents per Ordinary Share, an increase of 5% on last years implied final dividend of 11.0 US cents.
Last year we paid a single dividend of 5.5 US cents per Ordinary Share, for the four months for which we were listed, equivalent to an annual payment of 16.5 US cents per Ordinary Share.
The total dividend for the year is 17.05 US cents per Ordinary Share.
The increase in dividend at this early stage reects the Boards confidence in continued successful delivery and we remain committed to a progressive dividend policy.
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 5 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Delivering a $2bn expansion programme Tuticorin copper smelter The copper operations of Sterlite have now been Investment signicantly expanded taking total capacity from 180,000 tpa to 300,000 tpa.
The project included new acid and oxygen plants and a 22.5 MW power $87m plant.
A new cathode renery of 120,000 tpa and 100,000 tpa rod plant have also been built at Tuticorin.
The site is well placed for export from the nearby port of Tuticorin.
Anode from Tuticorin will continue INDIA to be rened at the existing plant at Silvassa for the domestic market.
Sterlite is already one of the lowest cost copper producers in the world and the new facilities should allow costs to be reduced further Sterlite Tuticorin smelter towards our target of 6.0 US cents per pound.
COMPLETED Rampura Agucha zinc mine At the heart of the operations at Hindustan Investment Zinc is the Rampura Agucha mine, a world class ore body, highly regarded for its consistent and high grade ores and low cost of production.
$90m Expansion has taken place to increase the Hindustan Zinc output from the Rampura Agucha mine Rampura Agucha Mine from 2.0 million tpa to 3.75 million tpa.
This will meet the requirements of the new smelting facility at Chanderiya.
INDIA Drilling work has also been undertaken around the mine which has taken reserves to 50.1 million tonnes.
This has extended the life of the mine by three years at the expanded level of production.
Further exploration is being undertaken.
COMPLETED Chanderiya zinc smelter HZL is Indias only integrated zinc company, Investment operating from mine to nished metal.
The ore produced at the mines contains lead which is smelted alongside the zinc.
$335m New facilities at Chanderiya were commissioned in May 2005, taking total zinc capacity from 220,000 Hindustan Zinc Chanderiya zinc smelter tpa to 390,000 tpa.
The project was delivered on time and signicantly below our budget and the international benchmarks.
HZL is already one of INDIA the lowest cost producers of zinc globally and the expansion will allow costs to be reduced further.
A new 50,000 tpa lead smelter is also being built, which will take total capacity to 85,000 tpa and should be commissioned by the end of the financial year.
COMPLETED 6 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 The delivery of this expansion programme is transforming our business, increasing production across all metals and further lowering costs.
Korba power plant Aluminium is a significant user of power Investment and the new facilities at Korba are being accompanied by a 540 MW power plant, to be powered with local coal.
$350m The total expansion is due to be commissioned in March 2006, but we anticipate starting to use the power plant in July 2005.
BALCO Korba power plant The plant consists of four units which will INDIA be introduced in stages as production at the new smelter is ramped-up.
DUE FOR COMMISSIONING MARCH 2006 Korba aluminium smelter The facilities at Korba are being expanded Investment with a new 250,000 tpa aluminium smelter to take total production from 135,000 tpa to 385,000 tpa.
This new plant uses the latest $550m technology from GAMI in China.
The project is due to be commissioned in March 2006 and some of the 288 pots are BALCO Korba aluminium smelter already being tested and are producing metal.
INDIA The completion of the smelter and power plant will transform our Aluminium Business, increasing output and reducing costs.
DUE FOR COMMISSIONING MARCH 2006 Orissa alumina refinery A new alumina renery is currently under Investment construction in the State of Orissa, to be accompanied by a new bauxite mine.
The operation is being established with $800m a capacity of 1.4 million tpa but will initially produce 1.0 million tpa.
The alumina from the renery will be used to feed the new aluminium smelting facilities at Korba.
INDIA Vedanta Alumina Orissa alumina renery The construction work at the renery is in progress and the project is due to be commissioned in March 2007.
DUE FOR COMMISSIONING MARCH 2007 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 7
