Chairmans Statement THE STRATEGY SET OUT AT THE START OF 2005 IS CLEARLY YIELDING RESULTS.
NOTWITHSTANDING THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF 2005, THE BOARD IS CONVINCED THAT THERE IS CONSIDERABLY MORE PROGRESS TO BE MADE.
Robert Beeston Chairman 14 March 2006 2005 was a year during which the new executive running through to 2007.
These objectives centre around management team achieved very encouraging progress profitability improvement and debt reduction, in part towards our strategic and operational goals.
In January 2005 we set out a new and challenging Throughout the year we remained resolutely focused on strategic plan, together with a related set of objectives, implementing this strategy and I am pleased with the progress we have achieved.
Cookson Group plc { 8 } Annual Report 2005 Profitability Capital structure and corporate governance Our two largest divisions, Ceramics and Electronics which In May 2005, shareholders approved a ten-for-one share together represented 83% of Group revenue, achieved consolidation which has, as intended, reduced the volatility return on sales from continuing operations of 9.9% and in the share price, enabling a more consistent valuation for 10.5% respectively, either close to or matching the 10.5% the Company.
targets, restated under IFRS, which we set for 2007.
The process of fide-registering from the US Securities and The Precious Metals division continued to experience Exchange Commission SEC, approved by shareholders in weak market conditions during 2005, particularly in Europe.
January 2006, has now been effected, such that we are no Our US operations achieved a return on net sales value of longer required to comply with the SECs reporting 13.2% versus our 2007 target of 15%, having benefited from obligations, thereby avoiding over 1 million in annual the restructuring actions undertaken in the first half of compliance costs.
We, of course, remain committed to the 2005.
However, the divisions European operations have highest standards of corporate governance and transparent been marginally loss-making and the turnaround of this reporting, as required under the UK Listing requirements.
situation is a clear priority for 2006.
Charges of 18.5 million incurred for restructuring Board changes across the whole Group are expected to yield rapid payback, In June 2005, Jeff Hewitt joined the Board as non-executive as operational costs reduce.
At the same time the Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee: and Mike opportunity for future organic growth has been enhanced Butterworth joined the Board as Group Finance Director, by expanding capacity in high-growth emerging markets, succeeding Dennis Millard who had held the role since 1996. especially in our higher technology products and services.
In October, Francois Wanecq joined the Executive The benefits of this progress show through in the Committee and assumed the role of Chief Executive of the Groups results for 2005.
On marginally reduced revenue, Ceramics division, succeeding Gian Carlo Cozzani who has trading profit from continuing operations of 123.5 million retired from the Board.
I would like to thank both Dennis and was up 14% over 2004.
Headline earnings per share Gian Carlo for their significant contribution to Cookson over improved 24% to 37.2p, cash flow was satisfactory and many years.
year-end net debt stood at 292 million, down 30 million These appointments conclude a major transformation of compared to 2004.
We expect further improvements in our our executive management and Board since I was appointed continuing operations in 2006 as we continue to implement as Chairman in 2003.
I am confident we have a Board and our performance enhancement strategy.
executive management team with the experience, skills and strength of purpose to drive our Company forward.
Debt reduction In December 2005 we signed agreements to sell our I would also like to offer my sincere thanks to our 13,500 Laminates and Speciality Coatings businesses which, employees worldwide for their hard work and dedication in together with earlier transactions, will take the total delivering our improving performance.
proceeds from disposals above the 100 million target The strategy set out at the start of 2005 is clearly originally set to be achieved before the end of 2006. yielding results.
Notwithstanding the achievements of 2005, the Board is convinced that there is considerably Dividend more progress to be made.
Given the good progress achieved in implementing the strategy and the much improved underlying performance of the Group in terms of earnings and cash flow, the Board is satisfied that the criteria set out in the strategic plan for the resumption of dividend payments have been met.
Accordingly the Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2005 of 5p per ordinary share.
Pensions The total reported deficit in our defined benefit plans worldwide increased in the year from 190 million to 225 million.
This arose mainly as a result of a reduction in global discount rates and an underlying improvement in the assumed life expectancy used in the actuarial calculation of the deficit, which offset the improved performance of equity investments in the plans.
The largest part of the deficit resides in our UK plan 117 million.
We have a very constructive relationship with the Trustee and have recently agreed an accelerated top-up payment schedule to bring forward the elimination of the pension deficit.
Cookson Group plc { 9 } Annual Report 2005
