Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DIPESH SHAH In this, my first Chairmans statement, I am pleased to report a Pro-forma profit before interest and tax based on regulated robust performance by the Group.
Our regulated businesses in entitlement and pre exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Northern Ireland have delivered strong contributions while meeting increased by 15% from 112.5m to 129.0m.
After deducting a the demands of their price controls.
Viridian Power & Energy lower interest charge and a higher taxation charge, pro-forma VP&E has maintained high availability from Huntstown power earnings per share based on regulated entitlement and pre station phase one Huntstown 1 and has successfully grown its exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and deferred tax increased supply position across Ireland, leading to a significant increase in its by 14% to 60.8p 2004 - 53.3p.
Net debt decreased by 22.8m to contribution to the Groups profits.
Powerteam has increased its 359.9m at 31 March 2005 from 382.7m at 31 March 2004. contribution through growth in its external business.
Sx3 continued to improve margin performance and exceeded its target of a high single digit operating profit margin.
Dividends A final dividend of 25.34p per share is recommended which, In March, we announced the disposal of Sx3 to Northgate together with the interim dividend of 9.84p, amounts to a total of Information Solutions plc Northgate for 155m.
The transaction, 35.18p for the year, a 4.5% increase on last year.
This is in line with which completed on 25 April 2005, results in a book gain of our commitment to deliver real dividend growth across the current approximately 100m in the financial year 2005 06, delivering Transmission and Distribution T&D regulatory period.
As outlined in the disposal announcement, we intend to make a one-off return of capital to shareholders of around 100m representing approximately 10% of Board our market capitalisation.
We have decided to effect this through a B share scheme accompanied by a share consolidation, under I was appointed Chairman on 1 May 2005, following the retirement which all shareholders will be treated equally and will be able to of Philip Rogerson who provided the Company with seven years of elect to receive their payment as a dividend or through the exceptional service, having joined the Board as a non-executive redemption of B shares.
director in 1998 and having been appointed Chairman in 1999.
In February 2005, Desmond Smyth also retired from the Board, having Following the disposal of Sx3 we are strongly focused on our energy made an outstanding contribution to the Company as a nonbusinesses in Ireland: executive director for nine years.
Our thanks go to both of them for their dedication and wise counsel.
Northern Ireland Electricity NIE - maximising the efficiency of our regulated assets, which remain the mainstay of our business: and Employees VP&E - growing a profitable integrated energy business in The Groups strong performance is due to the commitment of our competitive markets across Ireland.
Across the Group, they have continued to work hard, effectively and with dedication.
This was aptly demonstrated by the Further investment in generation is central to our strategy and we tremendous response, in very difficult circumstances, to severe intend to start construction of Huntstown power station phase two adverse weather conditions experienced in Northern Ireland this Huntstown 2 this summer.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all employees for their valued input throughout the past year.
Our goal is to deliver shareholder value through consistent performance and sustainable dividend growth.
Looking Forward We place the delivery of strong operating performance at the heart of Financial Results our approach to the business, as demonstrated again by this years results.
Our NIE businesses are well positioned as we enter the last Group turnover increased by 13% from 834.2m to 943.7m two years of the current T&D price control and we are looking to principally due to increased turnover from VP&E and NIE.
build on VP&Es significant progress to date.
The disposal of Sx3 and associated return of capital reinforce our commitment to our Taken together, NIEs regulated businesses incurred a net undergoal of delivering shareholder value, and allow us to continue to recovery of 15.8m 2004 - 9.5m against the income to which focus on the development of our energy businesses in Ireland.
they were entitled under their regulatory formulae.
In line with the treatment adopted last year and as further explained in the Financial Review, we have added back the impact of this underrecovery in arriving at pro-forma profit before interest and tax and earnings per share.
Dipesh J. Shah 17 May 2005 Chairmans Statement 3
