793529 1050 3 6 05 10:38 Page 4 Chairmans Statement It is my pleasure to report another year of achievement for your company, with robust increases in customer numbers, mobile revenue and operating cash ow, enabling us to substantially increase returns to shareholders.
Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL Chairman Executing our strategic goals Extending our global reach Last year we outlined six strategic goals, designed then to ensure the delivery of We have continued to pursue selective opportunities to expand our geographic increased value to our customers and shareholders as we move into a new era in footprint, with a particular focus on Central and Eastern Europe.
In March, we mobile telecommunications.
I believe we have made significant progress, particularly announced that we had entered into conditional agreements with TIW of Canada to with the consumer launch of 3G and the ongoing implementation of our One Vodafone acquire 79% of the share capital of MobiFon S. A. in Romania, in which we already programme.
have a 20% interest, and 100% of the share capital of Oskar Mobil a. s. in the Czech Republic.
Both companies are fast growing mobile operators that will benefit further In November, we announced the full roll-out of our consumer 3G offering across from the global services and scale benets that Vodafone can deliver.
This was an important step in our 3G strategy and followed the success completion will take place before the end of June 2005. of the Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS data card introduced in February last year.
The enhancements that 3G brings will enable us to build on the success we have In October, the merger of Vodafone Holdings K. K. and Vodafone K. K. in Japan was achieved with Vodafone live!
since the service started in October 2002.
We now have completed following our successful tender offer to increase our shareholdings in both almost 31 million active Vodafone live!
users and have a total of 2.4 million 3G devices companies.
This clearly demonstrates our long-term commitment to the strategically registered on our networks.
important mobile market in Japan.
The merger has created a simplied company structure which has already contributed towards greater operational effectiveness and Vodafone live!
and Vodafone Mobile Connect are prime examples of how we offer financial efficiencies and, although the business is currently not performing as well as services that are focused on specic customer needs.
The most recent examples of we would wish, I am confident that, in time, our investment will prove to be very this approach have been the launch of Vodafone Simply, which caters for those rewarding.
customers who want an uncomplicated and straight-forward mobile experience, and the simplication of our roaming tariffs with the introduction of Vodafone Travel Promise.
In December, we signed a Partner Network Agreement with SmarTone in Hong Kong, bringing the number of our Partner Networks to fourteen.
SmarTone, now fully Our ability to launch common services across so many markets at the same time is rebranded SmarTone-Vodafone, is one of Hong Kongs leading mobile operators in evidence of how Vodafone is beginning to deliver the advantages of scale and scope multimedia services.
and, in particular, shows the benefit of creating central marketing and technology functions last year.
We are building on these achievements through our One Vodafone programme to drive further benets from our global footprint.
4.07p per share Share March 2005 4bn Dividends March 2005 Purchases per share 2.0315p per share March 2004 1.1bn March 2004 March 2003 nil March 2003 1.6929p per share 4 | Strategy
