The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Chairmans Statement: 2005 was a significant year in the transformation of the Group.
We enter 2006 with a more robust portfolio of businesses and with our cornerstones of leadership, operational excellence and growth firmly underpinning our objectives for the future.
The Group continued to make good progress in 2005.
The benefits of our restructuring activities, strong end markets and continued operational improvements have established an excellent platform for further progress in 2006.
Financial highlights Total continuing Group revenue increased 14.4% to 789.4m 2004: 690.1m.
Continued strong growth from our Engineering Products Division was bolstered by stronger market conditions in the Minerals and Clear Liquid activities and the significant improvement reflected in our Defence, Nuclear & Gas Division.
Operating profit from continuing operations before restructuring costs at 66.3m 2004: 59.0m was 12.3% above 2004, with Group subsidiaries at 57.1m 2004: 52.0m and our joint venture and associate companies contributing 9.2m against 7.0m in 2004.
Group pre-tax profit from continuing operations before restructuring costs was up 11.2% to 62.2m 2004: 55.9m due to excellent performances from the Engineering Products and Defence, Nuclear & Gas Divisions.
Strong market conditions in our Minerals activities, coupled to the benefits of our UK restructuring and the addition of Gabbioneta in the final quarter, all contributed to the improved results when compared to 2004.
With an effective tax rate of 26% on profit before restructuring costs, While the Groups organic strategy provides earnings per share for continuing operations pre restructuring costs amounted to 23.5p 2004: 21.7p.
Cash generation, while being good prospects for future profit progress, our negatively impacted by the strength of increased factory loading, remained strong with cash generated by operations at 71.3m.
strong cash generation and balance sheet give The year ended with a net debt position of 76.4m against an in funds us the full range of options to create further position of 12.6m last year, reflecting the acquisition of Gabbioneta, the costs of our UK restructuring and a 10m contribution to the growth through business development and Groups UK pension schemes.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.65p 2004: 9.35p per share making a total distribution for the year of 13.2p 2004: 12.8p.
2 Chairmans Statement Strategy & structure Prospects In 2002, we focused the entire Weir organisation on improving the The Group remains in good financial condition with a much operational performance and financial returns of the Group.
The improved order book and a continuing level of confidence in achievements to date have been substantial a change in culture, our most important markets.
a more focused portfolio of businesses and a clear strategy now in The positive market conditions experienced in 2005 are expected the final stages of delivery.
to continue in 2006 and the full year contribution from Gabbioneta, In 2005, the Group made significant progress against our financial and coupled to improving performances within the Engineering Products operational objectives.
The disposal of the water treatment businesses in and Engineering Services Divisions are expected to deliver a good level the second half of the year reduced our exposure to lower margin, higher of progress in 2006. risk project management activities while the acquisition of Gabbioneta placed us in a stronger position in the higher margin, higher growth oil refining pump business.
People The previously announced restructuring of our UK Engineering Products On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our employees for their businesses, while not fully concluded, was well managed and the second commitment and dedication to our operational initiatives and their half performances of both businesses provides a high level of confidence significant achievements in 2005. in the successful execution of these complex projects.
I am confident that they will show the same determination to deliver The key management focus in 2006 will be to ensure delivery of our further progress in 2006 as we continue to improve our competitiveness restructuring plans, continue to improve our operational performance and forge new and stronger customer relationships.
and forge stronger customer relationships in all of our core markets.
Finally, I would like to thank our shareholders who continue to support While the Groups organic strategy provides good prospects for future our strategy and potential.
The Group has in place the right strategy profit progress, our strong cash generation and balance sheet give us and the required depth of expertise.
I remain confident in our ability the full range of options to create further growth through business to deliver improving returns to our shareholders.
The successful integration of Gabbioneta and the joint venture in Saudi Arabia provide a high level of confidence that we have in place the internal competency to identify, conclude and integrate new aquisitions into the culture of the Weir Group.
In 2005, the Board announced a 50m on market share buy back programme.
At 30 December 2005, the Group had repurchased 3.28 million shares at a total cost of 10.7m an average price of 324p per share.
Sir Robert Smith Chairman 21 March 2006 Corporate governance The standards of behaviour required of companies and their leaders have never been greater.
I remain confident that at the Weir Group we have the culture and required processes to protect effectively the interests of all of our stakeholders.
The Board is committed to a governance framework which supports our vision and values and uses our expertise to add value in the eyes of our customers while creating shareholder value through the effective use of our resources.
The Board is fully engaged in the review of proposed new reporting requirements and remains committed to adopt those recommendations which provide useful, increased visibility for investors and shareholders.
In 2005, the Board took the decision to add internal audit resources to our already robust external and peer group audits and self-certification programmes.
The Group internal audit manager is now in place and I am confident that the increased rigour in our processes will deliver ongoing benefits to the Group.
As previously reported, Chris Rickard, the Group finance director, is to be leaving the Group due to family considerations and we are pleased to announce the appointment of Keith Cochrane who will succeed Chris effective 1 July 2006.
Currently Group director of finance at Scottish Power plc, Keith comes to Weir with the extensive experience required to support the continued development of the Group.
Following a six month orientation and handover period, Stephen King, who joined the Board in February 2005, was appointed to succeed Professor Percy as Audit Committee chairman.
Stephens current application of international accounting regulation at fide La Rue plc and his extensive international experience are particularly relevant to the Groups activities.
Professor Percy continues as deputy chairman and senior non-executive director and is now subject to annual re-election.
