Chairmans statement Peter Hickson Chairman I am pleased to report that AWG has produced a good During the year, Anglian Water completed the balance of performance, after three years of poor results.
We built on its 1.5 billion Asset Management Period 3 AMP3 capital the encouraging results in the first six months, with investment programme and focused on achieving a Anglian Water delivering a strong performance and satisfactory outcome from the AMP4 regulatory review.
Morrison continuing its improving trend.
Although This review, concluded in December 2004, established the comparable turnover grew 1.0 per cent, total operating lowest price increase for Anglian Water of any water and profit rose to 333.5 million from 305.4 million last year.
wastewater company in England and Wales.
After exceptional charges, goodwill amortisation and Our customers benefited by some 15 per annum from interest, profits before tax were 65.3 million compared our financial structure.
Without this, our price increases with last years loss of 79.8 million.
This improvement would have been at, or close to, the average for the provided earnings per share of 35.2 pence compared with sector.
The review also set a number of challenging a loss per share last year of 52.0 pence.
efficiency targets and the management team has put in The board proposes a final dividend of 34.3 pence per place the framework and detailed plans to address these share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 48.7 challenges.
pence per share, 3.2 per cent higher than last years Service quality remained high during the year and Anglian shareholder payment, which was made in the form of Water maintained a good score on Ofwats measure, redeemable shares.
We decided to return to paying cash Overall Performance Assessment OPA.
Anglian Water also dividends to shareholders rather than providing met Ofwats leakage targets for 2004 05.
performance is one of the best of the water and I can confirm also that we intend to maintain the group wastewater companies in the UK.
Drinking water quality dividend per share in real terms up to the end of the remained high and overall microbiological compliance current regulatory period in 2010, which continues the continues to be at a high level.
All 46 designated bathing policy we employed during the last regulatory period.
The waters in our region again passed the mandatory coliform decision to do so follows a review by the board of the standards, the sixth time in the last eight years that 100 companys dividend policy.
In addition, we have per cent compliance has been achieved.
announced a share buy-back programme of 75 million The Morrison business showed significant progress across which will represent a further return of capital to all divisions during the year under review.
performance continued to improve from the Anglian Waters financial performance showed a managements emphasis on cash generation, margin continuing improvement in 2004 05.
Turnover increased improvement and order book development.
Turnover by 3.9 per cent, mainly as a result of the regulatory pricing increased by 5.3 per cent to 910.4 million, with most of formula.
The size of the increase was partially reduced the increase coming from Support Services.
Turnover fell because revenues last year were higher as a result of that in both the Construction Services and Project Investments years long, dry summer.
This years net increase activities due to greater focus on contract selection.
contributed to a rise in Anglian Waters operating profit of Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill 6.4 per cent to 339.3 million from 318.9 million in amortisation increased from 17.1 million to 21.8 2003 04.
Operating costs included a charge of 11.4 million, and this was after absorbing additional central million relating to the redundancy programme costs.
4 AWG Plc We built on the encouraging results in the first six months, with Anglian Water delivering a strong performance and Morrison continuing its improving trend.
In the Utility Services business the vast majority of clients At board level, Roy Pointer, who was Chief Executive of maintained or extended the scope of their contracts and Anglian Water, retired after 44 years in the water industry.
In the Facilities Services Roy joined the board in January 1998 and played an business, the performance in the local authority housing integral part in the development of Anglian Water over a market showed an improvement as a result of reduced number of years.
On behalf of the board, I would like to overhead costs and better management of existing and wish him a long and happy retirement and thank him for new contracts.
his contribution over many years.
In November 2004, Scott Longhurst joined the board as Group Finance A number of significant framework contracts were won Director.
This was a crucial appointment for us and he has during the period, including contracts with Salford City already made a significant impact on the group.
Council, Thames Water, Welsh Water and HM Prison Service.
Project Investments continued its strategy to The results reflect a tremendous team effort and I would actively manage its project portfolio and realise value from like to thank all my colleagues for their contribution concessions as appropriate in order to pursue other during a period of considerable change for the group.
Morrison sold its stake in two Private The groups objective will be to continue to focus on its Finance Initiative PFI concessions during the year, the A69 core water business while at the same time driving value Roadlink and a Ministry of Defence housing PFI in the from the non-regulated businesses.
We will look ahead to Bristol area.
the next regulatory period confident that we will be able By the end of the year, Morrisons order book was 2.76 to tackle the challenging targets set by the Regulator in billion compared with 1.77 billion last year.
Eighty five the last review.
Although management has developed per cent of the order book is now represented by longdetailed plans to address those targets, there is still much term or framework contracts.
At Morrison, we will continue to set stretching internal targets with a view to driving greater AWGs property business, which had formerly been part returns to AWGs shareholders from this business.
With of Morrison, was established during the year as a separate the appointments we have made and the transformation management and reporting unit.
This provided greater of our executive structure that has been accomplished, transparency as AWG Property continued to dispose of AWG has the right people in place to deliver future legacy properties whilst maintaining a focus on selected progress.
With the boards commitment to the next five development projects in Scotland.
Among the legacy years dividend policy and the announcement of a share properties sold during the year were Broadway Plaza in buy-back, I am confident that we can look forward to Birmingham and Leeds City Square for total gross continuing to build value for our shareholders.
Jonson Cox, Group Chief Executive, has driven a management change programme during the year.
Two Chief Operating Officers have been appointed to head up Anglian Water and Morrison respectively and, at the level below, a further 11 senior management appointments have been made.
Although this represents considerable Peter Hickson organisational change, it will continue to yield benefits in 1 June 2005 the future.
