CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ADECADE OF STRONG GROWTH Over the last ten years we have made Westbury one of the Westbury Homes land release and the operation of the planning system are UKs leading housebuilders and delivered consistent growth.
The more subdued market in the second half meant that yet to be realised.
The Government have instead focused We have already achieved all the major strategic objectives the turnover of our Homes business was fairly stable for on releasing land in designated development areas around that we set ourselves in our last five-year plan in 2001, the year at 885.5 million 2004: 875.1 million.
We Milton Keynes, Ashford, the Thames Gateway and M11 doubling the turnover of our Homes business and continued to make good progress in gaining efficiencies, corridor.
The involvement of English Partnerships in public significantly improving operating margins.
Our Space4 as a result of which the operating profit, before goodwill land releases seeks to impose a level of control on design, manufacturing operation is breaking even and our gearing amortisation and exceptional item, increased to pricing and the proportion of social housing, such as to risk reduction programme is a year ahead of plan.
As a result of these making many developments uneconomic.
In addition, the that our culture, systems and processes will provide the improved efficiencies we are pleased to report that our emphasis on increasing public consultation, and the soundest of platforms for delivery of our next five-year plan.
disconnection between central and local government, are combining to make the planning process as slow and Market background During the year we sold a total of 4,361 homes at an average tortuous as ever.
The housing market in 2004 appeared to be returning to its selling price of 194,000, compared with 4,400 units at an normal seasonal pattern, with a strong first four months average of 191,700 in the previous twelve months.
Our Westbury is the dominant developer in Milton Keynes, and followed by a quieter summer period.
However, the usual Renaissance range of house designs continued to be well also has extensive land holdings in the Ashford area, thus autumn recovery was dampened by consumer uncertainty received by customers, enabling us to create imaginative positioning us well within the current environment.
resulting from the succession of interest rate rises, associated and attractive mixed developments that also meet the Nevertheless, the overall supply of land for housebuilding Bank of England comments and considerable media Governments PPG3 requirements for high densities.
These in the UK remains too restricted and this continues to be speculation on the outlook for house prices.
Overall, this products accounted for nearly 60% of our total output the principal constraint on the growth of the industry.
resulted in a trading environment from the late spring during the year.
onwards that was as challenging as any we have Joint venture with Bank of Scotland encountered since the early 1990s.
The market for 2005 is We maintained our drive to raise both quality and efficiency, In March 2004 we established Wescott Holdings as a 50:50 expected to be stable but challenging and house price benefiting from the new divisional structure created in 2003 joint venture with Bank of Scotland, with access to 150 million inflation is expected to remain positive but subdued.
At the and the successful merger of our West and Southern regions.
It has two subsidiaries, Wescott Homes beginning of this year we launched a national marketing and Wescott Land, which focus respectively on aspirational campaign with the aim of stimulating the market, and have Although we currently offer products across a wide price developments and land trading.
This is a very important been gratified by the results so far.
range our focus remains on the provision of high quality step for the Group and provides additional capital to extend homes in prime locations to the mass market.
Our priority in our activity in major developments and to secure larger land The fundamental dynamics of the market remain the current year will be driving volume rather than average holdings to underwrite our growth plans.
overwhelmingly positive, with household formation alone prices, through sustained marketing activity across an continuing to outstrip the supply of new homes and further increasing number of active sites.
We sold our prestigious Leftbank high rise apartment demand arising for the replacement of old housing stock.
scheme in Manchester city centre to Wescott Homes at the None of the Governments actions to date to improve the Land and planning outset.
In addition to the continued development of that site, supply of land or reform the planning system seem likely to We maintained our land bank during the year, ending it Wescott Homes has acquired a site at Cowes, Isle of Wight, end this imbalance in the near term.
Although house prices with a total of 39,400 2004: 39,200 plots.
This comprised for a quayside development of 48 luxury apartments have risen, interest rates are still low by historic standards 15,700 2004: 16,100 plots owned or controlled with overlooking the world-famous yachting harbour.
We expect and affordability remains at acceptable levels.
With planning consent, a further 1,700 2004: 900 with terms further purchases in 2005. employment levels expected to remain high, we believe agreed, and strategic land holdings of 22,000 2004: 22,200 that we are well positioned to capitalise on strong plots.
We have a strong track record of taking strategic sites Construction costs underlying demand and broadly stable house prices by through the planning process to obtain consent.
This is After a long period of stability, the past year has seen significantly increasing the volume output of our Homes becoming an increasing source of strength in a tight land renewed upward pressure on raw material costs.
Worldwide business over the next five years.
market, particularly for brownfield sites in urban locations.
steel prices have risen dramatically, as have fuel costs.
Increasing environmental impact levies have pushed up the We remain an active participant in the bodies which are prices of heavyside materials such as aggregates.
However, taking responsibility for delivery of the Barker Reports we have been able to mitigate these pressures through our recommendations on improving land supply.
However, continuous programme of improving procurement we are disappointed that the promised improvements in processes and partnering within our supply chain.
As a result, the net effect of material cost increases over the last year was less than 3% and current indicators suggest that it will remain at a similar level in the current year.
10 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Labour cost inflation for the year was under 6% which, housebuilding as a whole, and we have sufficient active sites while still substantial, was the lowest rate of increase for to deliver our planned increase in Homes volumes.
More importantly, there was evidence towards have a strong land bank, with substantial holdings within the end of the year that labour cost inflation was continuing the key areas which the Government has identified for to slow and early signs for this year confirm that trend.
I am sure that our proven skills in both the acquisition and regeneration of land will stand us in Business development excellent stead in what is likely to remain a tight land market.
Space4 Space4, having achieved break-even, is now poised to Our Space4 factory at Castle Bromwich delivered a substantial increase external sales of those products which it is best volume increase during the year, increasing its output by equipped to deliver quickly and cost-effectively, particularly nearly 70% to almost 2,200 units, and attaining a break-even in the expanding social and affordable housing sector.
This progress was achieved despite some constraints on market demand as a result of the more I have greatly enjoyed all my 33 years with Westbury and challenging trading conditions of the second half, and the am proud of what my colleagues and I have been able to planning difficulties holding back social housing demand.
achieve in developing it into one of the UKs leading Our key priority for the current year is to expand sales to housebuilders.
I have every confidence that it will continue third parties, particularly in the social and affordable housing to progress in the current year and beyond.
This is the sector in which we believe that the greatest opportunities for Space4 exist, as it is ideally suited to the production of family homes to standard designs of a repetitive nature.
Incresco Our financial services business performed well below expectations during the year, incurring a loss of 1.5 million after achieving break-even in 2003 04.
In the light of its continuing poor results in the second half, we have embarked Martin Donohue on a programme to refocus Increscos operations that will Chief Executive avoid any disruption to our core Westbury Homes business.
Westbury Direct This business sells value added products and services to our customers and trades in-house under the Solutions brand.
It is an increasingly valuable profit generator, making a record 4 million contribution to Group operating profit during the year.
It also remains an important growth vehicle, offering further significant scope for future development.
Future growth I shall leave the Group later this year in very capable hands and with the benefit of a clear strategy, strong finances and the right skills to prosper in the current market place.
The fundamentals of supply and demand are positive for UK 12 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005
