Chairmans statement Continued growth The last 12 months have seen the opening of an exciting new chapter in the Whitbread story.
The acquisition and successful integration of Premier Lodge to form Premier Travel Inn was accompanied by continued good growth in sales, like-for-like sales and by another steady improvement in return on capital employed on an underlying basis.
For the fourth year in succession we have achieved double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share.
As a result, Whitbread is now in a position to make a significant return of cash to shareholders by crystallising the value that has been built up over the past decade in our full-service hotel properties.
A period of transformation The last five years have seen a Sir John Banham transformation in the shape of Chairman Whitbread: 2000 sale of brewing and o-licence businesses: 2001 demerger of pubs and bars: 2004 acquisition of Premier Lodge and creation of Premier Travel Inn: 2005 exit from Marriott full-service hotels.
While the disposal of more than 3.5 billion worth of assets has dominated the headlines, the real story has been about our organic growth, as Whitbread has set about building its budget hotels, restaurants and sports, health and tness clubs to become the UKs leading hospitality company.
PAGE 4 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The last 12 months have seen the opening of an exciting new chapter in the Whitbread story.
It is remarkable that the company It is notable that Angie Risley, our Total Shareholder Return TSR has continued to deliver such steady Human Resources Director, has joined performances during a period of change the Board.
Whitbread is one of only that included significant global events six FTSE 100 companies where the 550 aecting our industry.
Since 2000 1, human resources function is represented 400 Whitbread has delivered double-digit directly at Board level.
growth in adjusted earnings per share 250 The Board year-after-year and it has raised its Whitbread return on capital employed.
At this years Annual General Meeting 100 we shall say farewell to three directors.
Total shareholder returns have improved -50 David Richardson, our Finance Director, both in absolute terms and in relation to has played a central role in transforming other large UK quoted companies.
TSR of FTSE 100 constituents from Whitbread.
His successor, Christopher 19 October 2000 the announcement Rogers, has a hard act to follow.
Both Dividend of the demerger of Pubs and Bars until Prue Leith and David Williamson will 18 March 2005 the week of the The Boards confidence in Whitbreads be standing down as non-executive announcement of the disposal of Marriott.
organic growth prospects is reected in directors, after 17 years combined the final dividend payment of 18.35p per service.
Both have made notable share, making a total dividend for the contributions to the company and year of 25.25p per share, an increase of we wish them every happiness.
The final dividend will be paid on 8 July to shareholders on the register at Whitbread Total Shareholder Return the close of business on 6 May 2005.
Finally, this is my last Whitbread annual relative to FTSE 100 since AGM 2000 report.
My successor Anthony Habgood People will nd that it is both a pleasure and During the time that I have been at a privilege to help guide and serve a 225 Whitbread I have been fortunate to work company with such a distinguished past 200 with many talented individuals.
The and such an exciting future.
175 150 quality of the people that we are able to 125 attract at all levels of the organisation 100 testies to its spirit and remains a key 75 area of competitive strength.
50 The changes of the last five years Whitbread Sir John Banham have been made possible by the Chairman skill, enthusiasm and dedication of thousands of Whitbread people who 25 April 2005 provide millions of guests with the kind of welcome that encourages them to return time and again.
On your behalf it is my privilege to thank them all.
Whitbread TSR relative to FTSE100 TSR Total Shareholder Return % rebased to 100 PAGE 5
