William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement We also commenced a three-year Our dispute with the BHB which in past programme to upgrade our core years led to significant uncertainty with In 2005, our third full year as bookmaking systems which, when regard to the cost of content for the a public company, we took a complete, will provide significant entire industry was resolved in our business benets and give our favour by a judgment in the Court of number of key strategic customers the convenience of betting Appeal.
The judgment will reduce the steps, including the across our channels through a single ability of sports bodies to charge account.
As a acquisition of Stanley Leisure separate matter, the Government has plcs betting shops and There were a number of developments established an additional committee in our industry during the course of investment in EPOS and new under the chairmanship of Lord 2005, particularly in the areas of Donoughue to examine the text systems in our LBOs.
The Gambling replacement of the statutory levy.
An Earnings per share excluding Act 2005 was enacted although the key initial report has been published and provisions will not come into force until the Government has confirmed its exceptional items fell slightly late 2007.
There are a number of intention to end the levy in September but as a sign of the Boards provisions which are expected to be 2009. beneficial to the betting industry confidence for the future, we including longer opening hours in the As a result of the Stanley acquisition we are proposing to increase winter, the classication of FOBTs as introduced new nancing arrangements total dividends by 11%.
gaming machines and the introduction and gave guidance on a target capital in LBOs of 500 jackpot machines.
Consistent with this guidance, provisions including the removal of the the Board indicated its intention in demand criteria could also impact our September 2005 to return 200m Sporting results were not generally in estate although we believe that this may 300m by way of on-market share buyour favour and this led to lower levels of not be significant over the longer term.
backs within an eighteen month period.
gross win in our traditional sports We are working closely with the newly By the end of 2005 we had bought back betting business in the Retail and established Gambling Commission to 78.3m of shares.
This was assist in developing its policies and compensated for by growth in FOBTs The Board is proposing a final dividend procedures which will regulate future and in our Interactive division which of 12.2 pence per share which combined operations.
continued to increase gross win with the interim dividend of 6.1 pence substantially, particularly in online poker In its Pre-Budget Report in December per share results in total dividends for and arcade games but also in its 2005 the Government set out its the year of 18.3 pence per share, an 11% sportsbook.
We continued to maintain a conclusions in respect of its review of increase on the total dividends paid in tight control over costs.
gambling taxation which was initiated in the comparable period.
We were pleased that, Our acquisition of Stanley Leisure plcs I would like to formally extend a warm at the present time, the Government has betting shops in the UK, Republic of welcome to all the Stanley employees decided not to increase the rate of gross Ireland, the Channel Islands and the Isle who have joined William Hill and thank profit tax.
However, we were of Man has substantially improved our all our colleagues for their hard work in disappointed that the Government competitive position in the UK and a challenging year.
decided not to change the way in which given access to the Irish betting market.
This significant progress has been made in Trading in the first eight weeks of 2006 continues to provide them with an integrating the business into the has been mixed, with some strong unfair advantage over traditional existing William Hill estate and this weeks, aided by more favourable bookmakers and the pressure on project will be complete by the end of football results, and some poor weeks, theoretical horse racing margins in the first quarter of 2006.
We believe that particularly for horseracing which has particular is expected to continue.
An synergies and other benets of the been impacted by both unfavourable independent committee under the acquisition will exceed the 13m we results and xture cancellations.
Online chairmanship of Lord Donoughue is initially expected.
gaming continues to grow strongly and reviewing the starting price mechanism costs remain under tight control.
and its findings are expected to be We successfully installed a replacement announced in the early summer.
There text system and a new EPOS system into After this relatively short trading period, were changes announced in the way in the William Hill estate to replace and with the World Cup and the full year which FOBTs are taxed from the mechanical tills and cameras, which benets of both the Stanley acquisition previous regime in which FOBT income have served us for over 25 years.
The and EPOS rollout still to come, the Board was subject to betting duty to one in automation of the betting process is remains confident in the prospects for which it is subject to VAT.
From April delivering gains in labour productivity in the Group.
2006 FOBTs will also be subject to the LBOs and cost savings in central amusement machine license duty functions.
It has also been well received Charles Scott AMLD.
The rate of AMLD is to be set in by our customers.
This major project Chairman the 2006 Budget.
It is possible that the was rolled out in the William Hill estate rate at which remote gaming will be with minimum disruption and the same taxed will also be announced in the technology is being rolled out to the 2006 Budget.
This phase of the project will be completed by March 2006.
