Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Chairmans statement Review of the 52 weeks ended 30 January 2005 The size of our company increased signicantly with the acquisition of Safeway last year.
Safeway made an 11 month contribution to the group gures and has signicantly changed the shape and geographical reach of the company.
At the year end we traded from 498 stores compared with 125 stores at 1 February 2004.
The task of converting Safeway stores into Morrisons has been challenging but I believe we have made good progress towards our objective of becoming one of the four major national food retailers and are on track to complete the programme well ahead of the original plan.
The year has been a very exacting one for all our staff.
Extra work has been necessary in the planning and the execution of both the store conversion and disposal programmes.
These tasks have been completed with enthusiasm and skill.
We have in place a highly competent team of people.
I must compliment them on what has already been achieved and express my personal thanks and confidence in them going forward.
I am pleased to note that in the 27th year of our profit sharing scheme a sum of 197m will be distributed amongst all eligible employees.
There is no doubt that there is another year of hard work ahead taking us well down the road towards achieving our medium-term objectives.
I am confident that by the end of the current year we will be providing all our customers around the country with the quality and standards of service they have come to expect from Morrisons.
I am also confident we will achieve a significant improvement in performance in 2006 7 given the extremely encouraging results from stores converted from Safeway to Morrisons.
Sales Total takings through our stores were slightly in excess of 13bn.
59bn was from the core Morrison estate which represents an increase of 115% over last year, and is a like for like increase of 71%, or 46% if fuel sales are excluded.
In addition, 57 stores were converted from Safeway to Morrisons progressively during the year which added a further 07bn to the Morrison total sales.
Sales in the Safeway branded stores were 64bn which represents a decrease of 68%, or 89% excluding fuel.
Sales through Safeway included a contribution of 08bn from stores which were disposed of during the second half of the year.
Turnover Having adjusted for VAT and other income, group turnover was 121bn for the year ended 30 January 2005, compared to 49bn in 2004.
Other income includes almost 40m of rent received, up from 222m in the previous year.
Gross profit The gross margin fell from 255% to 244% due to a number of factors.
On the plus side were the initial synergies derived from combining the two businesses, but these were more than offset by the Safeway price cuts which we introduced immediately following the takeover and the re-alignment of Safeways buying terms.
We had a number of problems with the Safeway accounting system in the early part of the year and amongst other reporting issues found it impossible to prove whether certain debit balances on supplier accounts arose pre or post acquisition.
Due to this uncertainty it was felt that a specic provision of 40m should be made to the accounts for the year to 30 January 2005.
In total gross profit for the year was 2,954m.
Costs Costs as a percentage of sales were higher than in previous years due to the conversion programme.
This is due to the temporary but unavoidable running of two distribution, administration and IT functions which is a fundamental necessity until the completion of the conversion programme.
Labour costs have risen from 115% to 131% of turnover, whilst other operating costs have increased from 52% to 60%.
Depreciation Depreciation in the year was 265m representing 22% of turnover.
profit Operating profit before exceptional costs was 3803m, representing 31% of turnover.
Exceptional costs were 992m, mainly comprising redundancy payments to former Safeway staff of 238m and costs of 724m associated with the store conversion programme.
Net interest payable, after capitalising 64m, was 592m.
Operating profit pre-exceptionals less net interest payable was 3211m.
profit before tax was 2971m compared to 3199m the previous year.
6 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Chairmans statement continued Capital expenditure Capital expenditure during the year was 423m.
In the current financial year, this is expected to rise to approximately 650m reecting our decision to accelerate the store conversion programme which will be largely complete by the end of the current financial year.
Capital expenditure will fall substantially in the financial year 2006 7.
By the end of this year the majority of the conversion programme and supporting infrastructure will be in place.
Over the three year period to January 2007, total capital expenditure will be comfortably within the 1575bn that we announced at the time of the acquisition.
Pensions On an FRS 17 basis the pensions liability has increased to 2635m from a combined Morrison Safeway deficit last year of 2082m.
818m less deferred tax of 245m of this increase was due to a change in actuarial assumptions.
In 2005 the net company contribution was 465m.
Balance sheet Net borrowings at the year end were 1171bn compared to net cash of 207m 12 months ago, or 1077bn when opening Safeway debt is taken into account.
Net borrowings represent 291% of shareholders funds of 40bn.
Performance of conversion stores We converted 57 stores to the Morrison fascia during the year.
We are nding that the Morrisons format is drawing customers back to a location that many had deserted and accordingly customer numbers are over 20% ahead of unconverted stores.
Although customer numbers have improved dramatically we have not yet managed to raise their average spend to the levels seen in the core Morrison stores.
However sales per square foot are making good progress.
Just one year into the three year target of 1972 sales are already up from 1482 to 1780 per sq.
ft in the first 6 weeks of this year.
We announced at the time of our interim results in October 2004 that we would increase the pace of the conversion process from three to four stores per week.
Much of the necessary planning work has already been completed to convert around 170 Safeway stores during the course of this year.
This includes the completion of major extensions to stores at Thamesmead, Nottingham, Coventry and Hinckley, prior to conversion.
Many store conversions are in areas where Morrisons has not previously traded and we are pleased with the positive response from customers.
Our success is achieved by having the goods and services required by customers and the range of product available in our newly converted stores is being well-received.
Unconverted Safeway stores Substantial price reductions were made in the continuing Safeway stores reducing the cost of shopping by some 12-14% as we rapidly moved to replace the Safeway yer which had encouraged cherry picking with the strong Morrisons promotional offer.
Whilst sales volumes responded positively, these were insufficient to offset fully the price reductions.
Customer numbers are showing an encouraging increase, particularly post Christmas, rewarding the fact that we served customers well during this crucial shopping period.
Update on disposals In total 112 stores were divested during the financial year raising 903m which was 360m more than the original book value.
The fair value adjustment was 342m, leaving 179m in the profit and loss account.
A further 52, predominantly small leasehold stores, have been sold since the year end for approximately 80m.
Of the remaining stores, those not in this years conversion programme, some are already subject to offers from competitors and the others are being held for future conversion, development or sale.
By the end of this year we expect to be operating approximately 360 Morrisons stores with an average size of 28,500 sq.
ft. representing a significant presence in the retail food market and backed by the vertical integration which has always served us well.
Infrastructure We are investing signicantly in improving and expanding the company infrastructure to ensure our continued prosperity and future growth.
7 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Chairmans statement continued The new head ofce in Bradford will allow us to centralise administration from January 2006.
This will enable us to vacate and dispose of the ofce accommodation in Hayes by the end of 2005 and to dispose of a number of ofce buildings in Yorkshire.
Distribution is being brought in line with our reshaped business and the completion of our new regional distribution depot at Kettering is on programme for late autumn.
Plans are well advanced to adapt the distribution centres at Bellshill and Bristol to the Morrisons footprint through the acquisition of additional space.
A 100 acre site has been bought in Corby and part of this land has planning permission for a frozen food distribution centre, which should come on stream in 2006.
Produce packing has already been augmented by the purchase and extension of facilities at Thrapston and production is now in full swing.
Work has commenced on the adaptation of an existing building in Rushden in order to give additional capacity to our vegetable processing facilities.
We still need other similar facilities before this work is completed.
Our new packing and distribution centre at the Hook of Holland is fully operational and is proving beneficial, particularly in the area of European produce and owers.
Meat production has been strengthened by the purchase of an existing abattoir and packing facility at Turriff, Aberdeenshire.
Agreement has been reached to purchase a further abattoir in the near future.
We are currently receiving very good support from suppliers who believe that a strong fourth retail food company is needed to ensure that the shopping public continues to enjoy an acceptable amount of choice.
Our support for British farmers and producers has been maintained although we work hard to ensure that our competitive position is not compromised.
Our larger share of the UK food market means that we will be subject to the Buying Code of Practice on which the OFT reported on 22 March.
We do not expect any difficulties in complying with this.
Good supplier relationships are just as vital to our business as loyal customers.
Store development programme During the period under review new Morrisons stores were opened at Kilmarnock, Wetherby, Hartlepool, Falkirk, Knottingley, Swansea and Denton.
Initial customer reaction has been favourable and good early sales levels have been achieved.
Our planned improvement of existing stores was maintained and in addition to the high standards of routine maintenance, major extensions and refurbishments were carried out at Harrogate and Boroughbridge stores.
Our plans for new store openings in 2005 are proceeding well and comprise Hamilton which opens in May, Auchinlea Park, Easterhouse June and Cardonald August both in Glasgow, Paisley September, Livingston October, Strood October, and Gloucester November.
Five of these stores replace former Safeway stores.
Our new store development programme for 2006 is taking shape with contracts exchanged and planning consent granted for new stores at Bristol, Leyland, Liverpool, Swadlincote, Wednesbury, Whiteeld and York.
The existing store at Crowborough will be demolished and redeveloped, as will our store in Rothwell.
This represents a good base going forward and I have no doubt further new sites will be forthcoming in due course.
Board changes On 21 May 2004 the company appointed David Jones, Chairman of Next Plc, and Duncan Davidson, Chairman of Persimmon Plc as non-executive directors.
Both have offered valuable advice during a difficult period.
Duncan has found that the time required to support us properly had impacted on his other duties and therefore he resigned from the Board on 23 March 2005.
I would like to express my appreciation for the help he gave us during his directorship.
I am pleased to report that David has agreed to become non-executive Deputy Chairman and will head up the nomination, remuneration and audit committees.
On 23 March 2005 Bob Stott was appointed as Chief Executive with Marie Melnyk becoming Managing Director with responsibility for trading and marketing.
Whilst the accounting problems at Safeway were not of his making, Martin Ackroyd has accepted full responsibility for the failure to keep full control during the year.
He offered to resign from the Board on 22 March due to unfounded press criticism which he believed was damaging the reputation of the company.
It was with deep regret that I accepted this request and have made it clear we would like him to remain with the company once his term of ofce runs out at the annual general meeting on 26 May 2005.
8 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Chairmans statement continued His stewardship of our accounts has been unblemished during his 31 years with the company, the last 18 as Financial Director and whatever his decision I would like to recognise his achievements and thank him for his contribution to our undoubted success over that period.
Current trading In the 6 weeks ending 13 March, like for like sales increase in the core Morrisons estate was 27% in total but down 12% excluding fuel.
This gure reects the impact of divested stores and the inevitable effect on sales at existing Morrisons stores as poorly performing Safeway stores convert to the successful Morrisons format.
By comparison, the 63 stores that were unaffected by adjacent conversion or divestment achieved a total like for like sales growth of 59% and 19% excluding fuel.
During the same period, it is pleasing to report that unconverted Safeway stores are, for the first time under our ownership, now showing an overall growth of 12%, although excluding fuel this is still a decline of 05%.
Moving on to the 80 converted Safeway stores sales excluding fuel are 113% above last year with a 218% increase in customer numbers.
ft. have increased from 1482 to 1780.
Total sales including fuel are 13% higher than last year.
Taken together, total group sales in the first six weeks of the current financial year are up 41% or 12% excluding fuel.
Outlook For the current financial year we are budgeting to maintain our turnover at around 123bn as the conversion programme moves forward, despite the full year impact of stores already divested.
Our first priority remains the protection of volume by ensuring a competitive basket for our customers.
In the near term improvement in gross margins will be constrained by industry conditions.
However, improved buying terms along with the investments in vertical integration are starting to come through to the benefit of gross margin.
In terms of operating costs, we will continue to incur dual running costs for distribution, administration and IT functions for much of the year.
Labour costs are also expected to remain high as a percentage of sales until the conversion stores reach maturity and are likely to increase near term.
Likewise, depreciation will also increase reecting capital expenditure.
Overall we expect operating margins to show some improvement in the current year, albeit modest and not apparent until the second half of the year.
Exceptional costs will reect the increased rate of conversions and are expected to be signicantly higher than the previous year.
2005 6 is the second and busiest year of the conversion programme.
By the end of the current year we will have in place the stores and most of the infrastructure to deliver Morrisons quality, value and service nationwide.
Based on the encouraging results which we have seen in the converted stores to date we remain confident of achieving a significant improvement in performance in 2006 7. Dividend The Directors are proposing a final ordinary dividend of 3075p per ordinary share making a total of 37p per ordinary share 2004 325p, an increase of 138%.
This will be paid on 31 May 2005 to those members registered in the books of the company on 29 April 2005.
Sir Kenneth Morrison CBE Chairman 23 March 2005 9
