WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:16 am Page 06 06 Chairmans statement Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chairmans statement Meeting customer needs today, building an organisation for the future John W Whybrow Chairman WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:16 am Page 07 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chairmans statement 07 The figures you see in this Annual Report represent yet another excellent He was succeeded by Robert Marchbank, a highly-qualified internal performance.
2004 05 was a year to remember, one where we achieved candidate for the post of Chief Executive Europe.
Rob has wide high levels of growth whilst also shaping the business for continued experience of Wolseley, through his time at Ferguson and at Group level success in the future.
in strategic and IT roles.
Robs understanding of the different cultures and businesses around the Group has enabled him to give immediate Although we made many acquisitions during the year and the Board leadership to the European organisation as it continues to evolve.
I look is delighted at the progress made in this regard, we are particularly forward to working more closely with Rob as he takes his place on a pleased with organic growth of 8.7% in sales.
In North America, our companies recorded remarkable achievements.
We have also announced a major change to your Board which will We further enhanced our leading positions with skill and commitment in take effect next year.
Charlie Banks will retire on 31 July 2006, after a positive market.
The American businesses performed well in delivering 39 years with the Company and will be succeeded by Chip Hornsby, strong organic growth and Ferguson started the successful roll-out Chief Executive North America.
Charlie has made an outstanding of the XpressNet branch concept and invested for future growth in contribution to the Group during his many years of service and has expanding our distribution network and new branches.
led the Company through an extensive period of growth and change since 2001.
We are pleased with the performance in the UK and Ireland, where we again achieved double-digit growth.
We completed the acquisition The Board is confident that Chip Hornsby will provide the Group of Brooks Group Limited in Ireland and it has been good to see the with the continuity the Company requires over the next phase of its business integrating so well into the Wolseley family.
In Continental development and will bring to the role clear leadership, vision and Europe, the operating companies generally performed well in flat commercial judgement.
I look forward to working with him in the coming years.
Organisational changes In recent months we have announced the establishment of the new Corporate governance remains an issue for all organisations, none more North American organisation, under the leadership of Chip Hornsby.
so than those like Wolseley which operate on more than one continent.
We now have two regional business structures, North America and We have continued to make good progress with compliance with the Europe, supported by Group management giving leadership in areas Sarbanes-Oxley Act, one of the most significant recent changes to such as strategy, mergers & acquisitions, finance and administration, American corporate law and we are on target for full implementation human resource management, purchasing, IT and legal.
This is a Group in the coming year.
structure towards which we have been working for some time.
It is a fine platform for the future, enabling us to exploit opportunities and synergies In conclusion, I would like to thank all of our stakeholders for their within each region as well as between regions, whilst still allowing support over the last year.
We rely on the goodwill and commitment of management to run their businesses locally and to recognise market our suppliers, customers and investors as we continue to maintain our opportunities within their own geographies.
In particular, I give special thanks to our 60,000 people, each of whom has played their part in this rewarding year.
Dividend With our earnings per share before goodwill amortisation rising We face the future with confidence.
Our proven strategy, strong local 14.8% to 85.93 pence, the Board is recommending a final dividend of businesses, supported by the North American, European and Group 17.6 pence, which represents a total dividend for the year of 26.4 pence.
organisations, will ensure that we continue to deliver growth and This is an increase of 10.9% over the total dividend paid last year.
improvement in the coming years.
The Board There have been three major changes to your Board during the year.
Early in the financial year, Jacques Descours stepped down from the Board ahead of his retirement from Wolseley in 2005.
Jacques brought great knowledge and experience to the boardroom and I would like to John W Whybrow place on record our appreciation of his hard work.
Chairman Grard Legtmann left the Group during the year to pursue other interests, having laid the foundations for the European organisation.
