Chairmans Statement Gerald Corbett Chairman This report marks a year of further The performance of our retail business progress for the Woolworths Group, was disappointing, with operating profit, although the performance of our retail before exceptional items of 60.9 million, businesses was disappointing.
Profit decreasing by 11.9 per cent to 40.7 before tax, exceptional items and million.
A solid performance over the goodwill amortisation, was 73.1 peak trading period in December and million, up 4.7 per cent on the prior January was not enough to offset the year.
Profit before tax decreased difficult trading experienced in October 57.4 million to 9.3 million reflecting and November and the ongoing cost of the impact of the exceptional costs the refurbishment programme.
However, of restructuring Woolworths big W. we were pleased with the progress made The adjusted basic earnings per in continuing to drive margin and improve share at 3.6 pence per share was up the operational efficiency of the business.
Basic earnings per share decreased to 0.1 pence per share, again The refurbished 10 10 stores continued as a result of the big W exceptional.
to perform ahead of the Mainchain in Earnings before interest, tax, terms of both sales and margin.
depreciation, amortisation and More importantly, we have learnt a lot exceptionals were 137.2 million 2004: during the year about what works 138.3 million.
It was another year of best in these stores in terms of space good cash generation with our financial allocation, store layout, point of sale, position further strengthened.
Net product mix and location.
These funds ended the year at 108.7 million, refinements will be incorporated into an improvement of 55.8 million on this years refit programme.
We continue the previous year.
to believe that refurbishments will be an important driver of future growth in the Mainchain.
As announced in March last year, our out-of-town format Woolworths big W, has been restructured to create Woolworths out-of-town.
We have made good progress on disposing of excess space and the leases on a number of stores have been assigned.
The stores we keep will be reduced to a size which we believe will provide the basis for a successful out-of-town proposition.
2Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 MVC, our chain of specialist entertainment Following the year-end, we received It remains our view that the actions shops, reduced its losses but overall an approach from Apax Partners, one we have taken to improve our retailing performance remained disappointing of Europes leading private equity firms, operations and to strengthen our with like-for-like sales falling 4.8 per cent.
which valued the Company at 58.2 pence entertainment business have established The Board is of the view that this per share including rights to all future a sound basis for further progress.
business does not represent a good use dividends.
The Board took the view that The High Street is becoming increasingly of the Groups capital and management the proposal was at an appropriate level to competitive and the outlook for consumer resource in the long term and the allow Apax to receive further information spending more uncertain than for some decision has therefore been taken to confirm their proposal.
However, we have a unique and to divest the business.
valuable brand in Woolworths, leading market positions in our core product Ultimately, Apax chose not to proceed with Progress during the year in our an offer and on 14 April 2005 your Board categories and substantial footfall in our stores each week.
The careful Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing announced that it was recommending division was particularly pleasing.
a final dividend of 1.26 pence per share.
management of stock and cost, further operating improvements, and the ongoing Operating profits increased by The full year dividend is therefore 1.65 16.8 per cent to 49.3 million before pence per share, an increase of 10 per investment in our core businesses, including store refurbishments, are the goodwill amortisation for the 2entertain cent on last year.
This increase maintains joint venture.
With a strengthened our policy of being in line with sector key tenets of our plans for future growth.
management team and following further average cover and reflects our strong systems investment, Entertainment UK cash generative qualities.
On behalf of the Board I would like to had another good year.
The business has thank all our colleagues for their hard broadened its customer base through work and efforts during the year.
After four very successful years as our new client wins, and expanded its Group Finance Director, Christopher product offering with further advances Rogers will be joining the Board of into book wholesaling and a move into Whitbread plc as Group Finance Director.
We wish him well and thank him for his outstanding contribution.
We have made VCI, our entertainment publishing good progress with our search for his Gerald Corbett business had a strong year.
In the last replacement and have seen a number Chairman quarter we combined the business with of excellent candidates.
The approach 22 March 2005 the video publishing operation of BBC from Apax has had a bearing on finalising Worldwide to form a joint venture, the appointment but we are confident 2entertain.
The new joint venture got off that we will be in a position to announce to a flying start with two of its titles being a new Finance Director soon.
in the DVD top ten over Christmas and this gives us confidence for the future growth prospects of this business.
Gerald Corbett Chairman 19 April 2005 Re-signed on 19 April 2005 to approve text dealing with final dividend.
3Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
