Overview a recent downturn in the Rail sector, I am pleased to report in my first which adversely impacted the profits statement since taking up the role of our Transport segment.
We believe as Chairman of Atkins that the Group that the Rail business will improve as has continued meeting its objective of even a conservative view of forecast improving margins, while increasing work expenditure for the sector indicates that in hand and generating cash.
Turnover the market will grow over the medium was, as expected, similar to last year as term.
Profits were also reduced by the we concentrated on improving the quality need to make additional provisions in of our earnings.
Adjusted profit before tax respect of some of our long term increased by 31% to 73.6m, while net facilities management contracts.
During the year Metronet continued Atkins capabilities are to plan, design to make progress with its day-to-day and enable a diverse range of capital operating performance.
The capital programmes on behalf of our clients.
We programme has, however, suffered believe that this is a strong business model significant delays which, if not recovered, 1 and that the Group is in a sound position will affect the first Periods 7 2 years Ed Wallis from which to generate growth.
A new Chief Executive has been Chairman appointed and Keith Clarke has taken on Results the role as Non-Executive Chairman on Most areas of the business produced behalf of the shareholders of Metronet.
good results for the year.
The emphasis on margin improvement has successfully delivered higher profits, especially in the Design and Engineering Solutions segment.
The good overall performance Chairmans statement was achieved despite the effects of Atkins capabilities are to plan, design and enable a diverse range of capital programmes on behalf of our clients.
We believe that this is a strong business model and that the Group is in a sound position from which to generate growth.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 12 People Board of Directors The quality of Atkins people underpins My predecessor as Chairman, the Groups success and reputation.
The Mike Jeffries, retired from the Board on attraction and retention of top quality staff 1 January 2005 after a career at Atkins is recognised as critical to the prosperity of spanning almost 30 years.
A great emphasis is therefore to the success of Atkins cannot be placed on the development and training overestimated and the Group owes him of staff, an area where we continually a great debt for his vision and leadership strive for improvement.
Our position over a long period.
as one of the countrys most favoured employers was confirmed by our inclusion Struan Robertson, our Senior Independent as one of the top 10 large company Director, has indicated that after nearly employers in a recent survey conducted six years of valuable service he will step by The Sunday Times.
down from the Board with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting I welcome this opportunity to thank all on 7 September 2005.
Mr Robertson of the Groups staff for their tremendous currently also serves as Chairman of the contribution to the success of the business Remuneration Committee and on the over the past year.
Audit and Nomination Committees and will also stand down from these positions on the same date.
Our thanks go to Mr Robertson for his outstanding commitment over his many years on the Atkins Board.
Dividend In view of the Boards confidence in the prospects of the Group, it is recommending payment of a final dividend of 8.0p.
This makes the total dividend for the year 12.0p 2004: 9.0p, an increase of 33%.
Ed Wallis Chairman The attraction 21 June 2005 and retention of top quality staff is recognised as critical to the prosperity of the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 13
