com is the website of Yellow Book, featuring more In the US, Yellow Book is an independent publisher of than 570,000 advertisements, 31 million business listings and classified telephone directories, that is, a publisher without more than 107 million residential listings.
ties to a parent telephone operating company.
We are the largest independent publisher and have a 47% share of the Yellow Pages 118 24 7 is our operator-assisted phone-based independent sector which was worth $2.5 billion in 2004. directory information service.
Launched in 2003 to replace We compete predominantly with telephone directories Talking Pages, the service is firmly established as a niche published by the Regional Bell Operating Companies and by player.
In FY05 we received 7.2 million calls and featured other large former telecom companies, collectively known as more than 70,000 listed advertisers.
incumbents, as well as with other independent publishers.
Business Pages is our printed business-to-business directory The total US classified telephone directories sector of the covering England, Scotland and Wales.
In FY05 we published classified advertising market was worth $15 billion in 2004. nine editions and distributed 2.2 million copies.
By realising our goals and In the US and the UK we operate in the classified advertising maintaining the highest standards of market where we compete with a range of media such as other printed directories, local and national newspapers, corporate responsibility, we will online directories and providers of business and residential deliver real value to our users and information over the phone.
In 2004 this market was worth $34.0 billion in the US and 4.4 billion in the UK.
Despite advertisers, our people, our increased competition, in the UK we have maintained our classified advertising market share at around 15% for more shareholders and the communities in than five years.
The majority of our advertisers are small which we operate businesses employing fewer than ten people.
US UK 53% Other independent publishers $2.5bn 4.4bn $15.0bn Total independent Total classified Total classified classified telephone advertising revenues telephone directory directory reveues reveues 47% Yellow Book 81% 2.5% 16.5% 85% 15% Incumbent Online Independent Other Yell UK publishers publishers publishers classified advertising YELL GROUP PLC... achieving excellent results Meet Greg Greg Johnson Senior Account Manager, Yellow Book In my 20 years experience of selling Yellow Book advertising I havent found two customers that are the same, but they all want the same thing great results from their advertising.
What motivates me is the satisfaction and reward I get from bringing success to my customers.
