Operating and financial review Chairmans letter Dick Olver Chairman The executive team and all employees have demonstrated their ability to deliver results and I applaud their hard work and dedication.
4 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 With a combination of effective Peter Weinberg was a senior director of With regard to the statutory reporting strategy, continued good programme Goldman Sachs Inc. and is a dual US UK requirements, the Operating and Financial execution and achievement of key citizen: Phil Carroll is the former chairman Review OFR has been prepared with business objectives, including a and chief executive officer of Fluor regard to best practice as established focus on winning future business, Corporation and is a US citizen: and Roberto by the Accounting Standards Board.
2005 was a successful year for Quarta is the chairman of BBA Group plc, a Whilst there is continued public debate BAE Systems.
partner of the private equity firm Clayton, about the future of the OFR, it is my Dubilier & Rice and a dual US Italian citizen.
belief that its fundamental elements I believe that BAE Systems has evolved are appreciated and valued by shareholders.
a comprehensive and robust process for With the addition of these three new We shall continue to aspire to be in the developing strategy, including appropriate directors, the Board is well equipped to forefront of developments in this area.
review and challenge by the Board.
The monitor performance and oversee the Companys strategy, described in detail later Companys future strategic development.
The executive team and all employees in this report, reflects the accomplishment have demonstrated their ability to deliver of key objectives in 2005 and establishes Social, environmental and ethical aspects results and I applaud their hard work the framework for continued performance of a companys business operations and dedication.
Looking forward, the improvement and growth in future.
are increasingly of interest to a broad Company will be operating in a time of stakeholder community.
In order to challenging defence budgets and our There were several noteworthy advance our leadership in this area, the top priority is to deliver continuing developments over the past twelve Board has established a new Corporate performance improvement.
months: first, the acquisition of United Responsibility Committee chaired by Peter Defense in June was a step change in the Weinberg.
A summary of the Companys The Board is recommending an increased implementation of our US strategy and corporate responsibility performance is final dividend of 6.3p per share, making establishes BAE Systems as the worlds included in this Report, supplemented a total of 10.3p for the year.
At this level second largest land systems company: by a detailed Corporate Responsibility the annual dividend is covered 2.2 times second, the Understanding Document Report for 2005, published separately.
by underlying earnings from continuing signed between the governments of operations 2004 1.8 times.
Subject to the UK and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia The Board is also responsible for setting shareholder approval at the 2006 Annual establishes a framework for modernising realistic, yet stretching, targets for General Meeting, the dividend will be paid the Saudi armed forces, including the management with appropriate incentives on 1 June 2006 to holders of ordinary supply of Typhoon aircraft: and finally, for both baseline and stretch performance.
shares registered on 21 April 2006. the publication in December of the UK These targets include both financial and governments Defence Industrial Strategy non-financial objectives and further details recognised the key position of the UK are included in the Remuneration Report.
defence industry in supporting the UKs armed forces.
These developments, We are fortunate to live in a time when combined with good progress on resolving continued advances in healthcare enable pension funding issues and good project us all to live longer.
Unfortunately, because execution combined to make 2005 a of this increased longevity and reducing Dick Olver landmark year for BAE Systems.
discount rates in recent years the Chairman Companys pension funds have faced In addition to overseeing Company strategy, actuarial deficits, as have the funds of 22 February 2006 the Board is responsible for monitoring many other companies.
the Companys performance, maintaining the governance framework, overseeing I am pleased to report that the Company succession planning for the Board and has now made considerable progress in senior executives, setting appropriate resolving these pension funding issues.
standards of conduct and monitoring compliance with those standards.
As the UKs largest manufacturing employer it is particularly important Part of my role as Chairman is to ensure the to find the right balance of measures to Board has the required skills and experience resolve the pension deficit.
The executive to carry out these responsibilities in a large team, trustees, employees and trades international business.
With the increasing unions have approached this difficult issue importance of BAE Systems operations in constructively through the course of the the United States, which now manage 35% year with the aim of delivering an outcome of sales, we have appointed three new nonthat is acceptable to employees, affordable executive directors to the Board to provide for the Company and delivers forward further US perspective and experience.
