Chairmans statement Sir David John The Company continued to make very satisfactory progress during 2005.
We remain committed to the continuous improvement of all aspects of our performance as a business.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 12 The Company in 2005 We continued to make progress in the quality of Steven Marshall joined the Board as a non-executive I am pleased to say that the Company continued our risk management.
Our everyday currency is in Director on 1 November 2005.
Steven has held board to make very satisfactory progress during 2005. identifying, mitigating, pricing and managing risks positions in three major PLCs and has extensive senior Profits and earnings moved ahead.
Operating cash of all shapes and sizes.
We continue to improve in management experience at three others.
He brings flows were strong and fully backed our profits.
comprehensive experience both as an executive and Our balance sheet is strong.
Our order books It was gratifying to be voted the most admired non-executive director and is thoroughly familiar with continued to expand.
contruction company in the 2005 Management Today construction and support services.
The proportion of our business deriving survey and to be the 20th most admired quoted The particular areas of expertise of each of from long-term partnerships and alliances with company overall in the UK.
the Directors is shown on pages 38 and 39 and in major customers who rely on us for an increasing the Directors Report.
Strategy range and depth of expertise continued to grow.
We service markets which are largely conditioned People As a result, our revenues and profits are becoming by GDP growth rates.
In order to grow our business Our continued leadership in infrastructure markets more sustainable and have better long-term at rates acceptable to our shareholders, we need depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate forward visibility.
both a clear picture of our own strengths and key the best people.
This year, we have thoroughly Our performance in non-financial terms also differentiators and the financial flexibility to take updated our succession plan and are improving our showed significant improvements.
Our accident opportunities to change and develop the business recruitment and rentention methods to ensure we can frequency rate fell to a new low.
Our measures mix so as to lead in superior growth markets.
continue to meet the challenge of growth.
We have a to reduce our contribution to global warming, In conjunction with the new Chief Executive, strong cadre of talented, highly motivated employees our generation of waste and our energy consumption and senior Group management, the Boards principal upon whose efforts the success of the business rests.
all showed the positive signs of the close management focus this year has been a major strategic review.
I am sure that, once again, shareholders will wish to attention which they receive.
Our fifth Safety, This has not been an exercise in blue-sky thinking, join me in thanking all of our people for their efforts Environment and Social Report will be published but a thorough, detailed analysis of what makes and achievements in 2005. in May.
us successful and in which business areas we should Although the beginning of the year marked The future be concentrating our financial and management a change in Chief Executive, there has been no We remain committed to the continuous improvement capital.
Ian Tyler describes the principal outcomes deviation from our core principles.
We remain of all aspects of our performance as a business.
of this exercise in his Chief Executives Review.
careful in our selection of what to bid and how to We believe that shareholder value will continue I believe the review has given us a clear way bid it: proud of our first-class project management, to grow in 2006. forward and will help ensure we continue to deliver the quality of our engineering judgements and our shareholder value growth.
We continue to focus very closely on the management of cash.
The Board We are, as a group, very much aware of the In December, Group Managing Director, Alistair full range of responsibilities which we have in running Wivell, CBE, retired from the Board and the Company and growing our business.
In 2005, we restated after 42 years service to the Group.
He made an Sir David John KCMG Chairman and recommunicated our core principles and the enormous contribution to Balfour Beatty and we commitments we make to all our stakeholders.
thank him sincerely for his efforts and offer him We also made clear what is expected of both every good wish for his retirement.
individual employees and our operating companies During the year, both Richard Delbridge and in terms of their responsibilities and behaviour.
Sir David Wright also announced their retirement as non-executive Directors.
Both made a substantial contribution to the affairs of the Group and leave with both our thanks and our good wishes.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 13
