Chairmans Statement CROP MARK ONLY.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts CHAIRMANS STATEMENT INTRODUCTION The significant feature in 2005 has been the agreement to extend all the leases held at Spring Gardens by the I am pleased to report that the Company has grown from Home Office to a term of 20 years.
This government strength to strength during 2005. tenant now occupies the entire estate following our We discuss our financial results in detail in the Financial relocation to Victoria in order to accommodate their Review, however I summarise below the key elements of expansion requirements.
The lease extensions are our performance in the year.
conditional upon our completion of two further infills comprising 2,503 sq m 26,945 sq ft, the construction of Adjusted net asset value NAV per share has increased which is due to complete in March 2007.
When completed from 522.3 pence by 16.2 per cent to 606.9 pence, this the annual rent generated will be 6.3 million per annum.
having been achieved despite an adverse foreign exchange translation movement of 13.5 pence.
The calculation of UK JOINT VENTURES We are working closely together adjusted NAV is based on the net assets of the Group with our joint venture partners to secure pre-lettings of excluding the provision for deferred tax, amounting to office space at both London Bridge Tower The Shard of 132.1 million, divided by the shares in issue excluding Glass and at New London Bridge House, for which a treasury shares, being 80,057,687. striking Renzo Piano design has been submitted to the planning authorities.
We are hoping to make significant This is the tenth year in succession that our NAV per letting progress in respect of both of these projects in share has increased, showing an average growth rate of the coming year.
16.6 per cent compound per annum.
SWEDEN During 2005 we completed the refurbishment Statutory NAV per share, which includes the full works at Solna Business Park to 24,000 sq m 259,400 sq ft provision for deferred tax of 132.1 million as required of space at Frsaren 12, to enable ICA, the largest food by International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, retailer in Scandinavia, to take occupation of their head increased from 386.2 pence by 14.4 per cent to 441.9 pence.
office and supermarket, in accordance with a demanding Profit before taxation, which under IFRS now includes the budget and programme.
increase in the fair value of our property assets, increased Additionally, we completed both the internal refurbishment from 60.1 million by 40.9 per cent to 84.7 million.
works to Smeden and to its award winning 250 metre long The fair value increase in the property assets in the year uplit faade, enclosed within a glass envelope.
The major was 67.2 million, an increase of 80.6 per cent on the challenge for us at Solna is to let the recently vacated uplift in the previous year.
areas at Sliparen 2 representing 10,672 sq m 114,874 sq ft, 8.1 per cent of space at Solna, and to let the rest of the BUSINESS REVIEW 2005 vacant space within the development, representing The business has continued to perform consistently well 20,324 sq m 218,772 sq ft. across each of our divisions although market conditions In early February 2006 we took advantage of the strong have varied across operating regions.
investment market in Sweden and sold our portfolio of UK Investment yields have sharpened during 2005 with 1,280 apartments and 42,608 sq m 458,644 sq ft of prime yields falling to below 5 per cent in the London commercial and retail space to a major local landlord market, less than the cost of borrowing in the UK.
specialising in local residential estates, for a price of The weight of money in the market is likely to continue 39.9 million SEK 547 million, in line with our year end to exert downward pressure on investment yields.
These properties were purchased in January 2005 we took advantage of the strong market and sold 2002 for 29.4 million SEK 440 million.
Carlow House and New London House for 32.2 million CONTINENTAL EUROPE French property comprises the at a profit of 1.5 million over and above the half year majority of the portfolio in Continental Europe and this valuation.
We continue to look for good quality assets with division has made a substantial contribution to our opportunities for growth although we will not sacrifice our underlying profit before tax, amounting to 14.5 million underlying investment principles.
In addition, the increase in fair value of this The main priority in the UK is to actively manage our existing portfolio during the year was 33.2 million a48.5 million.
properties to ensure maximum value is achieved.
The letting The French letting market was relatively healthy during market has continued to prove challenging, however despite 2005 with take-up of space in Paris of 2.2 million sq m space having become available at Vista Office Centre and 23.4 million sq ft, over 12 per cent up on 2004, keeping Chancel House we have contained our UK vacancy rate at pace with the supply of new space coming onto the 5.3 per cent.
In addition, a further 4,587 sq m 49,374 sq ft market.
The overall market vacancy rate in the Paris area is under refurbishment at Great West House, representing was 5.8 per cent, slightly down on the previous year.
2.9 per cent of space in the UK portfolio.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Our vacancy rate at the year end was 6.4 per cent by The gearing of our investments with initial loan to area of the French portfolio, which was largely due to values generally at or above 75 per cent, borrowing the vacant 6,026 sq m 64,864 sq ft Le 41 building.
from well respected banking institutions in the This building was sold in January 2006 and the residual currency of the asset in order to limit foreign vacancy rate of the entire French portfolio is now just exchange exposure.
Investment with a view to adding long-term value to EQUITY INVESTMENTS During the first half of the year our property portfolio.
We do this by providing good we sold one of our unlisted investments, Sit-up TV service and developing close relationships with our producing a profit of 1.6 million on the transaction.
suppliers and tenants and where appropriate carry out major refurbishment works to properties and Following our decision to sell our cable businesses, construction of new offices, using our own in-house we sold the assets of WightCable Limited at the end development teams.
In this way we aim to establish of December 2005 and the sale of the assets of long-term tenants.
WightCable North Limited was completed in mid January 2006.
The cable company results are shown The ability to act with speed to new opportunities, as discontinued operations and amounted to a loss of having access to strong cash reserves.
As a result of the sale of these assets, seek out new opportunities where we see good the group has realised the residual capital allowances returns coupled with acceptable levels of risk.
The careful assessment of risk and where appropriate Our equity investment portfolio was valued at 13.7 million use of hedging instruments to protect ourselves from at 31 December 2005, representing 1.1 per cent of the potential adverse consequences.
We will closely monitor those investments in our portfolio that have potential to perform THE FUTURE well but conversely, we will not fund enterprises that GERMANY In the summer of 2005 we took the decision continue to under-perform.
to invest in Germany, a market where we can see good returns being achieved on selective purchases.
The OUTLINE STRATEGY groundwork of careful research and the development of The continuing strategy of the Group will be to invest in business relationships with local professional advisers modern, well-let properties that generate good returns on enabled us to successfully commence the establishment capital employed in markets that we know and understand.
of a German portfolio by completing the purchase of two small properties at the end of the year.
The strategic principles by which we operate are outlined below: Since then we have contracted to purchase two further properties to the value of 45.1 million a65.6 million To invest in good quality, modern buildings that are generating a return on equity of 20 per cent.
Upon generally located in strategically well placed completion of these contracted purchases we will hold secondary office locations just outside the central five properties in Germany to the value of 57.7 million business district of major cities.
To operate in European markets that we know and It is our intention to build up a high quality portfolio in understand.
This has been the UK, Sweden and Germany in excess of a300 million in selected major cities.
France and we will include Germany within our core investment regions in 2006.
UK In the UK we will work hard in 2006 to complete the refurbishment and letting of Great West House and to To establish offices in each country in which we continue to reduce other vacant space within the portfolio.
operate, employing local, well qualified, highly We are also evaluating the potential development of a motivated professional staff.
number of other property assets we hold in order to add The application of strict investment criteria to new value to our investment portfolio.
property purchases, taking into account the yield, strength of tenant covenants, lease lengths, reliability and the projected return on equity and return on cash over five and ten years.
10 Rue Raspail, Ivry sur Seine, Paris CROP MARK ONLY.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued As mentioned above, together with our joint venture TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN five years to 31 December 2005 partners, we are preparing to develop The Shard and New London Bridge House.
These are significant projects in their own right and we recognise it is absolutely critical CLS Holdings Tot Return Ind to ensure that we assemble the right blend of expertise FTSE Real Estate Tot Return Ind 300 FTSE All Share Tot Return Ind and experience within the development team, together with the appropriate combination of financing and secure 240 anchor pre-lets to quality tenants before commencing construction.
It is our intention to limit the amount of 180 equity contribution we are exposed to on these projects.
SWEDEN Our major challenge is to capitalise on the 120 brand image and concept of Solna Business Park by letting all remaining space, optimise its value and to 60 secure the future of the areas currently occupied by the university at Vnerparken.
In this respect we are working 0 closely with the local authority at Vnersborg.
FRANCE It is our intention to expand our portfolio along the lines of our existing model, seeking opportunities Source: Datastream both within Paris and other selected major cities.
Over the last 10 years, we have distributed 90.7 million ORGANISATION We have now laid down a strong to shareholders through tender offer buy-backs and a organisation headed by Per Sjberg who took up the post further 15.9 million by dividend payments.
A further of Chief Executive Officer on 1 January 2006.
We have 37.7 million was paid to shareholders through market experienced teams on the ground in each of our core purchases, in all a total of 144.3 million paid to operating regions and we are fully confident that they will shareholders.
achieve the clear goals we have identified.
We now have substantial cash reserves and have ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ISSUES We not only think demonstrated consistently strong performance over the that it is socially responsible to take environmental issues years.
There is still a 10.0 per cent discount between seriously, we also think that in an age of rising energy NAV per share and share price, we therefore propose to costs it also makes commercial good sense.
We are recommend a tender offer buy-back of 1 in 42 shares therefore purposely seeking out innovative green at 600 pence per share.
This, together with the interim solutions to the design of new and refurbished buildings tender offer will result in a total distribution for the year we are contemplating and have already been awarded the of 22.8 pence per share, an increase of 18.1 per cent over environmental P mark standard for developing green the previous year.
energy efficient properties in the refurbishment of our My fellow directors and I would particularly like to thank Solna complex.
our staff for their dedication and hard work during the It has also been pleasing to see the complete year, we would also like to thank our advisers for their transformation of the Solna Business Park area of professionalism and creativity and our shareholders for Stockholm from a run-down drab industrial area to a the encouragement and support that they have given to vibrant modern environment with in excess of 10,000 the Company.
visitors a day to its offices, supermarket, hotel, gym and We have concluded a successful year and look forward to other leisure facilities.
It is our intention to bring a similar an exciting future.
transformation to the London Bridge quarter.
PERFORMANCE FOR INVESTORS Over the last five years adjusted net assets per share has grown from 325.5 pence per share to 606.9 pence per share, an increase of 86.5 per cent.
The total return to shareholders, which takes account of NAV growth and Sten Mortstedt distributions showed an average annual compound Executive Chairman growth of 20.5 per cent.
24 March 2006 The total return to CLS investors in the year has been 22.7 per cent Source: Thomson Data Stream.
11 Dec-00 June Dec-01 June Dec-03 June Dec-03 June Dec-04 June Dec-05
