chairmans statement Charles Toner, Group Chairman, Barratt Developments PLC.
I am very pleased to report that, notwithstanding the challenging market conditions throughout the year, the Group achieved further growth in volume and margins producing a record 406.6m pre-tax profit.
This was our 13th consecutive year of organic growth and we continue to build more homes in total and more homes on brownfield sites than any other housebuilder in Britain.
We are also well positioned for the payable on 18 November 2005 to... the Group future, having ended the financial shareholders on the register on 21 October 2005, against 14.68p the year with healthy forward sales of achieved previous year.
With further sales progress dividend for the year of 26.98p, since 1st July 2005, forward sales further growth an increase of 25%, 4.6 times now stand at 900m which, together covered.
This increase reflects our with completions to date, already in volume progress and the Boards secures 52% of our full year confidence in the future requirement.
and margins performance of the Group.
Key features of the results for the Net cash in hand at the year end producing year ended 30th June 2005 are as was 276.9m 2004: 189.7m follows:- cash in hand with an average a record gearing over the year of just 2%.
Group pre-tax profit amounted to This was achieved notwithstanding 406.6m against 367.7m the 406.6m a 234.0m increased investment previous year, an increase of 11%.
in land stocks and work in pre-tax UK pre-tax profit, before the progress.
exceptional item of 15.9m from On 30 August 2004 we completed profit.
the disposal of ground rents, was the disposal of our small Southern 390.7m compared to 358.3m California operation, for net the previous year, up 9%.
proceeds of 85m, in line with the Basic earnings per share Groups strategy to focus on our amounted to 123.6p against UK operations.
111.4p the previous year, an Return on average capital increase of 11%.
employed continued to be A final dividend of 17.99p per amongst the highest in the industry share will be recommended, at 31% 2004: 37%.
A development of 24 apartments, carefully designed to cover the footprint of a retirement home which previously occupied the site.
These robust results demonstrate the teams throughout the Group, both product range, together with our continued success of our organic office and site based, for all their urban regeneration and social growth strategy and the fundamental hard work.
Our record performance housing expertise, all contributed to strengths of our Group.
is a result of their teamwork, skills a good result for the year.
core strengths, together with our The medium and long term healthy forward sales, strong fundamentals of the housing market We are pleased to welcome a new finances and experienced remain sound, bolstered by a Non-Executive Director, Mr Bill management team, leave us well continuing serious shortage of new Shannon, who joined the Board in positioned for the future and able to homes due to the very slow planning September.
Mr Shannon has had a quickly respond as market conditions system.
The economic outlook in the long and distinguished career with improve.
short term, however, remains Whitbread PLC, serving as an uncertain notwithstanding the recent Executive Director between 1994 0.25% cut in interest rates.
He is also a Nonover nine months of our financial Executive Director of Aegon UK PLC year yet to run it is, therefore, too and Matalan PLC and brings with early to accurately assess the market him a wealth of experience in the for the year ahead, although we are business sector.
well placed to achieve further growth Looking ahead, we are well placed in completions if market conditions to continue to progress.
short term economic uncertainties, Our experienced management team our long term strategy remains across Britain has, once again, unchanged and undoubtedly there demonstrated its ability to succeed in will be many growth opportunities a very competitive market place.
Our wide Charles Toner, I would like to thank all of our local geographic spread and extensive Group Chairman 28 September 2005 5
