BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Financial Results 2005 continued to see strong revenue growth of 10 per cent for We extend our thanks to our 14,100 employees who make up the Group to 1.5 billion.
This is reflected in the performance of the success of BBA.
We are appreciative of their hard work both our divisions.
Underlying operating profits were up 2 per and efforts.
cent to 130 million with 9 per cent growth in aviation offset partially by a continued increase in raw material prices in Corporate Social Responsibility Fiberweb, our materials technology division.
After restructuring BBA continues to take its role as a responsible corporate citizen costs and non-recurring items, operating profit from continuing seriously.
During 2005, our CSR Committee embarked on a operations for the year was 81 million.
After preference share number of initiatives, including the assembly of CSR metrics for conversion, and higher interest rates, particularly in the USA, our businesses, that will be used as guidance by our companies mitigated by a lower tax rate, we are able to report adjusted on important issues such as workplace diversity and equal earnings per share from continuing operations of 17.9 pence employment opportunities.
In addition, a detailed review of our [2004: 18.3 pence].
Group Legal Policies Manual was carried out during the year.
The policies contained in this Manual set the benchmark for Acquisitions responsible and mandatory business conduct within the Group.
During the year the Group continued its strategy to enhance market position and global presence in Aviation Services and We are also proud of the efforts and support our companies and we invested 28 million in a number of bolt-on acquisitions and its people gave to their communities that were affected by the 73 million in capital expenditure.
Strategic disposals resulted devastating hurricanes in 2005.
Actions included matching in a cash inflow of 47 million.
charitable donations and the contribution of products and services in support of relief efforts in the Gulf Coast region.
Dividends Following the interim dividend of 3.5 pence, paid on 4 November In 2005, BBA repeated its participation in the Business in the 2005, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.3 pence Community BitC Corporate Responsibility Index.
As we begin to [2004: 7.95 pence] payable on 22 May 2006 to shareholders on reap the benefits of our various CSR initiatives and programmes, the register at 18 April 2006.
This will result in total dividends we hope to see improved placement.
Our fourth Annual CSR for 2005 of 11.8 pence [2004: 11.3 pence].
report was published during the year and can be found on our website at www.
Board and People We announced on 28 February 2006 that Roy McGlone had Outlook stepped down as Group CEO by mutual agreement.
Michael During the year we made an important announcement about the Harper replaces him as interim CEO until a permanent future direction of the Group.
As a Board we recognise that successor is appointed.
Michael joined the Board as a nonhaving built two highly successful, but individual businesses, the executive director in February 2005 and is the former Chief time has come when we believe shareholders best interests will Executive of Kidde Group plc.
be served by focusing the future of each of our divisions independently.
We look forward to the next year with continued We thank Roy for his contribution over 10 years, first as Finance confidence.
Director and then, from 2001, as Chief Executive.
He has led the Company successfully through some difficult times.
However, BBA is undergoing significant change and both the Board and Roy believe the Company needs a different kind of leadership as it separates Fiberweb and concentrates on Aviation Services.
Roberto Quarta Chairman At senior management level, Daniel Dayan joined us as CEO of BBA Fiberweb Division in June last year.
