Chairmans statement 2005 was a tremendously exciting year for all of us at Mapeley.
One source of excitement was, of course, the Companys initial public offering on 21 June 2005, when we listed our shares on the London Stock Exchange under the symbol MAY.
In addition, we are just as proud of the many other accomplishments that led to this listing.
We have built a dynamic real estate operating business with an exceptional management team.
With over 1,650 properties totalling over 23 million deliver stable and growing dividends to stockholders.
square feet of office space, leased primarily to central Growth for Mapeley will primarily come in two and local governments and large corporate tenants, forms first, growing our revenues faster than our we operate with a truly national footprint.
We control expenses and second, making new asset investments assets in virtually every city and town in the UK, at yields higher than our cost of capital.
which gives us great access to critical information in Although it is early in Mapeleys life as a public the most relevant markets.
We believe this gives us a company, we have already seen tangible results from competitive advantage in acquisitions, which is a key this strategy.
Our annualised dividend at the time we component of our business plan.
went public in June was 120 pence per share.
We increased Another critical element of our business plan is our annualised dividend in the third quarter to 132 transparency.
I believe that the best proxy for earnings pence per share and further increased it to 148 pence is dividends, which provide a clear window into per share in the fourth quarter.
Distributing out substantially increase in just the last six months.
what one earns also imposes a terrific investment I believe the business prospects for Mapeley are truly discipline with respect to new acquisitions, as periodically excellent and we are all focused on the growth and we must return to the capital markets to finance our stability of this business.
We will continue our quest new investments.
to build Mapeley into the best publicly traded UK real Like many businesses I invest in, Mapeley will pay estate owner and operator.
With a solid investment out substantially all of its earnings.
Our objective is to portfolio and excellent prospects for new investments, we believe that our disciplined business model and focus on long-term profitability will continue to attract investor interest and set us apart in the years to come.
Thank you for your continued commitment and support.
Wesley R Edens, Chairman Annualised dividend is the dividend declared for a quarter times four.
Above: Castle Meadow, Nottingham Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 03
