Minerva plc 02 Annual report and accounts 2005 Chairmans statement Introduction When we announced our interim results in March of this year the Board resolved to make a major ANDREW strategic repositioning of the Company and set out the milestones for a clear and positive future ROSENFELD focused entirely on our core real estate activities.
We set out our main objectives for taking the Company forward which centred upon four key elements, namely, adding breadth and depth to the Board, unlocking value from our development assets, disposing of properties from our investment portfolio, and nally, addressing the issues of reporting and transparency.
We recognised that the Company needed to undergo a major reorientation in order to generate growth from our development portfolio and to re-energise our activities in what is quite clearly an increasingly vibrant domestic commercial property market.
WE IDENTIFIED THE NEED TO ADAPT THE BUSINESS, AND HAVE ACTED QUICKLY.
As is often the case with such a repositioning there has been a significant one-off financial impact which now enables us to move forward with clarity and consistency having taken the full and final write down for our investment in Scarlett Retail and having included the costs incurred in disposing of 405 million of investment property at the year end.
Final results Before I address the progress that we have made in meeting our four objectives, I would like to turn to our financial results for the year ended 30 June 2005.
Minerva plc 03 Annual report and accounts 2005 profit before tax and exceptional items for The Walbrook and The Minerva Building and the year was 1.0 million 2004: 0.7 million.
our shopping centre development, Park Place.
Exceptional items of 50.2 million have been These factors combined with his exceptional incurred during the year.
Of this amount leadership qualities will ensure the successful 21.9 million related to the write down of the future progress of Minerva.
Groups investment in, and loan to, Scarlett In March we also announced the appointment Retail which was included in our results for of Ivan Ezekiel to the main Board as Finance the half year ended 31 December 2004.
Ivan joined Minerva in 1997 and has The balance of 28.3 million is principally been responsible for Minervas finance activities.
represented by xed loan and swap break His financial skills and understanding of the costs relating to the termination of loans real estate sector will continue to provide the secured on the investment properties that have Group with an important dimension as we now been sold and disposal expenses incurred.
embark upon what will be an increasingly active After incorporating these exceptional items, programme of development and investment in the loss after tax for the Group was 44.4 million new assets.
Primarily as a consequence of these exceptional items, the net asset value In August the Company announced that Paul per share has fallen from 379.5 pence per share Coster would be retiring on 30 September 2005. to 344.2 pence per share.
Paul has been a valued member of the Board for nearly 16 years and has been deeply Your Board is nevertheless pleased to recommend involved in all activities of the Group.
He has a final dividend of 2.16 pence per share making worked tirelessly on Park Place as the driving a total dividend for the year of 3.25 pence per force behind the creation of one of the UKs share, an increase of 1.6 per cent compared foremost shopping centre development projects.
Subject to approval at the Annual I would like to thank Paul for his commitment General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid and loyalty to the Company and we all wish on 8 December 2005 to those shareholders him well for the future.
on the register at the close of business on 30 September 2005.
It has become quite clear that a coordinated approach to our development programme is I would now like to turn to the repositioning required and in order to achieve this we have of the Company which I am pleased to report appointed Tim Garnham to the Board as is taking place with increasing momentum.
Tim joined Minerva from Trafalgar House in 1998 and has Board changes been responsible for all of our development Pivotal to the activities of the Group has been activities including our two City developments, the appointment in May of Salmaan Hasan The Walbrook and The Minerva Building.
as our new Chief Executive.
Salmaan joined He has also worked closely with Paul Coster Minerva from Deutsche Postbank where he on the Park Place development and has been was Head of Property Finance having previously instrumental in the joint venture arrangements pursued an impressive career with Samuel with Lend Lease.
Tim brings to the Board a Montagu, Industrial Bank of Japan and BHF wealth of development experience and will Bank.
He possesses a rare combination of be responsible for consolidating the Groups strong financial and real estate experience current and future development projects.
and has a longstanding detailed knowledge of Minervas business having been involved in nancing a number of Minervas core assets including our ofce developments, Continued Chairmans statement continued Minerva plc 04 Annual report and accounts 2005 Turning now to the appointment of our new With the occupational market in the City showing non-executive Director, I am pleased to report clear signs of improvement, I am confident that that Christopher Mackenzie has joined the this agreement will now enable us to unlock Board.
He has an extensive and broad range the considerable development potential that is of experience working in the early part of his inherent within this site.
With this in mind we career at Swires, McKinsey and JPMorgan.
have announced our intention to commence In the late 1980s he joined Schroders where this development during the course of 2006, he was involved in the creation of its investment if necessary on a speculative basis.
In this regard banking business in Japan.
In 1994 he became we are in discussions for the nancing of this President of GE Capital Europe joining the development on a non-recourse basis which main Board of GE Capital in 1998, responsible will limit Minervas further equity investment.
In 2000 he In July we announced that subject to, and was appointed President and Chief Executive conditional upon shareholder approval, Minerva officer of Canadian real estate group TrizecHahn have entered into an agreement with Lend where he was responsible for refocusing the Lease for the development of Park Place, a company on its core real estate business, major new 900,000 sq.
ft. retail development improving operating efficiency, streamlining situated in Croydon town centre.
I am pleased overhead structure and creating a single to confirm that shareholder approval has now operating platform culminating in the creation been obtained and this project is proceeding of a US quoted REIT, Trizec Properties.
with Lend Lease as planned.
Under the terms Having reorganised Trizecs operations he has of the agreement Lend Lease will be responsible since concentrated his activities in the private for the development and asset management of equity arena, including property.
He holds a the project and will have the right, one year after number of non-executive board appointments practical completion of Park Place, to acquire including the leading media marketing 50 per cent of the units in the newly created group WPP.
Jersey unit trust which will hold the completed I could not let this moment pass without making development.
The agreement with Lend Lease reference to Sir David Garrard who retired as is a major step forward for Minerva and is the Chairman in March.
David made an enormous culmination of many years hard work.
I am contribution to the Group and we wish him confident that the reputation and experience every happiness in his retirement.
of Lend Lease will have undoubted advantages for Minerva not only through the development Unlocking value from our development assets process but also in maximising the projects In June we announced the restructuring of future performance as an investment asset.
our property interests with Barclays Bank at We are also now focusing closely on what is St. Swithins House and Granite House which potentially our most exciting project, namely will enable Minerva to secure vacant possession The Minerva Building.
This headquarters ofce for the redevelopment of a major 452,000 sq.
ft. development designed by architects Grimshaw prime ofce development designed by Foster will have a world-class status and will offer a and Partners, to be known as The Walbrook.
form and content hitherto not provided in the The agreement enables Minerva to require City of London.
The team at Minerva is in the Barclays to surrender its lease at any time process of rening its plans for this project up to 31 December 2006.
Upon exercise of and as the occupational market continues to the option, Barclays Bank will pay Minerva strengthen the prospect of significant asset a significant reverse premium.
enhancement through redevelopment moves ever closer.
Minerva plc 05 Annual report and accounts 2005 Disposal of investment assets Shaped for growth Since March we have embarked upon an active As is evident from all that I say above the disposal programme which, including the post team at Minerva has moved remarkably quickly balance sheet sale of Sampson House and in addressing the key objectives that were Ludgate House, has culminated in the sale set by the Board earlier this year.
Through a of 634 million of investment property at an combination of wide ranging activities including average net yield of 6 per cent.
This represents fundamental changes to the Board and its a profit totalling around 150 million when structure: the crystallisation of agreements measured against the Groups historical cost.
relating to two of our major development The sale of these assets has been entirely driven projects, The Walbrook and Park Place: the by our desire to reshape the Company in order large scale disposal of investment assets and to drive growth from those remaining projects the pursuit of corporate transparency, I believe that have significant upside potential and to that Minerva is now well positioned to reap the release cash for re-investment in new assets.
rewards that it has worked so hard to achieve.
In so doing we have been able to benefit Most importantly I believe that under the from a robust investment market and virtually leadership of our Chief Executive, Salmaan eliminate our net debt which now stands at the Hasan, the future prospects for the Group are lowest level of any investment and development exceptionally good.
company in the FTSE 250 real estate index.
With approximately 200 million of cash MINERVA IS NOW we are now in a strong position to actively seek new opportunities which we believe WELL POSITIONED will create significant additional future returns for shareholders.
TO REAP THE REWARDS THAT IT Corporate transparency When we reported to you in March we recognised HAS WORKED SO the need for clearer reporting in order that the key elements of our business could be readily HARD TO ACHIEVE.
In many senses this was more of an issue prior to the disposal of 634 In closing can I take this opportunity to thank million of investment property.
With a smaller all of my colleagues at Minerva along with number of property assets, principally our advisers who, through the challenging comprising three major London development circumstances of the past year, have worked projects, the ability to report in a clearer manner incredibly hard to secure the position that has to a significant degree been facilitated we have now achieved and which will enable by our disposal process.
Nevertheless we the Group to move forward with confidence recognise that as each of our projects moves and vigour.
forward there will be the opportunity to report Andrew Rosenfeld more fully and regularly on progress.
With this Chairman in mind it is also our intention from June 2006 to move to semi-annual property valuations.
We believe that this is a sensible and opportune moment to adjust our current policy of annual revaluation, having mind to the timing of our development projects.
