Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 Chairmans statement 02 Our concentration on the core businesses of Net assets valuation Net assets per share were There have been many recent reports of a retail parks and City of London offices has delivered 801p, compared with 603p last year, an increase slowing down in the retail sector but we remain another strong performance.
Hercules Unit Trust of 32.8% or 31.5% excluding dividends in both confident that HUTs focus towards a high quality HUT produced its best ever trust return in 2004: years.
Most of this increase has come from the Open A1 portfolio will continue to prove more a new trust, the Hercules Income Fund HIF continuing strong performance of HUT and from attractive to retailers who remain committed to has been established: the Pillar Retail Europark Pillars development programme.
Net asset value the migration to the out-of-town market.
The Fund PREF now has four parks with a further as diluted by options under the management portfolio continues to be reversionary the current two under contract and both development incentive plan MIP is 780p per share.
Net asset rental income in HUT of 97.6 million is expected properties in the City of London Office Unit Trust value reduced by unprovided deferred taxation to increase to 137.6 million when reviewed to CLOUT have been prelet and sold.
In addition, and FRS13 fair value adjustments commonly current levels, ignoring any future growth.
Pillars development programme contributed referred to as NNNAV is 700p per share and 684p Liquidity in HUT continues to improve.
During the year to 31 March, units with a total value of 118 million were traded and HUT now Profits Profits before tax for the year to Retail parks HUT Pillar 34.4% HUT has had has 107 unitholders, an increase of 28 over 31 March 2005 were 21.7 million compared its best performance since its formation with March 2004.
No Pillar units have been sold since with 20.9 million for the previous year, an increase a total return for the year to 31 December 2004 May 2004. of 3.9%.
These profits would have been markedly of 36.9% and for the second year running it has higher if we had earned a performance fee from produced the best performance of UK pooled HIF Pillar 67.3% During the year, a new Jersey HUT.
However, in spite of HUTs exceptional funds.
The three year annualised return is now property unit trust, HIF, has been formed with performance, no fee accrued to Pillar.
the purpose of investing in small retail parks HUT produced a trust return of 36.9%, at the One of the key factors in achieving comprising solus units and clusters, this being ungeared level the total return was 23.1% which this performance is the strong and effective a key sub-sector of the UK retail warehouse was identical to the sector benchmark.
This has management applied to the portfolio.
The target lot sizes are 5 million to to be exceeded by 1% for Pillar to receive a During the year to 31 March, aggregate sales of 20 million, and the parks have long unexpired performance fee.
New fee arrangements have 503 million were achieved, the most significant lease terms with good security of income.
We recently been put to the unitholders of HUT which being that of Fosse Park and Newport Retail Park.
have recently been joined by the BT, Royal Mail would, if approved, provide an increase in base Parkgate Shopping Park, Rotherham, Malvern and BAe Pension Funds, as co-investors.
management fees and a revised HUT performance Retail Park and a 50% interest in Banbury Cross The portfolio is currently standing at 119 million fee for the future.
Retail Park were acquired for 329 million.
on 11 parks with further parks to be acquired Although the total number of retail parks shortly.
At 31 March 2005 the group owned Dividend In view of the offer from British Land, has reduced to 22 over the 12 months to 31 March, 67.3% of the units in HIF.
At formation it was the directors have determined that it would not the average size of the parks has increased from the groups intention to reduce its holding in be appropriate at the present time to recommend 224,000 sq ft to 246,000 sq ft and the proportion HIF to less than 50% within a year.
Since the payment of a final dividend.
of the portfolio with Open A1 planning increased year end the groups share has been reduced to 77%.
We believe that we will achieve better to 26% through additional subscription of units.
long-term growth from these larger shopping Pillars interest will be reduced as new parks parks with full Open A1 planning consent and are acquired for units and further discussions are have focused the portfolio accordingly.
in hand with another UK institution to inject a further property.
HIF is ungeared at present but a prudent level of gearing would permit a significant increase in the portfolio, without dilution of equity interests.
Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 03 Pillar developments During the year we sold our City offices CLOUT Pillar 35.9% There has remaining 50% interest in the Gallions Reach been an improvement in our City of London Shopping Park at Beckton, the other 50% being activities in CLOUT.
The development of held by HUT.
We also sold Manchester Fort 180,000 sq ft of offices known as One Coleman Shopping Park, a 320,000 sq ft park near the Street has been forward funded by a German City centre, for 167 million at a net initial yield institution with a major part pre-let to Legal & of 4.5%.
The Crown Point North Shopping Park, General.
The second development, in Basinghall a 213,000 sq ft park at Denton, east of Manchester, Street, was sold to Standard Chartered Bank as will be offered to HUT in due course.
The remaining a Turn-Key building developed by CLOUT.
development site for a new retail park is at These two transactions will make a sizeable Orpington where construction has commenced contribution to Pillars profits and cash over to create 130,000 sq ft of retail space.
Of CLOUTs remaining two We also sold our 50% interest in the joint investment properties, CityPoint, comprising venture concerning the Cricklewood development 707,000 sq ft, is now fully let following the recent site.
This was sold to Multiplex for 18.6 million letting of the top floors to Macquarie Bank Group.
and was the final remaining non-core asset in Management and staff The good performance our portfolio.
We retain a carried interest in this of Pillar and its related funds is due to a 3 billion development which could begin in 2007. considerable degree to the hard work and Retail parks Europe Pillar 36.4% Our European commitment of the whole Pillar team.
I would fund, PREF, based in Luxembourg, has completed like to thank them all for their valuable contribution.
It now has four parks aggregating to 1.24 million sq ft, in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Belgium and has contracted to acquire a further two, when complete, in France and in Italy.
Due diligence has commenced on the acquisition of a further four parks in Italy and HR Mould, Chairman other acquisition possibilities are under 22 May 2005 investigation.
When all of these acquisitions are complete in 2009, the PREF portfolio will comprise ten parks with a value in excess of some b530 million.
The process of identifying and securing retail park investments continues to be slower than we would like but we believe that the opportunity for capital growth of retail parks in the Eurozone remains strong.
It has recently become apparent that there is increasing investor interest in the sector with a consequent hardening of investment yields.
We consider the most effective way of capturing future capital growth is by forward funding new developments, which whilst delaying income flow, does allow us to influence the design and specification from the outset.
