Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Special Feature Wembley Park Boulevard The length and width of Londons Regent Street, this public transport and pedestrian corridor will be lined with bars, restaurants and cafes, along with 280,000 sq ft of retailing of which 150,000 sq ft will be designer outlet and 130,000 sq ft sports retail.
First Residential Block 286 units, comprising studios, one, two and three bed apartments, surrounding an inner private courtyard.
There is also community provision with a day nursery, employer and training portal, and some of the flats combined as live-work units.
Arena Square Quintain is spending 32m on the refurbishment of the Grade II listed Wembley Arena awarded International Venue of the Year in the 2005 Pollstar awards.
As part of these plans the Arena will be re-orientated towards the Stadium and the development, opening onto a spectacular 10m new square for London.
The size of Leicester Square, Arena Square will create a hub for entertainment, sport and cultural activity.
It will also serve as a gateway to Wembley Park Boulevard.
Computer generated images are illustrative only.
07 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Special Feature Wembley development Quintain controls 70 acres of land around the new Wembley Stadium.
Masterplanned by the Richard Rogers Partnership, 6.2m sq ft is already consented with potential for up to 8m sq ft in total.
The site presently includes Wembley Arena, the Conference The next stage of development will be the first residential Centre, Exhibition Halls and the Palaces of Arts and Industry block to the west of the Arena.
In joint venture with Family and together with 11.8 acres to the south west where Quintain Genesis Housing Associations, 286 apartments are proposed is in joint venture with the London Development Agency.
The block will comprise a Unconditional planning consent for 6.2m sq ft exists on 54 of mixed tenure offer exceeding the 60:40 split agreed in the the acres controlled by Quintain and there is potential for up to S106.
A planning application is scheduled for September of 8m sq ft in total.
The existing consents will see the creation of this year and it is envisaged that construction will start in the a 2bn mixed-use development providing 4,200 homes and early part of 2006. employment for at least 7,000 people.
To the south-west Quintain has underwritten the LDAs Focused around Wembley Park Boulevard to the west of the compulsory purchase of land to deliver a link through to Stadium, the scheme is designed to respond to the aspiration Wembley High Road.
Station Square is already under in the London Plan to develop Wembley as an International construction and an iconic bridge designed by Marks Leisure Destination.
The length and width of Regent Street, Barfield Architects will be in place for the Stadium opening.
Wembley Park Boulevard will be a public transport and These two structures are surrounded by land on which pedestrian corridor featuring, at the lower levels, bars, further significant regeneration opportunities exist which restaurants and cafes amongst 280,000 sq ft of designer Quintain will deliver in joint venture with the LDA.
306,000 sq ft of entertainment Outside of the consented 6.2m sq ft, the Palace of Industry space including a cinema complex and a 400 room 4-star hotel will complete the visitor destination while 910,000 sq ft is the proposed site of the new international entertainment complex which Quintain hopes to deliver in joint venture of office accommodation and 3.4m sq ft of residential space will provide live and work opportunities around the Stadium.
with Caesars Entertainment, Inc. comprising 750,000 sq ft of accommodation, the complex will deliver hotel and Quintain is already on-site extensively refurbishing Wembley convention space with gaming and entertainment.
Allocation Arena and reorientating the interior to face onto the Stadium for a regional casino will be sought under the Gaming Act and a new square for London Arena Square.
The size 2005 and complete Wembley as an International Leisure of Leicester Square, Arena Square will be the heart of the Destination.
development providing a hub for sport, cultural activity and entertainment.
42m is committed to these initial elements of the scheme, which are scheduled for completion in Spring 2006.
