04 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report on a thirteenth successive year of record results.
C. C. A. Glossop Chairman Edmonton Green, London Construction of 177 residential apartments, a Results Our key performance measurement of primary care facility and new leisure centre at I am pleased to report on a thirteenth total pre-tax return on average our 100m mixed use development.
successive year of record results: a shareholders funds was 28.6% year in which we have not only 2004: 27.1%, benefiting from a produced a strong trading and revaluation uplift of 8.8% 39.2m revaluation performance but have also 2004: 5.5% 26m of our investment made good progress in marshalling property portfolio, including our share future projects through our of joint ventures.
Dividends Profits before tax increased by 15% to Your board is recommending a final 46.3m 2004: 40.3m earnings per dividend of 5.9p 2004: 5.1p per share grew by 15% to 28.7p ordinary share, making a total 2004: 25.0p and net assets per share distribution for the year of 8.8p increased by 24% to 273.9p 2004: 7.6p, an increase of 16%.
This final dividend will be paid on 28th April 2006 to shareholders on the register on 7th April 2006.
St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 05 46.3m 39.2m 21% profit before tax revaluation surplus growth in property profits Trading, marshalling and acquisitions Property profits increased by 21% to 41.2m 2004: 34.0m as a result of 38 property disposals, the most significant being: North City shopping centre at Harpurhey, Manchester: the Kirkby Shopping Centre: the remainder of the first phase of Worcester Retail Park: a distribution facility for Pirelli at Barton Business Park, Staffordshire: further industrial distribution schemes at Trentham Lakes, Stoke-on-Trent: and residential land sales at Halebank, Widnes, Brierley Hill, West Midlands, Hilton, Derbyshire, and Norton, Stoke-on-Trent.
Barton Business Park, Staffordshire Net rental income for the year A 365,000 sq ft distribution facility built for Pirelli and sold in the year.
As a result of the programme of disposals the gross portfolio rent-roll at 30th November 2005, including our share of joint ventures, fell to 40.8m 2004: 44.8m.
Excellent progress was made in marshalling schemes to produce future profits: we are on site at two of our major mixed use town centre regeneration schemes in London Edmonton Green and Wembley Central: we have exchanged development agreements at Bedford, Hatfield, Hednesford, Staffordshire, and Castle Hill, Dudley.
Castle Hill, Dudley A 148 acre zoo, castle and derelict land site for which we have exchanged a development agreement for a 100m scheme.
06 Chairmans statement continued The key to our strategy is the continuing acquisition of well-located opportunities to top up the hopper.
we have obtained major planning consents at Farnborough, St. Matthews Quarter, Walsall, and Washwood Heath, Birmingham: and Trentham Gardens, our major heritage restoration project in Staffordshire, is progressing well and should be profitable in 2006.
Acquisitions, whilst less than in recent years, were still substantial, comprising some 200 acres with significant projects in: Burton upon Trent: South Ockendon, Essex: Telford: Quedgeley, Gloucestershire: and Hillington, Glasgow Further details of all these projects and the companys performance can be found in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 8 to 21.
Operating and financial review Yeovil A 62,000 sq ft headquarters built for Screwfix and sold in the year.
OFR This year we have chosen to produce IFRS will have an impact on the Directors and employees an OFR which seeks to adopt the spirit presentation of the Groups accounts The continued run of record results of the Accounting Standards Board although not on the underlying and the good prospects for the future ASB Reporting Standard including business or its cash flow, the principal could not have been achieved without the recently issued ASB Guidelines areas of impact being referred to in the committed and highly competent and of the EU Accounts Modernisation OFR on page 21. people at all levels in the organisation.
I hope you find it informative.
My thanks go to all the team for the I would also draw your attention to our Governance efforts they have put in to achieving updated website www.
We have always sought to manage yet another successful year.
co. uk which includes useful our affairs to the highest standards of information on our major schemes.
integrity and business competence The company continues to benefit from and your board takes proper a strong board.
The executive team International financial reporting cognizance of corporate governance is supported by committed standards IFRS initiatives.
Any departures, however non-executives who are not afraid This will be the last year in which we will minor, will be for good reasons, in the to question and challenge.
report under UK Generally Accepted spirit of the regulations and will be fully Accounting Practice GAAP.
In future, and openly explained.
we will be required to adopt IFRS when preparing accounts.
St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 07 Trentham Gardens, Staffordshire The new bridge into the Italian gardens, which are being restored as part of our transformation of this unique visitor destination.
In the year James Shaw, who had She was Director-General of the Prospects been a non-executive director for four Association of British Insurers from The company has, yet again, had a years, left the board on taking up a 1999 until she stepped down last year.
good start to the year with transactions position with UK Coal which we both She is a non-executive director of the already exchanged or completed or felt might lead to a perception of a Bank of England, Centrica plc and agreements for lease exchanged that potential conflict of interest.
will provide future investment sales fortunate to find excellent which should give rise to property replacements in Mary Francis and John Salmon was formerly a senior profits in excess of 16m.
partner at  with responsibility for a range of major As reported in the OFR, the investment Mary Francis has had a long and listed companies until his retirement property market remains very strong distinguished career in both the public last year.
A member and former and the occupational market, whilst and private sectors.
She has worked Deputy Chairman of PwCs patchy, offers opportunities for an in a wide variety of roles, including the Supervisory Board, he also initiated active developer.
The general corporate finance department of Hill and led that firms services to economic climate is perhaps more Samuel & Co. for HM Treasury on non-executive directors.
He is also uncertain than for some time but privatization and European Union a member of the council and nonetheless, I am looking forward with policy, in 10 Downing Street, and as executive committee of the British confidence to another year of progress Deputy Private Secretary to the Queen.
