Chairmans statement A year of progress on many fronts 3is business, balance sheet and board Looking forward, the Board intends to have all developed considerably this year.
achieve the return of an additional The results for the Company are a good 500 million to shareholders through a financial performance and strong cash combination of special dividend and flow, an enhanced competitive position share repurchases.
The Board therefore and opportunities to grow value for proposes to pay a special dividend shareholders in the years ahead.
of 40.7p per share approximately In summary, a year of progress on 250 million as soon as practicable after many fronts.
the Annual General Meeting on 6 July.
Our very high level of realisations The Board also proposes that the has afforded the opportunity to return balance of about 250 million be 500 million to our shareholders, thus returned to shareholders through a improving our capital efficiency, without programme of on-market share compromising our ability to grow.
Resolutions Each of our Buyout, Growth relating to both the special dividend Capital and Venture Capital businesses and buyback proposals will be put to has improved its competitive position shareholders at an Extraordinary General in the year.
Our strategy of developing the Meeting we plan to hold immediately business internationally has progressed following the Annual General Meeting.
well and some 48% of 3is portfolio value In my interim report to you I noted is now outside the UK.
that the appointment of Philip Yea as A total return of 512 million for Chief Executive in July 2004 was widely the 12 months to 31 March 2005 welcomed and that Philip had made a represents a 15.9% return on opening number of organisational changes in the shareholders funds, marginally better autumn of 2004.
These changes have than both the FTSE All-Share 15.6% positioned the business for growth, and the FTSE 100 15.4% total return enhancing the linkage between our indices in the same period, and ahead of business lines and geographic markets 3is share price.
and ensuring that 3i continues to attract, The Board is recommending a retain and develop the best talent.
final ordinary dividend of 9.3p, making a total ordinary dividend of 14.6p, an increase of 4.3% from 14.0p last year.
3i Report and accounts 2005 04 A total return of 512 million for the 12 months to 31 March 2005 represents a 15.9% return on opening shareholders funds Simon Ball joined 3i in February and As ever, the macroeconomic prospects succeeded Michael Queen as Finance are complicated by global imbalances Director on 1 April 2005, the date when and shifts in the pattern of growth.
3i is, Michael formally became responsible for however, well placed to take advantage 3is Growth Capital business.
We are already securing access who has done a tremendous job with our to growth capital opportunities Venture Capital business since he in India and China and our Venture became responsible for it in 2001, retires Capital business is able to exploit its from the Board at our Annual General network in the US, Asia and Europe.
Meeting in July at the age of 60.
He will Meanwhile, the pace of restructuring in be succeeded by Jo Taylor, who will join Europe is accelerating.
our Executive Committee in July.
Rods A year of such good progress at Human Resources responsibilities have 3i is the result of a team effort and I been taken on by Denise Collis, who would like to pay tribute to three groups joined 3i and the Executive Committee of people in particular.
First, our teams in November.
around the world, who have worked with I was also delighted to welcome skill and determination to deliver these Sir Robert Smith and Dr Peter Mihatsch results.
Second, the managers of our as non-executive Directors to the Board portfolio companies, who are the ultimate in September 2004.
Sir Robert brings drivers of 3is value, and third, the many a wealth of experience from the City people who work with 3i around the and industry and has substantial private world to find, invest and grow businesses equity experience.
extensive knowledge of German business as well as insights gained from growing a major international telecommunications business.
3i now has non-executives from the US, France and Germany, all countries where we Baroness Hogg have significant interests.
Chairman 11 May 2005 Our very high level of realisations has afforded the opportunity to return 500 million to shareholders, thus improving our capital efficiency 05
