CHAIRMANS STATEMENT REVIEW OF 2005 PERFORMANCE Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc ASCoT achieved a total return of 24.9% for the year to 31 December 2005, which compares with a total return of 27.8% from the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies, your Companys investment benchmark.
ASCoT has therefore under-performed its benchmark for the year.
Larger companies, as represented by the FTSE All-Share Index, registered a total return of 22.0%.
Your Managers Report explains ASCoTs performance in 2005.
Your Board has reviewed this in detail and is fully supportive of your Managers long term and consistent application of their investment philosophy.
This inevitably leads to short periods of under-performance from time to time.
Last years Chairmans Statement included in its summary the cautionary note... it would be unwise for investors to extrapolate the significant returns enjoyed over the last two years.
At the time, this sentiment was shared unanimously by your Board and Managers.
With hindsight, a priceless investment tool, this caution was misplaced as the returns noted demonstrate.
This third consecutive year of outstanding absolute returns produces compound annual total returns over this period for ASCoT of 30.1%, for the investment benchmark of 30.2%, and for larger companies of 18.5%.
This complements compound annual total returns for the 15 years since ASCoTs inception of 17.3% from ASCoT, 12.2% from its investment benchmark, and 10.7% from larger companies.
Your Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 7.85p, which produces total dividends for the year of 11.85p representing an increase of 7.7% on the total for the previous year.
Subject to Shareholders approval, the final dividend of 7.85p per share will be paid on 7 March 2006 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 February 2006.
ASCoT operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan and the relevant documentation is available from your Managers website or on request for those Shareholders not already participating in this Plan.
SHARE BUY BACK AUTHORITY AND TREASURY SHARES At the Annual General Meeting in February 2005, the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of ASCoTs Ordinary Shares was renewed.
No Shares were purchased during the year.
Your Board will be seeking a renewal of this authority at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 March 2006.
Your Board has established, and keeps under careful review, the circumstances under which such authority may be utilised.
Should these arise, ASCoT will seek to purchase Ordinary Shares and it is your Boards current policy to cancel rather than hold in treasury any such shares.
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ASCoT continues to prepare its financial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the AITCs Statement of Recommended Practice.
Your Board, following discussions with the Secretaries and your Companys auditors, resolved not to adopt International Accounting Standards IAS as such adoption would result in a presentation format that, in your Boards opinion, would be less informative to Shareholders.
In your Boards view, there would be no material change in the financial results and position of the Company were it to adopt IAS.
Your Board will, of course, keep this matter under review.
However, consistent with the 2005 Interim Report, these financial statements do incorporate three changes to accounting practices: Financial Reporting Standards FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement.
Adoption of these standards has required a change in the treatment and presentation of the final dividend and the basis of valuing investments in the portfolio.
This latter change involves valuing the investment portfolio at bid rather than mid prices, which has reduced ASCoTs reported NAV by about 0.8%: similar adjustments have been made to historic data so that performance is unaffected.
Further information regarding these changes is provided in the notes to these financial statements.
8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT INVESTMENT MANAGERS AND SECRETARIES On 1 December 2005, the assets and business of Aberforth Partners transferred to Aberforth Partners LLP, a limited liability partnership.
As a consequence, the investment management, administration and company secretarial services previously provided by Aberforth Partners are now provided by Aberforth Partners LLP.
There was no change to any of the terms of these services as a result.
SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK As noted, 2005 marked the third consecutive year of outstanding absolute returns from ASCoT and its investment benchmark.
There are reasons to be cautious looking forward.
Amongst them, the UK economy is faltering at a time when seemingly cheap and abundant debt is causing asset prices to rise and fuelling M&A activity.
There are also reasons to be sanguine.
Most UK listed companies have strong balance sheets, good cash ows and are earning high real returns on capital employed.
In turn, of course, these are the very features that are driving the debt fuelled M&A activity, which, in part, has supported the attractive returns investors have enjoyed these last three years.
Whatever the future holds, your Board is convinced that your Managers investment philosophy, skill and experience will serve Shareholders well and remains committed to this approach which has been so successful over the years.
