6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans statement 2005, our first full year since coming to We consider dividends in two parts: We believe the market in September 2004, the first element, being the normal continued the sustained growth in dividend, is based on a 45% pay-out passionately that customer franchise and profitability ratio.
The second special element a business that the Group has achieved since it derives from our principle of returning was launched in 1993.
Henry Engelhardt, excess cash to our shareholders, succeeds our Chief Executive, writes in detail reflecting the strongly cash generative about the achievements of the year in nature of our business model.
We only because people his own report I shall, therefore, retain in the business sufficient cash to enjoy working for content myself with the headlines.
provide both a prudent margin against contingencies, currently set at 25m, it.
Enthusiasm is In a year when, given our assessment of and cover for planned investments, this infectious, where the motor market was in its year being 6m for our expansion into cycle, we deliberately set out to grow Spain and moving our Swansea office transmitting from less rapidly, we were pleased to add into larger modern premises.
our staff to our 10% to customer numbers and finish the year with 1.1 million policyholders.
On this basis there is 38.7m available customers and to This growth, together with a continuing to distribute out of year-end nonexcellent expense ratio, helped offset regulated cash balances totalling those thinking the impact of the cycle on our claims 69.7m.
A final dividend of 14.9p per about coming to ratio, whilst we achieved further strong share 7.8p normal: 7.1p special is, growth in income from products and therefore, proposed for 2005, which work for us.
services that we do not underwrite.
will bring total dividends for the year Alistair Lyons CBE Profit before tax was up 14% at 119m to 24.6p per share, a yield of 4.3% whilst total premiums written, including based on the closing share price on 1 those we share with our reinsurance March 2006.
This is the first full partners, grew by 13% to 534m.
We were delighted with the 48.3% The Group is well capitalised with a Total Return that we achieved for proven approach to reserving, and with Shareholders during 2005, itself part of solvency ratios in both the UK and an overall 73.9% since flotation.
The Gibraltar which carry an appropriate sustained growth in our share price has margin over minimum solvency resulted in the business being valued at statutory requirements.
1.5Bn on 1 March 2006, which compares against 711m when first We believe passionately that a business listed just under 18 months previously.
succeeds because people enjoy working for it.
Enthusiasm is infectious, During the year we paid dividends to transmitting from our staff to our shareholders totalling 49.2m, customers and to those thinking about comprising a 9.3p per share final coming to work for us.
Quality is central dividend for 2004 and a 9.7p per share to everything that we do: we measure interim dividend for 2005. the quality of every department on a monthly basis, and these quality scores ADMIRAL GROUP plc 7 translate into Quality Awards.
As a consequence she quality cannot be achieved without will not offer herself for re-election as a effective training, it is also a mindset Director of Admiral at the forthcoming that depends upon people wanting to Annual General Meeting and we are achieve a quality outcome.
currently seeking a new Non-executive Director with equivalent skills and We were, therefore, very proud to have experience.
I would like to take this been named Employer of the Year at opportunity to thank Gillian for her the National Business Awards, to have contribution during her time with us.
won Welsh Company of the Year for the second time, and to have As I wrote last year, Admirals strategy continued our uninterrupted series of is clear and straightforward to being six years running in the Sunday continue to grow our share of the Times list of Top 100 Places to Work in direct private motor market, the UK.
Being a leading employer of maximising the value derived from over 1,700 people in South Wales we each customer relationship.
Along recognise our wider responsibility to the way we will identify profitable the communities of which we are a opportunities to exploit the part and support a large number of knowledge, skills and resources local charities - details of our activity attaching to our core business in the in this area can be found in the report UK.
Our plans to launch later this on corporate responsibility.
year in Spain, the first leg of our expansion into Europe, flow directly Ongoing alignment of interest between from this strategy, as does our our staff and our shareholders is one continuing development of Confused, of our core principles.
Our Approved our intelligent automated car and Executive Share Schemes are insurance shopper which last year designed to strengthen that alignment handled 4 million quotes and added over time and we are delighted that household and travel insurance to its the strong out-performance against core motor offering.
our plan for 2005 resulted in the Approved Scheme realising its We look forward to continuing maximum award of 3,000 free shares consistently to create value for all for each eligible employee.
Executive Share Scheme is based on growth in earnings per share over three years and will, therefore, first vest after the 2007 financial year.
In April of last year we welcomed Alastair Lyons, Chairman Gillian Wilmot to our Board as a Nonexecutive Director, bringing us extensive Alastair Lyons marketing experience gained across a Chairman broad range of consumer-facing businesses.
However, her subsequent appointment as Chief Executive of the privately owned credit retail business Buy-as-you-View results in her no longer being regarded as an Independent Director under the Combined Code, as I am also Chairman
