BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Chairmans statement 2 In a challenging business environment, BG Group has again delivered another impressive set of results.
Sir Robert Wilson Chairman I am pleased to report that, in 2005, BG The recent high level and extraordinary cost to our shareholders, and is likely Group delivered another impressive set of volatility of international gas prices has to mean that marginally economic results.
Strong operational performance adverse implications for the industrys sources of gas in the North Sea will stay competitiveness and, combined with in the ground rather than be produced.
and favourable market conditions combined to enable our continued growth.
security concerns, will tend to encourage However, we intend to continue with a consideration of both nuclear and coalvery active North Sea exploration and In 2005, total operating profit increased fired power generation as alternatives to development programme, in both the by 57%, while earnings, excluding disposals gas.
However, many of the current UK and Norway.
With its international and re-measurements, were up by 64% to destabilising influences on gas pricing are portfolio of LNG supplies, and its planned 1 357 million.
The full year dividend will be likely to subside with the development of LNG re-gasification plant in Milford increased by 57% to 6.00 pence.
Our aim more infrastructure for the international Haven, BG Group hopes to help resolve now is to continue to increase the dividend trade in gas.
Concerns about geopolitical UK gas supply concerns.
in line with underlying earnings growth.
stability in some key producing areas are BG Group has a rich heritage of less easy to address and, at national policy BUSINESS CONTEXT AND STRATEGIC experience of working right along the gas level, can probably only be met by FRAMEWORK chain from source through to consumer, geographic diversity in supply sources.
It has almost become a truism to say providing us with a strong basis on which that this is an exciting time to be in the In many respects, though, there are good to benefit from the evolution of the gas gas industry.
reasons to believe that we are entering industry from a regionally to a globallythe Age of Gas.
Natural gas is the It has been clear for some years now traded commodity business.
cleanest fossil fuel: it is convenient to that the growth of demand for natural PROGRESS IN 2005 use: it is relatively abundant and the gas would be likely to exceed that for 2005 was another year of excellent technologies for delivering it by pipeline competing fuels.
It has been clear, performance in developing new projects.
Renewables will too, that the rapid development of The completion of Train 1 of Egyptian LNG enter the energy mix, of course, but it will international trade in gas, whether ahead of schedule, and less than six years be many years yet before they will account through pipelines or as Liquefied Natural after the first discovery of gas, was the for a large part of the worlds energy Gas LNG, would mean a much faster rate highlight.
This was complemented by needs.
In the meantime, gas, as the most of change in the gas industry than in the eco-friendly fossil fuel, has an important Train 2 also being completed last year, more mature markets for other fossil even further ahead of schedule, and by role to play.
Now, overlaid on all this, we have the early start-up of the Simian, Sienna seen sharp price increases, both for gas In the wake of recent public debate, I and Sapphire fields to supply gas to these and oil, and growing concern about the should make specific reference to the UK liquefaction facilities.
long-term security of energy supplies.
BG Group supplies about 6% This all makes for a challenging business of the gas consumed in the UK.
Until When I wrote last years statement, I environment, but one that is also full of 2004, the UK was self-sufficient in gas said that our plans and developments to opportunity for a company such as ours, and, over the last decade, UK gas prices achieve strong growth until the end of with a focus predominantly on gas.
were among the lowest in the EU in all the decade were in place, and that we segments.
However, for the foreseeable would be focusing increasingly on Demand for gas is rising in both the US future the UK will need to import gas and and Western Europe at a time when growth opportunities for the next decade.
must therefore compete on price for I am pleased to report now that we have indigenous supplies are in decline.
The  gas, whether via gap must be filled by internationally made substantial progress in that pipeline from Norway and Russia or as traded gas and a significant part of this direction and, whilst there is much yet LNG from elsewhere.
Over recent years, BG Group to do, a wide range of new opportunities has developed a strong Atlantic Basin BG Group regrets the British Governments are beginning to crystallise.
The Chief position in LNG, so we are well placed to decision to raise taxes on North Sea Executives statement covers this in participate in this growing market.
This is a major direct more detail.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 In November, we announced our intention positive relationships with the to return up to 1 billion to shareholders communities among which we work can Total operating profit 3 via a share repurchase programme, and I be key both to reputation and to future have already noted the step change in our commercial success.
We are increasingly dividend policy.
These are signals of our seeking to focus our social programme 2 380m commitment to tight capital discipline, and investments on projects that will to maintaining an efficient balance sheet foster sustainable development within 2004 1 513m and to generating cash for the long-term those communities.
High My statement would not be complete hydrocarbon prices, the US$1.8 billion without a reference to the Chairmans Dividend per share aggregate pre-tax receipts from our North Awards.
The 2005 Awards were the Caspian Sea asset sale and new long-term seventh annual awards and their aim is projects coming onstream have enabled to encourage innovation in the drive for us to do this.
It is a signal of our 6.00p continuous improvement in our health, confidence in the outlook for BG Group safety and environmental performance.
that we can both return cash to 2004 3.81p They also serve the important purpose of shareholders and sustain our growth ensuring that good ideas, proven in trajectory.
Consistent with these growth practice, can become widely known and ambitions, we also announced an extra Earnings applied throughout the Group.
It is both 900 million of capital investment in very sad and disappointing that, whilst new development projects.
these efforts have been made, we have to CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND report six contractor fatalities during 1 357m GOVERNANCE 2005.
The Chief Executives statement The Board of BG Group is committed to discusses these.
For my part, I can 2004 829m the very highest standards of governance.
reassure shareholders that the Chief The Company has developed a framework Executive and his team have responded that encompasses internal controls, very powerfully to the three incidents organisation and structure, and involved and demanded a step change in independent assurance.
We believe that safety performance across the Group.
this framework delivers best practice in Finally, let me welcome Jrgen Dormann, terms of governance.
who joined the Board in June.
I referred in Increasingly, the focus on gas production last years report to the other Board is moving from developed countries to changes in 2005 with the appointment of those at different stages of economic, Baroness Hogg in January and the environmental and social development.
retirement of three long-serving nonThere are new opportunities for us, but executives at the AGM.
I would also like to these new opportunities bring with them conclude by thanking the employees of very clear responsibilities.
It is often BG Group for the commitment and effort alleged, for example, that resource wealth they demonstrated and the imagination in developing countries leads to they displayed in the course of 2005.
That need not be the case and time when the Group is growing fast, the we will have no part in it.
In fact, we go challenges to employees are considerable.
further and apply the same transparent They have shown what an excellent team and ethical standards in our operations they are in delivering the successes regardless of where we work in the world.
reported in this Annual Report and Accounts.
Recognising the increasing range of cultural and social environments in which it operates, BG Group is putting more resource into the development and implementation of corporate responsibility policy.
A Corporate Sir Robert Wilson Responsibility Committee of the Board Chairman has also been established under the chairmanship of Sir John Coles which has a wide remit including Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Community Relations.
The establishment of this Committee reflects the increasing weight the Board places on getting corporate responsibility right.
BG Groups approach to the environment is to go beyond compliance with local regulations and to meet internationally accepted good practice in all its operations.
The Group recognises also that See presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 152.
