4 Chairmans Statement We stand out because of our investment style, because we have our own dedicated in-house investment team and because we own and run a financial services and pensions business.
This year we have been fortunate to secure the services of Results Gordon McQueen, a former executive director of HBOS and This year, I am pleased to report a year end increase in net Group Treasurer and Finance Director of Bank of Scotland, as a assets together with another increase in dividend.
He is unanimously proposed by the assets have grown by 10.1% and the earnings base has been directors for appointment by stockholders at the AGM at which maintained.
We recommend a final dividend of 36.25 pence per Alan Young and I will be standing for re-election.
It is also ordinary stock unit making a total dividend for the year of with much appreciation of his commitment to, and deep 71.75 pence, an increase of 1.25 pence.
understanding of, the Company that we say goodbye to William Berry who has been on the board since 1994 and will retire at Outlook the AGM.
Latterly William has also been our Senior Independent Director and with his retirement the board has elected William For the first time, this report and accounts contains a Jack, who has been a non-executive director since 2000, to fill statement from the Chief Executive, Alan Harden, who, with the that role.
investment team, has reorganised the way the portfolio is split and managed in order to give increased focus and clear accountability to those who are responsible for managing the Rejoining the AITC Companys assets.
We also continue to develop Alliance Trust In October 2004 the Alliance Trust rejoined the Association of Savings, an investment which has the potential to generate Investment Trust Companies AITC of which it was a founder significant long term value for stockholders.
The AITC plays an important role for the because of our investment style, because we have our own investment trust sector as the trade body which provides dedicated in-house investment team and because we own and technical and other support to its members, lobbying on run a financial services and pensions business.
Your board is industry issues and setting industry standards.
We are delighted determined to build upon these special advantages for the to rejoin and become actively involved with it again.
FSA Regulation Board Bruce Johnston retired at last years AGM, after 13 years on the In November 2004, the Treasury issued a consultation paper board, including eight as Chairman.
On behalf of all the proposing various methods of increased regulation of investment trust companies, including making shares in them directors I would like to say how much we appreciate Bruces long and dedicated service to the Company.
regulated products subject to a regulatory framework similar to
