Chairmans Review The Board has supported and endorsed management in rolling out a programme of development projects that will enable us to meet a continuing increase in demand and maintain our share of a rapidly growing global market.
Don Argus, Chairman The year has seen an outstanding result for the Company While each of these projects will provide good returns at any with operating and financial results reflecting strong market point in the commodity cycle, the Board is conscious that it must conditions.
BHP Billitons market capitalisation has continued ensure the Company is well-positioned to take advantage of to grow, reaching around US$95 billion compared with growing demand if, in fact, the economic trends we are US$58 billion this time last year and US$35 billion the previous witnessing are a sign of sustained demand growth and, hence, year.
a long-term shift in the global economy.
Our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation It is the Boards responsibility to ensure the Company can were US$11.4 billion excluding exceptional items : our net respond to meet the requirements of our global customers and operating cash flows increased to US$8.7 billion and our total maintain our market share as the worlds markets change and dividend payment for the year was 28 US cents a share, a further develop.
increase on last years significant rise and reflecting the seventh Corporate Governance consecutive increase in our dividend.
The concept of corporate governance has unquestionably The strength of commodity prices and the volumes produced climbed the corporate agenda.
Across the globe we have across our operations record volumes in many of the businesses witnessed a proliferation of regulations, codes, recommendations were integral to our financial performance and while input costs and principles on the subject.
These have been generated by have increased as a result of the tight supply and strong demand governments, shareholders and lobby groups.
Barely a single environment, our profit margins continue to increase.
aspect of modern corporate life has been left untouched in Despite the constant prediction that global economies are about this process of regulation.
to head into cyclical declines, high energy prices and geopolitical When BHP and Billiton merged in 2001 the Board determined stresses, solid economic growth continues.
North east Asia is that the appropriate approach to governance was to adopt a acquiring enormous economic power.
Korea, Taiwan, China and common framework that drew on the governance requirements Japan are influencing business decisions, trade flows, costs and and best practices from all of the jurisdictions in which we pricing for most major companies around the world.
India operated, and are regulated.
As we have developed the continues to make economic progress, suggesting significant framework applicable to BHP Billiton, we have been motivated growth opportunities over the next decades.
by a desire to ensure that corporate governance does not simply Part of the Boards response has been to support and endorse become synonymous with a mandated system of rules, based management in rolling out a programme of development on a tick a box system of compliance where shareholders, projects that will enable us to meet a continuing increase in creditors and other corporate stakeholders might lower their demand and maintain our share of a rapidly growing global guard to their own detriment.
This year, as well as approving four new projects two in Petroleum, and one each in copper and iron ore the Board endorsed the acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd, providing us a further set of future development options as part of its worldclass suite of copper uranium gold and nickel assets.
2 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 To ensure we go beyond this regimented approach the Board Since 1997 BHP Billiton has produced a report on non-financial has adopted its own Board Governance Document.
issues and this initially covered environmental performance, This Document outlines: with safety, health and community data included in subsequent reports.
This year we have introduced the Sustainability Report the processes the Board has developed to govern its own previously the Health, Safety, Environment and Community tasks and activities including our expectations of Directors Report and this Report highlights our commitment to socioand the characteristics we are looking for in those we appoint economic and ethical issues as well as those matters previously to the Board covered in the HSEC Report.
the matters specifically reserved for Board decision-making the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and the Our commitment to responsible business practice was accountability of the CEO for that authority recognised with the Company of the Year Award 2005 at the Business in the Community BITC National Awards for the relationship between the Board and the CEO, and Excellence.
BHP Billiton is the first company in the extractive the boundaries the Board has placed on CEO actions.
industries to receive the award and is the first recipient We believe that compliance of itself will not lead to a high recognised for its global activities.
performing board and that it is incumbent on boards to develop All of our people around the world have a strong commitment their own practices and processes that not only accommodate to our sustainability initiatives and they have gained their own mandated rules, but implement systems to ensure that the confidence and understanding as well as enjoying the chance board most effectively represents the shareholders and to make a difference in a constructive way to the communities promotes and protects the interests of the company.
The Board where we operate.
Governance Document has moved the emphasis from mere compliance to a practice of informed responsible corporate Outlook governance in the modern business environment.
The While global economic growth rates have slowed from the Document is published on the website and can be accessed exceptionally high levels of 2004, the emerging economies at www.
remain buoyant, offsetting slowing industrial production growth Our Corporate Governance Statement starts on page 28 in the OECD nations.
It is the emerging economies of Asia, of this Report and a summary of our compliance with our South America, Africa and Russia that will continue to drive multi-jurisdictional obligations and our own internal control global growth, thereby providing a sound underpinning for mechanisms is published on our website.
Our programme of Board renewal continued throughout the year.
We expect China to remain a large and sustainable consumer In February we were able to secure the services of Mr Carlos of raw materials and resources over the coming decades, and Cordeiro and, more recently the Hon Gail fide Planque.
Both the Chinese governments measures to tackle excessive growth appointments followed a worldwide search by international rates in certain sectors of their economy are to be welcomed.
firms retained to recruit directors with the requisite skill sets, However, developing economies, like all economies, will be capabilities and attributes to add value to the oversight of this subject to business cycles which will impact economic activity complex Company.
Michael Chaney and Lord Renwick will retire by rotation this Commodity prices will inevitably ease from their highs as year and have both indicated that they do not wish to seek demand growth slows and new supply comes on stream, re-election.
There is never a right time for hard-working, quality although we continue to expect prices to remain high by recent directors to leave a board and, on behalf of all shareholders, I historical standards.
thank Michael and Robin for their contribution to the Once again, I commend Chip Goodyear, his management team development of this high performing Company.
and all of BHP Billitons many thousands of employees and I pay tribute to all my Board colleagues for their contribution contractors for their continued commitment which has enabled throughout the year and for their continued commitment to the the Company to turn in another outstanding performance for the prudent oversight of the Groups affairs.
Corporate Responsibility Corporate responsibility is essentially concerned with how organisations develop their business in order to produce an overall net benefit to society.
Don Argus BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 3
