Aviva plc 2005 Overview 4 Chairmans statement Group performance Market developments This was compensated by a strong recovery Our business is increasingly multinational.
The European Commission has described in the second half which can be attributed During 2005, for the first time, our the state pension deficits in the European to a combination of demonstrating the long-term savings new business premiums Union EU as its major structural economic value of the RAC acquisition and a growing from continental Europe exceeded 50% challenge.
Although the impact varies confidence in the sustainability of our of the group total.
We have announced a between member states, governments general insurance result.
major bancassurance deal in Ireland and across the EU are increasingly focussed on Dividend continue to make good progress with strategies to address the consequences of I am pleased to announce that the board our newer operations in India and China.
has recommended a final dividend of In the UK, we have purchased the RAC.
In November, the Turner Report was issued 17.44 pence per share, which brings the This represents a significant opportunity by the Pensions Commission, setting out total dividend for the year to 27.27 pence.
We have made good progress their views of the future of UK pensions This represents an increase of 7.5% on the towards realising cost savings and have and recommending changes for a new 2004 full year dividend and exceeds the identied growth opportunities.
The key recommendations groups previous policy of seeking to grow the believe that this purchase will assist the were the establishment of a low cost dividend by approximately 5% per annum.
sustainability of our general insurance National Pension Saving Scheme in which earnings.
Our UK long-term savings Our previous target, to grow the dividend people are automatically enrolled and an performance has been robust and is by 5%, was put in place when the dividend increase in the state retirement age.
strongly positioned for the future.
Naturally, at that time, We continue to believe that cost-effective the board wanted to give a high degree Strategy outlook solutions are required and that to achieve of certainty to our shareholders regarding Aviva is a complex and evolving business this, unnecessary legislation, regulation future dividend growth.
The board believes and we have recently given consideration and complexity must be removed.
Pension that the target has become too rigid a to clarifying our strategy.
In summary, simplication on A day in April 2006 constraint.
Our future intention is to increase our business strategy is to be a clear leader will provide a great opportunity for the dividend on a basis judged prudent in helping our customers grow their wealth Norwich Union to offer customers a using a dividend cover in the 1.5 to 2.0 and protect their assets and their health.
choice of simpler, more exible products.
times range as a guide, on an IFRS operating We do this by offering a superior range We should not underestimate the challenges earnings after tax basis, while retaining of long-term savings, investment and that lie ahead, but I am confident that we capital to support future business growth.
protection products in markets that offer will succeed.
significant opportunities for growth: and Board matters by providing a broad range of competitive Share performance The end of last year saw the retirement of motor, property, health and related Our end of year share price rose to Pehr Gyllenhammar.
I would like to thank insurance services to individuals and small to 705 pence 2004: 628 pence, an increase Pehr, on behalf of the board and our medium-sized enterprises in chosen markets.
When adding in shareholders, for his vision, hard work and References in our strategy to withdrawing dividends paid during 2005, this represents dedication to Aviva in his role as chairman.
from businesses that do not offer the a total shareholder return of 21.2% for He leaves a company that is nancially t potential for market-leading positions or the year.
While this is a strong stand-alone and strongly positioned.
Deputy chairman superior returns have been discontinued, performance, it is below average for our George Paul and non-executive director as that work is now complete.
It is always difficult to explain share Elizabeth Vallance also retired at the end price performance, but there is little doubt of 2005.
They go with the thanks of the the share issue supporting the acquisition board for their significant contributions of RAC dampened our share performance to the success of Aviva.
7.5% Increase in the full year ordinary dividend Good governance and an understanding of the impacts of our international business operations are important aspects of the way we conduct business.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Chairman Aviva plc 2005 Overview 5 Mary Francis has been appointed as a We sponsored two major badminton More than 700,000 was committed non-executive director during the year.
tournaments in Asia, the Aviva-COFCO by Aviva to tsunami relief work in Asia, Mary is, among other roles, a non-executive China Masters in Beijing and the Aviva including over 200,000 given by staff.
director of the Bank of England and a Open in Singapore, and we continued Part of this funding has been directed former director general of the Association our sponsorship of the Aviva Ballkids at towards building schools and replacing of British Insurers.
The experience and the Australian Open tennis tournament.
shing boats to help families in India knowledge she brings with her will add All these sponsorships generated a huge rebuild their lives.
This, and numerous to the strength of the board.
amount of interest around the world.
other unheralded examples, illustrates the commitment of staff to making a positive The board is committed to the highest Recognition difference to the communities in which standards of governance and has an It is gratifying when our hard work is we operate.
excellent record in this area.
To develop noticed and recognised.
For the third further our governance work, we are consecutive year, Norwich Union Insurance Employees introducing a governance committee was named general insurer of the year by I would like to give my warm thanks that will provide even greater focus on Insurance Times.
Commercial Union Poland to the staff of Aviva for their continued this important aspect of the boards was named life insurance company of commitment and hard work.
I would like to thank Russell the decade by Home & Market magazine, in a complex and ever-changing environment, Walls for agreeing to become chairman of reecting the consistently high quality of and it is through the efforts of all our this committee.
Further success employees across the world that Aviva has was achieved by Morley Fund Management, been able to achieve the excellent results Additionally, we recognise the importance named as property manager of the year at set out in this report.
of our responsibilities to all of Avivas the UK Pensions Awards, and by our French stakeholders.
Consequently, we have Outlook business Aviva Gestion dActifs, which once introduced a corporate social responsibility I believe that our multinational, composite again secured a number of awards for fund committee to enable our pioneering work structure puts us in a good position to management.
in this area to be recognised and regularly provide stable earnings and sustained reported to the board.
I am grateful to Corporate social responsibility growth into the future.
While we encounter Wim Dik for chairing this committee.
The board believes that good governance challenging trading conditions in certain of and an understanding of the impacts of our markets, others offer good opportunities Brand our international business operations are for growth, notably the increasing demand October 2005 saw the launch of our important aspects of the way we conduct for private pension provision.
It is this balance first pan-European advertising campaign business.
It is therefore pleasing to be that differentiates us from our peers.
to promote Aviva: Forward thinking.
recognised for our performance in this I rmly believe that Aviva is in the business area.
We are the only UK insurer to be of building better tomorrows, and is a included in both the Dow Jones progressive company in all that it does.
Sustainability World and STOXX European This campaign seeks to communicate Indices.
Additionally, out of 100 global our Forward thinking message to key companies we were ranked second in decision makers across Europe.
our sector by Fortune magazine for The Aviva brand earned further our management of corporate social exposure during the year through sport.
As chair of the We are supporting yachtswoman Dee United Nations Global Compact in the Caffari as she attempts to sail solo, non-stop UK, Aviva continues to lead development around the world against the prevailing in CSR thinking and practice.
winds and currents in the Aviva Challenge.
2 % 120 Total shareholder return 100 80 Jan 03 June 03 Jan 04 June 04 Jan 05 June 05 Dec 05 Aviva FTSE EuroFirst 300 FTSE 300 Life
