The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 3 Chairmans Statement Richard Brewster Directors Review 11 Portfolio Structure This is my first annual report to shareholders since I became Chairman.
I am pleased to 2-3 Objectives and Performance 12-13 United Kingdom be able to comment on a solid year of performance.
The net asset value per share rose 4-5 Directors and Management 14-15 Europe 6-7 Chairmans Statement 16-17 North America 19.5% over the year to 31 October 2005.
This return exceeded the rise of 16.0% in the 8 Highlights of the Year 18-19 Japan FTSE All-Share Index.
The improving revenue account allows us to declare a total 9 Growth in Net Asset Value and Share Price 20-21 Pacific ex Japan dividend increase of 10.4%.
The revenue outlook is positive and we are forecasting a 22-23 Emerging Markets Portfolio Review 24 Performance Attribution minimum total dividend increase of a further 10.0% for 2006.
10 Managers Review 25 Explanation of Movement in Net Asset Value Assets amounted to only 6.8%.
In the past, periods of US interest rate Weaker sterling improved the return from overseas markets and tightening have led to slower economic growth: this scenario does not appear to be reflected in the full valuation of the US our selection of regions and mix of overseas investments were the main contributors to outperformance.
Overall economic conditions stock market.
However, in selective industries interesting and low real interest rates around the world have been supportive investments can be found and we have committed some new for equities during 2005.
Investment returns were higher in all funds to the US portfolio during the year.
regions, with particularly strong performance in developing markets Emerging markets and the Pacific proved to be the best and Japan.
Refined petroleum products and certain commodities performing of our portfolios.
A focussed approach in these such as copper are in structural short supply such that gently rising markets has again yielded performance above the relevant demand has led to higher prices.
All markets have had to contend benchmarks.
With hindsight we should have committed further with the sharply rising oil and commodity prices affecting company funds to these markets, but by nature they are volatile and it is and country prospects to varying degrees.
rare that these stocks rise in price when the US are tightening The gearing of the company has risen modestly during the year interest rates.
A degree of caution is probably appropriate for these areas over the coming year.
At the start of the year our bank borrowings were drawn in US dollars, taking advantage of The UK portfolio has performed broadly in line with the interest rates below 2%.
However, in the first half of the year the underlying market.
Good performance from our holdings in decision was taken to repay these loans and draw down a medium and smaller companies was diluted by an underweight mixture of sterling and Swiss francs.
The US dollar subsequently position in the largest companies, especially the pharmaceuticals rallied against sterling and the switch in loans, effectively and energy stocks.
The UK market has over 22% of its value in removing the hedge on the US portfolio, has been beneficial.
the energy and mining sectors, and these sectors have dominated Gearing is reviewed at all board meetings and we retain an active performance during the year.
policy in respect of both the level of gearing and the currency in which we borrow.
Rising European stock markets continue to confound the sluggish growth forecasts from top-down economists.
We have adopted a For the first time in recent years major markets are dancing to very stock specific investment strategy focussing on service varying tunes.
Japan is cheered on by an apparent end to industries and companies with superior management teams.
This deflation while Western markets are fearful of inflation.
Interest has led to another excellent year of performance.
European rates have been cut in the UK while America is still raising interest companies that have the ability to restructure, move rates.
Consumers are being urged to spend more in Europe and manufacturing eastwards and cut costs are finding that sluggish Asia whilst showing early signs of reigning in spending in the UK growth is not a hindrance to growing profits.
We continue to find and America.
This demonstrates that major markets are at mainland Europe an attractive market despite the recently different stages of their economic cycles and that careful asset announced interest rate rise.
allocation and stock picking remains important.
Our historically low commitment to the US equity market has been vindicated, as Finally to Japan, which is showing the earliest signs of an end to returns lagged behind all other markets again.
Without the the deflationary trends that have lasted over a decade.
It feels premature to herald a return to a growth path for Japan but job strengthening currency, domestic returns in dollar terms 4 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 creation, housing prices and wage inflation are all rising and of global markets and overall investment trust experience will be signalling that negative real interest rates may finally be working.
of great benefit to our Company.
Our exposure to Japan was increased to above 10% of the In the financial year ended 31 October 2005, 4,969,571 ordinary portfolio early in the year before some profits were taken in shares were bought back and cancelled and since the year end a October.
We remain committed to our investment in Japan but further 354,170 ordinary shares have been bought back.
These are looking for a better point to reinvest in a market that in the repurchases at a discount to net asset value per share have added short term looks to be overbought.
value for ongoing shareholders: we will continue to use these Revenue and Dividends powers to selectively enhance the asset value per share.
At this This years revenue return per ordinary share has risen by 12.7% years AGM we will again be seeking authority to buy back shares over last year, to 9.07p.
While there are some special dividends for cancellation, up to 14.99% of the issued share capital.
boosting income, the majority of the increase is due to better As a change to our previous venue, the AGM this year will be than expected dividend income from our investments.
Dividend held at the Institute of Chartered Accountants Hall on Friday 24 growth in the UK has averaged 10% year on year and this has February 2006 at 3 pm.
A map showing the location appears on been matched in Asia and our emerging market investments.
Our manager, Alex Crooke and his team of fund Even America, typically a low payout equity market, has managers will be making a presentation and all shareholders are contributed with companies such as Microsoft paying a special most welcome.
dividend for the first time.
Our forecasts indicate that Outlook companies in general are struggling to find profitable new Economic conditions are tightening as a result of the steady rise projects for the cash they are generating.
in US interest rates, the effect of which is felt all around the To reflect the improved earnings of the Company, we are proposing world.
The US consumer has a vital role to play in global markets a final dividend of 2.43p, making a total of 8.25p, an increase of being the ultimate buyer of a large percentage of manufactured 10.4% for the year.
Following two years of strong growth in the goods in the world and the financial health of US consumers will earnings of the Company, at this early stage of the year we are be critical in maintaining the current supportive backdrop for forecasting a minimum rise in the total dividend per share of 10.0%.
Fears of a housing bubble in the United States may be misplaced but we believe that the key The Board and Annual General Meeting As indicated last year, Michael Moule has decided to retire from risk to our optimism next year is a slowing in spending patterns the board at the forthcoming AGM.
Michaels contribution to the and tightening of credit.
Company over 26 years as our fund manager and 24 years as a Investor sentiment can swing wildly on news of terrorism, surging director has been immense.
His talent for spotting value in areas oil prices or catastrophic natural events.
The last year has ignored by others and his insight into how markets behave, has contained more than its usual share of such events.
However been an inspiration to all of us.
We are particularly fortunate that share prices have continued to rise, climbing this wall of worry.
Alex Crooke succeeded Michael as manager of Bankers as he It is easy to be swung by negative news but what ultimately drives learned so much from working closely with him over many years.
share prices is their valuation.
The marked increase in takeover We will miss Michaels incisive thoughts on investment matters bids, linked to strong corporate balance sheets and under delivered with boundless energy, wit and enthusiasm not just for invested private capital funds, is a sign that share valuations are Bankers but for the investment trust industry as a whole.
This gives me some confidence that stock markets can As we say au revoir to one master of his trade I am particularly continue to move higher in 2006.
The ability of a global growth pleased to announce that we have persuaded another doyen of trust to spread risks and move between markets has shown its the global growth investment trust sector to join our Board.
benefit last year and I believe the same advantages of flexibility and income generation should be seen again this year.
Richard Burns has agreed to become a director with effect from 24 February 2006 as Michael steps down.
Richard Burns is joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford and currently the fund manager of Monks Investment Trust which like Bankers has a fine record.
Richard Brewster, Chairman Richard will be relinquishing his fund management duties and retiring from Baillie Gifford in April and his extensive knowledge 9 January 2006
