Chairmans statement Barclays continued to make good progress Corporate Governance in 2005.
Profit before tax rose by 15%, driven Corporate governance continued to be an a by strong income growth of 23%.
Ensuring appropriate controls b on equity was 21.1% and economic profit and processes are in place is an important increased 12% to 1,752m.
Equally important is the role the Board plays in providing advice to The year saw very strong performances management on achieving strategic goals.
from Barclays Capital, Barclays Global The agendas for the Board meetings are Investors, Barclays Wealth Management and designed to enable it to fulfil both duties.
International Retail and Commercial Banking, and a strong performance from UK Banking.
There were a number of Board changes during 2005.
Dr Jrgen Zech retired as We also saw encouraging trends in a non-executive Director at the Annual the UK Retail Bank as the transformation General Meeting in April and Roger Davis programme already under way continued.
resigned as a Director in December.
I paid tribute to Dr Zech in last years Report and The one mainstream business with lower Accounts and I would like to take the profits this year was Barclaycard.
While opportunity to thank Roger for all his hard business volume and revenue growth work as Head of our UK Banking business.
were strong in Barclaycard, they were not sufficient to offset an increase in credit card Four new Directors joined the Board during loan losses in the UK.
Bob Diamond, President of Barclays and Chief Executive, Investment Banking and We declared a final dividend for the year of Investment Management, became an 17.4p per ordinary share.
This, combined executive Director on 1st June in recognition with the interim dividend of 9.2p per of the increasing importance both of his own ordinary share, gives a total payment for role and of the contribution made by the the year of 26.6p, an increase of 11%.
businesses he leads to the Groups overall The Group delivered a total shareholder profits and growth.
John Sunderland, return share price appreciation plus Chairman of Cadbury Schweppes PLC and dividend growth of just under 9% for the President of the CBI, became a Director year.
For the first two years of our current Matthew W Barrett during the year.
Johns excellent track record four-year goal period 2004-2007, our Chairman and wealth of business experience will be c total shareholder return TSR was 34%.
Robert Steel also joined the Board in June.
He was previously In 2005, we took a controlling 57% stake Vice-Chairman of Goldman Sachs and brings in Absa Group Limited.
Absa is one of the extensive knowledge and experience of top banks in South Africa and has the global financial services and US investment largest retail franchise in this important banking to the Board.
We aim to build the leading Cronj, Chairman of Absa Group Limited, financial services business in South Africa became a non-executive Director in and to become the pre-eminent bank in September following our successful sub-Saharan Africa.
The Absa acquisition acquisition of a majority stake in Absa.
was consistent with our strategic objective Fulvio Conti will be joining the Board with of increasing Barclays non-UK earnings by effect from 1st April 2006.
Fulvio is Chief developing retail and commercial banking Executive Officer of Enel SpA, the Italian operations in attractive overseas markets.
These appointments provide significant additional commercial and For the first two years of our current four-year goal period 2004-2007, our total shareholder return was 34%.
1.2 1.3 international experience to the Board.
over three years to create sustainable sports Sir David Arculus will be retiring from the facilities in communities across the UK.
Board at the Annual General Meeting, having served as a Director for just over nine years.
Economic Outlook His experience and wise counsel will be Global growth slowed to a more sustainable greatly missed.
Finally, it is with great pace of just above 4% in 2005 after reaching sadness that I report the death of Sir Nigel nearly 5% in the previous year.
Nevertheless, Mobbs during the year.
Sir Nigel served with the past two years represent one of the great distinction as a Director for 23 years fastest periods of back-to-back annual until his retirement in 2004. expansion in the global economy since the 1970s.
Moreover, the outlook for 2006 is Corporate Responsibility equally positive, with global growth again We continued to make substantial progress expected to exceed 4%.
The coming year in pursuit of the Boards objective of ensuring should also see some modest rebalancing that Barclays is a leading company in the field of demand with slower growth in the United of corporate responsibility.
For the seventh States offset by a faster pace of expansion in successive year we are producing a separate Europe and Japan.
Growth in the UK also Corporate Responsibility report, reflecting slowed in 2005 to 1.8%, mainly in response the importance your Board attaches to this to higher interest rates.
However, both increasingly complex agenda.
Corporate unemployment and inflation have remained responsibility is, first and foremost, about largely stable although we have seen some responsible business conduct.
For us, it pressure on household cash flows which has is founded on the principles, ethics and led to a deterioration in consumer credit values that Barclays has embodied for quality.
The outlook is for UK economic over 300 years.
growth to increase during 2006 although conditions in the consumer credit sector In the area of financial inclusion, our work are expected to remain challenging.
was recognised by research conducted by the Corporate Citizenship Company, which Strategy Execution commented: Barclays has done most to The strategy we pursue of diversifying advance both thinking and action in Financial both our portfolio of businesses and the Inclusion and its efforts put it ahead of other geographies in which we compete has proved banks assessed worldwide.
The growing contribution of our remained the only financial services company global businesses and of our International in the world to play a role in the Business Retail and Commercial Banking businesses Leaders Initiative on Human Rights and we has reduced our dependence on the home retained our membership of both the Dow market.
This shift is evident in this years Jones Sustainability and FTSE4Good Indices.
It continues to be our goal to generate at least 50% of our earnings from outside the In terms of environmental management, UK while improving the contribution from our Barclays entered the premier league of UK-based businesses.
We are making very companies for the first time, ranking in the good progress towards this goal.
Our overall top 20 of 300 FTSE companies.
We continued strategy remains unchanged.
to expand our extensive community programme, launching our flagship UK community programme, Barclays Spaces for Sports, with two main sites and 40 local sites Matthew W Barrett completed.
This programme will invest 30m Chairman a Total income net of insurance claims.
b Economic profit comprises profit after tax and minority interests, less a charge representing the Groups cost of capital.
c This positions Barclays in the second quartile of its peer group.
For further information, please see page 34.
