4 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Continued success Rod Kent The Groups success in CHAIRMAN 2005 is directly attributable to the restructuring exercise we started in 2004.
Bradford & Bingleys strategy provides the right direction for continued success for a differentiated and innovative specialist mortgage lender.
Bradford & Bingley has grown profits and continued the successful development of its Lending and Retail businesses in 2005.
This performance is particularly pleasing given the extent of the changes that the Group has undergone in the last eighteen months.
Underlying profit increased 11% to 310.1 million and underlying earnings per share increased 9% to 35.4 pence per share.
profit before tax and loss on sale of discontinued operations increased by 14% to 263.5 million 2004: 231.9 million.
Dividend The Board is pleased to propose a final dividend of 12.3 pence per share for payment on 5 May 2006 to shareholders on the register as at 24 March 2006.
If approved, the full year dividend for 2005 will be 18.3 pence per share 2004: 17.1 pence, an increase of 7%.
The Board will continue to seek to balance dividend payments with the capital requirements of the Groups growing Balance Sheet.
Lending Our total lending balances increased 7% to 31.1 billion 2004: 29.0 billion and total new lending was 8.8 billion 2004: 9.2 billion including acquired assets.
CO. UK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 5 WE HAVE GROWN PROFITS WELL AND CONTINUED TOTAL LENDING BALANCES THE SUCCESSFUL DEVELOPMENT OF OUR LENDING AND RETAIL BUSINESSES IN 2005.
THIS PERFORMANCE IS PARTICULARLY PLEASING GIVEN THE EXTENT OF THE CHANGES THAT THE GROUP HAS UNDERGONE 31.1bn IN THE LAST EIGHTEEN MONTHS.
Growth was predominantly driven by our Costs People residential lending business where we grew Our cost cutting initiative has now been Bradford & Bingleys continued success comes balances by 10% to 26.1 billion including successfully concluded.
This has driven a about as a direct result of the efforts of the acquired assets, the Groups best ever wholesale improvement in the cost dynamics people who work for the Group.
We went residential lending performance.
of the Group, driving profit growth in 2005 through substantial change and saw many and allowing us to convert a higher proportion challenges during 2005.
The commitment of Net interest margin decline has slowed of income into benets for our shareholders in our employees has formed the bedrock of our appreciably as our asset and liability mixes the future.
A stronger vigilance against cost has performance during a testing period.
We expect a more stable trend developed within the Group.
Outlook There has been a cost attached to the Groups The Group is well placed moving into 2006.
The arrears performance across all our reorganisation amounting to 7.9 million.
The Bradford & Bingley is stronger, leaner and portfolios has continued to be good.
The Board remains confident that this cost will be better equipped to convert growth into profit.
Groups experience in the specialist lending rapidly offset by the benets of the substantial markets and prudent approach to savings we have achieved.
The mortgage and housing markets are looking underwriting is a substantial driver of this.
robust, our lending pipeline is strong and we In common with financial services rms across expect our chosen segments of the lending Balance Sheet and capital the market, we have experienced an increased market to continue to outperform the wider We have continued to improve the diversity level of claims for compensation for mis-sold mortgage market.
Our Retail businesses will and balance of our funding platform in 2005. investment and endowment products.
This has continue to build on the stronger foundations We made issues through our master trust exceeded the level we had previously we have been laying and we will continue to securitisation programme, our covered bond provided and a further charge of 38.7 million improve our customers experience.
programme and into the wholesale markets.
In 2004 the Group closed its addition, the Savings business has made an independent financial advisory business which Bradford & Bingleys strategic aims are clear and important contribution.
was responsible for selling these products.
the Group will continue to do what it does best in 2006: build our strong specialist lending The Group remains well capitalised and capital Board business and grow our retail operations.
ratios are within target ranges.
I was pleased to welcome two new Executive Directors to the Board in the second half of Lending balances bn Retail the year.
Chris Willford was appointed Group We have made progress with simplifying and Finance Director and Chris Gillespie was 05 31.1 04 29.0 enhancing our customer proposition in our retail appointed Group Lending Director.
efficiency gains made in 2004 have 02 20.5 been improved upon and our partnership with I would like to express my sincere thanks to 01 18.7 L&G has continued to be fruitful.
Rosemary Thorne, who left the Board and the Group in late 2005, for her contribution over Savings balances Savings has had a strong year with balances the last six years.
bn increasing by 1.5 billion to 17.7 billion.
