qxp 14 11 05 4:19 pm Page 4 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Chairmans Statement The past year has been rewarding for your Company with strong performance in both absolute and relative terms.
The Companys Net Asset Value NAV per share increased by 44.4% on a total return basis compared to a rise in the Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index our benchmark of 30.6%.
The MSCI World Index rose 18.7%, while the FTSE All-Share rose 24.9%.
Over three years the NAV total return for your shares has grown by 126.3% compared to 68.5% for our benchmark and we remain 1st out of 33 Global Growth Trusts over three and five years.
Iain Samuel Robertson CBE Chairman The markets were surprisingly strong during the year as relatively easy monetary policy in developed economies provided a positive environment for equities.
Strong stock selection and a general narrowing of discounts in value stocks allowed your Company to outperform its benchmark.
While narrowing discounts are good for our past performance, the corollary is that expectations for future performance should be reduced.
As always, our Manager has been seeking new areas of opportunity to exploit Our look-through and further elaboration is made in the Investment Managers Review.
Despite these underlying efforts, sales of investments have been high throughout the year and liquidity levels have risen as a result.
Following three strong years of performance, we are comfortable portfolio is well taking some profits and waiting for attractive new investment ideas to emerge.
diversified Your Company has always sought to make positive absolute returns in a risk-controlled manner.
Our look-through underlying portfolio is well diversified by geography, by by geography, by sector, and by company.
In addition, investments are preferably made in companies sector, and that stand at a discount to NAV and not highly geared.
Thus although our shares stand at a premium to NAV we believe that our share price remains at a discount to the net by company asset value of the underlying assets in our portfolio.
The return attributable to our equity holders on the revenue account has increased over the year due to changes in the portfolio and the decision implemented last year on the proportion of management fees charged to income.
There is no current intention to revise the allocation of management fees between income and capital further and, as a consequence, the Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend from 1.3p to 1.6p per share, an increase of just over 29% in the total dividends for the year.
From this new base we would expect to return to a more normal progressive dividend policy in future years.
In addition, the Board is pleased to recommend a special dividend this year of a further 1.4p per share to reflect the higher levels of income generated on the increased liquidity which we have held during the year.
Your Board has sought to maintain its focus on the investment performance of the Company while seeking to ensure that Shareholders assets are appropriately 4 19897 MOD BEST p1-23.
qxp 12 11 05 6:58 am Page 5 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 safeguarded in a strong control environment.
The Board has had no hesitation in renewing the Companys Management Agreement with Asset Value Investors Ltd AVI in view of the investment performance and well controlled day to day operations of the Company.
Our next set of Accounts will have to be prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
In addition to requiring us to report dividends in the period in which they are approved rather than in the period to which they relate, we shall be required to move to bid rather than mid-market prices in valuing our investments which, as at 30 September 2005, would have led to a reduction in NAV of an estimated 1.8p per share.
John Pennink at AVI has delivered another excellent year and I am sure all Shareholders will join the Board in congratulating him.
As a result of this outperformance over a number of years, our shares now trade on a premium.
While this is gratifying as a reflection of the good work done by our Manager, we feel obliged to caution that there is no guarantee the rating can be maintained.
As always, short-term returns may fluctuate whilst we aim to achieve positive long term performance.
During the year, the Board carried out an evaluation of its Directors, Chairman, the Board as a whole and Committees.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the Directors retiring this year by rotation are Peter Allen and Rosamund Blomfield-Smith, both of whom bring a wealth of experience to the Board and I have no hesitation in recommending their re-election.
In addition, having served as a Director for more than nine years, I am also standing for re-election.
The Board does not believe that length of service itself should disqualify a Director and in proposing my re-election the Board has taken into account the requirements of the revised Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees periodically.
As in previous years, the Directors would like to invite Shareholders to a buffet lunch following the AGM.
If you would like to attend, please could you confirm on the enclosed reply paid card.
Iain Samuel Robertson CBE Chairman 15 November 2005 5
