Caledonia Investments plc 02 Annual report 2005 Chairmans statement Results I am delighted to report that our second year as an investment trust has been another successful one.
We are pleased once again to have delivered excellent results for shareholders with total shareholder return over five and ten years outperforming our benchmark of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index by 133% and 111% respectively, which is considerably ahead of the outperformance recorded a year ago.
It has also been an eventful year in that we found a satisfactory solution to the ill-considered attempts to liquidate Caledonia and destroy a company with a proud record of delivering good value for its shareholders over a long time frame.
This is fully explained under Elective special dividend below.
Share price We are pleased that our continued growth in net assets per share amounting to some 21% over the year has been complemented Peter Buckley by a further reduction in the discount of our share price to our Chairman underlying assets.
This discount has narrowed from 30% two years ago to 21% a year ago and now to 12% at the close of the year under review.
The discount is slightly above the average of our Global Growth sector peer group, and still well above some of the other top performers in this sector with whom we can justiably compare ourselves.
We do well to remember however that we do not control our share price, though we have worked diligently to create greater awareness of our good long term performance and particularly with retail investors whom we Caledonias second year believe to be natural owners of our shares.
We shall continue with this effort as Tim Ingram explains in his chief executives report, but the restoration of stability within our shareholder base as an investment trust is likely also to have contributed to this lower discount so that it will prove much more challenging to continue this trend from now has been successful, onwards, which may in turn affect our total return performance.
Nonetheless, we believe that our long established strategy of taking significant stakes in businesses of which we have a good with significant understanding, with particular emphasis on identifying sound managements, should continue to deliver good long term net asset value performance.
outperformance again Dividend recorded against our We are pleased to recommend a final dividend of 19.5 pence per share bringing the total for the year to 28.2 pence.
This amounts to an increase of 4.4% and maintains our policy of seeking to benchmark.
achieve progressive annual dividend payments, which we have now delivered for 38 successive years.
Elective special dividend In July 2004, the elective special dividend and reduction of capital that had been proposed to resolve the long running dispute amongst the shareholders of Caledonias largest shareholder, The Cayzer Trust Company, in which two institutional shareholders had also become involved, became effective.
This dispute had been damaging to Caledonias business model, which is founded on being a stable investor, willing and able to take the longer term view.
Under these proposals, all shareholders were offered the opportunity to receive an elective special dividend, on up to two-ninths of their shareholdings, of an amount based on an 18% discount to the companys net asset value per share, with subsequent cancellation of those shares on which the dividend was paid through a Court approved reduction of capital.
I am pleased Caledonia Investments plc 03 Annual report 2005 to report that, aside from The Cayzer Trust Company, which had Board undertaken in advance to take up its full entitlement in order to We have taken the opportunity to strengthen our board over facilitate the buy-out of its dissident shareholders, and Hermes, the past six months.
I was pleased to welcome Richard Goblet which we expected to participate given its previous publicly dAlviella, chief executive of Sofina, the Belgium-based expressed views in support of the liquidation of Caledonia, investment company, to our board as a non-executive director the shares cancelled in respect of our other shareholders only in January and more recently, in April, Jamie Cayzer-Colvin and amounted to some 1% of our overall share capital.
This outcome Will Wyatt as executive directors.
Given our interest in nding enabled us to put an end to the misplaced and potentially suitable investment opportunities on the Continent, exemplied destabilising attempts by a small handful of shareholders to by our recent investment in Cobepa, and Sonas not dissimilar liquidate Caledonia by paying out 88m, or less than 10% of our investment philosophy to our own, Richard Goblets wide shareholders funds.
We were most encouraged by this support investment experience of the continent of Europe is a valuable and I would like to thank our many shareholders who believe in added resource.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin and Will Wyatt, who have our long term approach and who chose to remain with us.
It is worked for Caledonia since 1995 and 1997 respectively and who good to know that the 88m outow of funds has been more than both became associate directors three years ago, are responsible made up by the subsequent increase in the value of our assets for a growing number of recent investment initiatives.
have a younger board which is positive, whilst maintaining the experience which is crucial to our long term approach.
Portfolio In my interim statement, I reported on the reduced weighting Sir David Kinloch retired as an executive director in January 2004 in our portfolio of our two largest holdings, Close Brothers and on reaching the normal retirement age, but remained as a Kerzner International KI, where disposals had netted proceeds non-executive director until the conclusion of last years annual of some 91m.
These rebalancing issues are ones of success general meeting.
Accordingly, he left the board during the year given the strong share price performance of these companies under review and I would wish to repeat my thanks to him for over time and we took advantage of an even higher price for his valuable service to Caledonia since the company took to its KI shares in February of this year and realised a further 28m.
Sadly, Michael Wyatt also decided to retire from These investments still remain our two largest holdings, at the board at the close of the financial year.
His contribution over 14% and 12% of our portfolio respectively at the year end.
30 years as a director has been huge and his steady counsel The chief executives report gives a more detailed commentary through the enormous changes which have taken place with the on our portfolio.
business over that period has stood the company in great stead.
He was deputy chairman from 1994 until 2001 and became a Economic and political background non-executive director in 2002.
I would wish to thank him most Over the years, I have made brief reference to the economic wholeheartedly on behalf of all our shareholders.
background against which we operate with the inevitable bias which is imposed by the incumbent political faction.
I have also Staff consistently highlighted the damage imposed on our economy Once again I would like to pay tribute to the unstinting efforts by our failure to reject the political and federalist agenda emanating of our focused management team in Cayzer House and for its from Brussels, as against one seeking to build a more open commitment to continuing to build Caledonia for the benefit or common marketplace.
However, we have rather missed the of all our shareholders.
The consistency of good culture in any bus on the latter, for the world is now our marketplace not the business is a key ingredient for success and I believe we score historic boundaries of Europe as recently expanded.
It is therefore well on this count, with a strong will to preserve this special encouraging to see the groundswell of opinion recognising the feature.
In addition to thanking the home team, I would also shortcomings of an unelected and unaccountable body in Brussels like to extend these thanks to all those who have done well for which seeks extravagantly to build an ivory tower.
The forthcoming us in our investee companies.
referenda are pivotal to this issue but, even if the proposals for the new European Constitution are rejected, the challenge will still Outlook remain to undo much of the stultifying legislation which has been It is normally difficult to interpret the crystal ball, but our view imposed unilaterally on the business community.
tends on the cautious side.
deficits and consumer debt in the USA are high and the latter is repeated in the UK with the added The recent election has sadly perpetuated a regime whose issue of rising Government spending.
However, growth over economic doctrines are gradually worsening the outlook for the medium to longer term in Asia and the Far East, where we business in this country.
Most leading economic bodies have are inclined to seek some investment opportunities, looks recently warned of the growing public sector deficit with its interesting.
We shall bear these factors in mind as we move inbuilt inefficiencies and of the likelihood of yet higher taxation.
forward in the belief that our philosophy should continue to The awed idealism attaching to this burgeoning Government deliver good value for shareholders.
expenditure has not yet fully dawned but it inevitably will and this causes us to be cautious on the investment front until the storm develops more fully and realism looks like prevailing.
