4 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Barrie Cottingham Chairmans Statement It gives me great pleasure to report the consumer credit division are single premium product provides, another year of excellent results for required to complete the prescribed particularly in times of sickness and the group with profit before tax training and accreditation to ensure unemployment.
The sale of PPI increasing by 12.6% to 115.1 million that the group maintains appropriate products has been regulated by the and earnings per share up by 12.5% standards of customer care and FSA since 14 January 2005 and to 24.6p.
currently contributes around 11% of the groups annual revenue.
The Board is recommending an The Competition Commissions increased final dividend of 10.65p per Emerging Thinking paper on its inquiry The Consumer Credit Amendment Bill, share payable on 16 May 2006, into the home collected credit market which amends the 1974 Consumer compared to 9.45p paid last year.
This, was issued in autumn 2005.
In line with Credit Act, has passed through the together with the interim dividend of the groups strategy, home collected House of Commons and will be 5.05p per share, gives a total dividend lending continues to be reduced and, at presented to the House of Lords for the year of 15.7p, an increase of 31 December 2005, represented less shortly, for final enactment of primary 12.1% over the previous year.
than 8% of the total consumer credit legislation by spring 2006.
We have changes contained within the Bill, As an alternative to receiving the cash continued to co-operate fully with the which are designed to create a fairer dividend, shareholders in the United Commission in both public and private credit market to protect consumers, Kingdom, excluding the Channel hearings and to maintain regular are expected to be introduced over a Islands, will again be offered the dialogue with the inquiry team.
As a responsible opportunity to have their dividends Commissions current thinking does not lender, Cattles fully supports the reinvested in the companys shares appear to significantly impact the group positive actions being taken to through participation in our Dividend and we look forward to the strengthen existing legislation and Reinvestment Plan.
Commissions Provisional Findings regulation in the consumer credit paper which is expected to be market.
The consumer credit industry We also welcome the recommendations continues to be subject to increased The OFT is to commence a market of the Hampton Report and the Better levels of regulation and supervision.
study into Payment Protection Regulation Task Force Report Less is The sale and distribution of the Insurance PPI in spring this year, More.
The group is participating in groups mortgages and insurance which is due to be completed by April discussions with HM Treasury, the products are now regulated by the 2007.
The group offers optional Department of Trade & Industry, Financial Services Authority FSA.
All insurance to those eligible customers the Confederation of British Industry, the relevant customer facing employees of who value the comfort which this Institute of Directors and our trade Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 5 associations on the important issue of Finance will enhance the range of the better and single regulation, as Boards existing skills.
referred to in the Hampton Report.
As previously reported, I shall be Our People standing down as Chairman and retiring The dedication, skills and as a director of the company at the professionalism of our employees are a conclusion of the Annual General considerable factor in the success of Meeting on 11 May 2006.
Regulatory requirements thoroughly enjoyed my 10 years as a and additional demands from the director of Cattles and it has been a introduction of International Financial great privilege to be your Chairman for Reporting Standards IFRS, have the past seven years.
required extraordinary commitment Future across all levels of the business.
On behalf of the Board, I should like to I am delighted that our Deputy thank all our employees for their Chairman, Norman Broadhurst, an tremendous efforts throughout the year.
independent non-executive director since April 2001, will succeed me Board as Chairman.
Normans extensive I am delighted that Alan McWalter and experience will be of considerable value Margaret Young have joined the Board to the continuing development of the as independent non-executive group and I wish him every success.
Alans experience in retail The Board looks forward to making marketing and business development, further progress in 2006. gained particularly from his previous position as marketing director of Marks & Spencer plc, will be of particular value to the group.
Margaret is currently senior independent non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Uniq plc and her background as a Managing Director of Barrie Cottingham Credit Suisse First Boston and as a Chairman director of NatWest Markets Corporate 16 March 2006
