04 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Implementing our strategy effectively Chairmans statement Rewarding our shareholders Your board has again fully reviewed and In 2005 BOC raised its first interim dividend to 15.9p.
Combined approved BOCs strategy, which is being with the second interim dividend of 25.3p, this represents an increase of three per cent on the previous year as we continue to build effectively implemented by Tony Isaac and his our dividend cover towards two-times over the medium term.
The strategy has seen Your board has decided to raise the first interim dividend to be paid on 1 February 2006 by 2.5 per cent to 16.3p.
BOC confirm its leading position in Asia, I have updated the graphs I have shown here every year since 2001. develop a strong base in China and invest They show BOCs total shareholder return since October 2000 strongly in other growth markets.
It has seen compared with the FTSE100 and our major gases competitors.
We have continued to outperform the FTSE100.
Industrial gases a continuing commitment to safety and to companies have proved to be a rewarding investment over recent improve the efficiency and environmental years and in the last year or so we have matched our competitors performance, although a gap remains from earlier years.
In his performance of our operations.
It has review, Tony Isaac will explain in more detail how we have seen the divestment of underperforming progressed this year.
businesses allied to a well implemented Corporate Governance acquisition strategy.
This year your company has completed its work to comply with one new set of requirements, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, and has made good progress on two others, namely changing over to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and meeting the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The quarterly results to be announced in February 2006 will be the first in accordance with IFRS.
We estimate that meeting the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley cost your company some 10 million this year.
We are likely to spend the same next year before the costs reduce somewhat.
BOC has to comply with these provisions because we are registered in the US, but being a complex and diverse business working globally means that the cost of such compliance is very high.
Next year we will, in common with all UK companies, publish an operating and financial review OFR as part of our annual report.
The intention of the OFR is to help you, our shareholders, assess our strategies and the likelihood of their success.
External checks and reporting requirements may help but I believe the best assurance for shareholders is to ensure high standards of integrity and transparency throughout the organisation, overseen by a strong and independent group of non-executive directors.
It has a strong and well-implemented Code of Chairmans statement 05 Conduct and a management team committed to the principles of Board of Directors accountability, collaboration, transparency and stretch, known in We appointed two new executive directors this year: Kent Masters, BOC as ACTS.
chief executive for Industrial and Special Products, joined the board in March, replacing John Walsh who resigned to return to his native Your board regularly reviews the management of our social, United States: and Alan Ferguson joined in September as Group environmental and ethical risks.
These have now been integrated into finance director in place of Ren Mdori who resigned to take up a the companys overall risk management programme.
Each year our similar role at Anglo American.
Rebecca McDonald was appointed performance is judged against criteria set by the UKs Business in the as a non-executive director in July.
Rebecca is president, gas and Community BiTC.
To be as transparent as possible we publish on power, for BHP Billiton.
During the year two non-executive directors our website, boc.
com, both our comprehensive submission to BiTC resigned: Iain Napier, following his appointment as deputy chairman of and its independent assessment of our performance.
Imperial Tobacco, and Julie Baddeley because of increasing demands An important feature of BOCs corporate responsibility programme on her time.
John Walsh and Ren Mdori each served BOC for is to enable people at all levels of the organisation to become involved some 20 years, Iain Napier and Julie Baddeley for a somewhat shorter and support things that matter to them.
Our joint giving scheme is an time, and I would like to thank them all for their contributions.
This year countries around the Indian Ocean suffered from Every year we review the performance of the board and each the appalling effects of the tsunami.
Our businesses in the countries individual director.
In alternate years, which included 2005, we affected responded immediately with medical oxygen and with conduct these reviews with external facilitation.
They confirmed that other practical help.
BOC extended its joint giving scheme to match each director contributes effectively and is committed to his or her two-to-one our employees donations to the relief effort for both the role at BOC.
BOC again responded when the Pakistan earthquake struck in October 2005.
In total the community Thanks of BOC gave over 570,000 to the tsunami appeal and we await the BOCs 30,000 people around the world provide products and final totals for hurricane Katrina and the Pakistan earthquake.
services that are essential to everyday life.
I thank them for their One of our US subsidiaries, along with other companies in the dedication and professionalism.
I thank the customers they serve for welding products industry, has been the subject of allegations that entrusting their business to BOC.
I thank all those with whom we manganese in welding fumes causes Parkinsons disease or symptoms work and in the communities where we operate for their support.
Again this year there were no adverse jury And I thank you, our shareholders, for your continuing support.
verdicts: the only adverse jury verdict was in 2003 and this is the subject of appeal in the Illinois court system.
Total shareholder return October 2000 October 2005 BOC relative to FTSE100 compared Rob Margetts Total shareholder return with major gases companies since 1 October 2000 relative to respective local indices Chairman Percentage Percentage 90 120 BOC 100 FTSE100 60 80 30 60 0 40 -30 20 Oct-00 Oct-01 Oct-02 Oct-03 Oct-04 Oct-05 0 BOC relative Other gases to FTSE100 companies
