At a glance 2005 Revenue Bodycote Thermal Processing 1.5 472.4m Operating 176 plants in 19 countries: an unrivalled strategically located network, experienced in 86.5 supporting large multi-national customers and their supply chains, as well as local niche specialists and providing a vital link in the manufacturing process for the automotive, aerospace, construction, power generation, electronics, consumer products and general engineering industries.
Heat Treatments and Metal Joining 35.2 HIP Vacuum and sealed quench and induction heat treatment, carburising, carbonitriding, gas and plasma nitriding, nickel, copper, silver and gold brazing, hardening, tempering, kolsterising, low pressure carburising and electron beam welding.
Expanding in Eastern Europe, Asia and other 349.2 HT developing economies and developing low pressure carburising technology in Europe and the USA.
Hot Isostatic Pressing Applying the unique product enhancement and novel material production benefits of this advanced technology to an increasing number of customers in precision foundry, power generation, aerospace, automotive, medical, precision tooling, and electronic engineering.
Managing the western worlds largest HIP capacity at 11 locations across 6 countries.
Developing the Densal process and other new materials and manufacturing techniques by collaborative projects with market-leading OEMs.
Surface Engineering Improving the performance, durability and appearance of components and tools by the application of functional and decorative coatings utilising sherardizing, mechanical cladding, plasma spray, organic, 2004 Revenue 30.8 anodizing, HVOF and specialist ceramic coatings processes.
Establishing CoatAlloy, the unique 457.2m new Bodycote coating service for the petrochemical industry.
65.6 Bodycote Testing Offering a fully accredited group of 76 testing laboratories in 12 countries for producers and other users, serving international customers and providing a beneficial outsource option for advanced businesses.
Measuring, inspecting and certifying the quality and reliability of materials and products 32.1 HIP for many clients in the fields of civil engineering, food and household goods, pharmaceuticals, energy and transportation.
Bodycote Testing also provides services to protect the environment and workplace.
328.7 HT Materials Testing Mechanical, metallurgical, physical, radiographic and chemical testing of ferrous and non-ferrous alloys, building products, composites and plastics, oils wear and high voltage and the lifetime assessment of polymers.
Bodycote Testing provides vital support services for manufacturers and plant operators.
Health Sciences Testing, evaluation, research and development for food, pharmaceutical and consumer products and Thermal Processing asbestos building surveys.
Bodycote Health Sciences support a multi-national client base in a highly Heat Treatment HT regulated laboratory environment.
Hot Isostatic Pressing HIP Engineering and Technology Testing Providing advanced airframe and aero-engine testing for material integrity, oil field, corrosion testing, automotive engine development and production testing.
Bodycote Engineering and Technology Discontinued delivers advanced solutions in a cost effective outsourced environment.
Environmental Sampling and testing hazardous materials, soils and water, eco-toxicology and stack emission sampling.
Bodycote Environmental brings scientific measurement to facilitate environmental studies and management.
Bodycote PVD Coatings, IonBond strategic alliance Expanding the international provision of PVD coatings services by delivering product enhancing PVD coatings for tooling, tribological and decorative applications, from 46 PVD coatings centres in 17 countries.
com audiocast Bodycote continually improves the website offerings for both customers and investors.
The most recent is the addition of an audio webcast of Bodycotes 2005 results presentation in the Investor Relation section of the website.
We invite you to view and to listen by visiting www.
com audiocast Cover images: A nickel brazed joint top Duplex stainless steel middle Nitrocarburised surface bottom.
