02 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 chairmans 300m 501m returned to shareholders operating profit statement through the share buy-back programme As I travel around and talk to our people produced strong results again, with all its The year covered by this report has been it is clear that there is a new sense of core brands enjoying continued success.
purpose and a greater energy throughout a period of intense change for Boots.
In Group sales for the year were 5.47bn, the organisation.
Operating profit was 8.7% lower at spite of some challenging competition Of course, change is never easy and the 501m.
The proposed final dividend of 21p and a downturn in the consumer past 12 months have not always been will take the total payout to shareholders for straightforward.
But, against a challenging the year to 30.1p an increase of 1%.
The economy, I am pleased to report that background we have produced good results.
results mean that there will be no bonus We have the right strategy in place under payments this year for almost all our much of the work we identied as exactly the right management team a management team as we have not hit necessary to make this business more team which is doing a great job in a very our internal targets.
modern, competitive and efficient has We have continued our share buy-back Results and shareholder return programme, carrying out 300m of been successfully implemented.
I can Our results for 2004 05 show the early repurchases through the year.
This is part of results of our attempts to rebase this a major commitment to return surplus cash condently say that Boots is a very business.
We are weaning the company to shareholders and make the balance sheet different business than it was a year away from its reliance on charging ever more efficient.
It has already returned nearly higher prices to a declining customer base.
1.7bn over the last three years in the form ago and one much better able to Our strategy involves lowering prices of share buy-backs and dividends with for shoppers, offering them increased further returns to come as part of the deal with the challenges that it faces.
convenience and building on the trust commitment to the 700m share buy-back and expertise that customers have in our programme made in May 2004 and the products and our people.
That means more promised return of a significant proportion focus than ever before on health and our of the proceeds of the BHI sale.
Corporate development Boots The Chemists traded strongly for most As well as working to modernise our retail of the year, although it was not immune business, we have tackled some strategic from the slowdowns that hit the whole of issues.
In September we said we would the high street in the run up to Christmas exit the markets for laser eye correction, and the New Year.
In the middle of that, dentistry, chiropody and laser hair removal however, we enjoyed our third strong after deciding they would not make Christmas in a row with sales up by a further acceptable returns.
That gives us confidence that our In April we announced that we planned to underlying trading remains strong.
Further sell Boots Healthcare International.
BHI has evidence is provided by the growth our gone from strength to strength under Boots pharmacies achieved with their best ownership.
It is now entering the final year total operating profit dividends turnover performance for five years.
Boots Healthcare before exceptional items pence including share of joint ventures of a successful growth strategy which has International BHI, our over-the-counter m m seen profits increase signicantly from healthcare manufacturing business, 01 579 02 624 03 547 04 549 05 501 01 26.3 02 27.4 03 28.6 04 29.8 05 30.1 01 5,221 02 5,330 03 5,322 04 5,326 05 5,471 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 03 2.7% increase in group sales 50m to nearly 90m, with a forecast of change is no mean feat.
But this will be an further growth this year to 100m.
No retail business can remains a relatively small player in a afford to sit still these days.
consolidating global market and is more I have said that the last 12 months have not likely to gain scale under separate, more always been easy.
And all the signs suggest focussed, ownership.
It is, as yet, early days that things are likely to carry on being tough.
But market conditions are We will manage the business as tightly as good and we are committed to returning ever.
But Boots remains a successful and a significant proportion of the proceeds profitable business which historically has to shareholders.
We have At the same time, we said we intended to no choice but to continue taking the tough make the most of our property portfolio with decisions needed to ensure the continued the sale and leaseback of 300 small stores success of Boots.
The move is expected to Continuing our journey raise about 250m: money that will be used At the end of my first full year as chairman to pay down short-term borrowings.
of Boots, I remain as convinced as ever that Management change we are on the right path.
The next year, Howard Dodd, our chief financial officer, however, will be full of challenges.
We know decided that after three years with Boots that our continued determination to aim for it was time to look for a new challenge.
growth while completing our modernisation I would like to offer my warm thanks to programme is not going to be easy.
Howard and wish him well for the future.
He It will take five years to thoroughly overhaul completely modernised the finance function this business and we are less than half way in Boots and was a real driving force for through the process.
Sir Nigel Rudd Gradually, step by step, we know we are At the same time I would like to welcome with Ruth at making a difference.
There is no other prescriptions Scott Wheway, who joined the executive strategy.
It is just a question of waiting for counter, committee in the New Year as Retail Director.
the results to really show through.
However, High Street Scott, who was previously with Tesco, has Kensington we believe that those results will become as already started to make a difference in this apparent to those outside Boots as they are key role and I know he will continue to help to us inside.
us drive change through the organisation.
Managing the challenges The scale of the work carried out in Boots over the past year has not always been visible to the outside world.
But it is clear to me and the rest of the board.
Steering a business through that kind of seismic Sir Nigel Rudd
