Chairmans Statement CAPITAL PERFORMANCE Looking to the future, the Board is conscious of the I reported at the interim stage that the UK equity importance of dividend income to shareholders and market as a whole had made little progress in the first will begin to increase payments as soon as it feels that five months of the year from April 2004, and that much it would be prudent to do so.
of the growth in performance seen at that time had occurred in the month of September.
This buoyant SHARE PRICE environment continued for the next three months to Although the share price performed well for most of the end of calendar 2004 after which the market the period, it weakened, relative to the market, moved sideways before falling back in the last few towards the end of the year, particularly in March.
weeks of the financial year to March 2005.
Overall the Overall, the share price rose by 9.7% during the year, FTSE All-Share Index capital only rose by 11.9% in the implying an increase from 10.5% to 13.9% in the year under review, or 15.6% on a total return basis.
discount to NAV debt marked to market.
This tendency to widening discounts which has been seen Against this background, the Company modestly by others in the Companys peer group of large exceeded its capital performance objective.
Net Asset investment trusts reflects, inter alia, weak demand from Value per share NAV with debt at par increased by personal savers in what had historically been the tax- 12.7%, some 0.8% more than the benchmark Index.
driven peak season for share buying.
It underlines the NAV with debt marked to market increased more importance of the Managers increasing commitment significantly, by 14.1%.
On a total return basis, NAV to promote the benefits of the Company to potential increased by 16.3% and 17.9% respectively, compared new investors.
to an increase of 15.6% in the comparable Index.
The Board also sees merit in buying back shares for INCOME PERFORMANCE cancellation where this reduces the oversupply which I have explained in previous statements that lack of exists in the market from time to time, and also dividend cover has led the Board from October 2003 increases the NAV for the benefit of remaining to recommend maintaining the dividend at the shareholders.
During the year the Company bought previous level rather than back 3.35 million shares 1.4% increasing it in line with the of those outstanding, Net Asset Value per share NAV with Companys objective.
year to March 2004 the Subsequent to the year end a debt at par increased by 12.7%, some Company paid dividends further 750,000 shares were 0.8% more than the benchmark Index.
which exceeded net income acquired for cancellation on 17 by 2.1m.
I reported at that May enhancing NAV by a time that this deficit was less than originally anticipated further 0.07%.
A special resolution to renew the because two of our large investments declared Boards powers in this regard will be proposed at the dividends, totalling about 1.1m, with an ex-dividend Annual General Meeting.
date earlier than in previous years.
These dividends fell into last years income, where normally they might PORTFOLIO STRUCTURE AND RISK FACTORS have been expected to be recorded in the year under I advised shareholders at the interim stage that the review.
Thus, without this one off benefit last years Companys portfolio had been re-allocated within deficit would have been 3.2m.
In the current year to Fidelity from four to three managers.
This change was 31 March 2005 the income deficit has fallen to 1.8m.
made to provide an increase both in the income Despite this underlying improvement, the Board does generated by the fund and in overall portfolio risk, the not believe it would be appropriate at this time to latter with the objective of creating more potential for recommend any increase in the final dividend.
The out-performance without undue volatility.
1.8m deficit will be charged to revenue reserves which after this transfer exceed 32m.
In 2003 the Board agreed with the Manager that an amount of the Companys borrowings within the range Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General 80-120m was to be invested in the equity market.
Meeting, an unchanged final dividend of 8.95 pence This range was reviewed during the year and increased per share will be paid on 22 July 2005 to shareholders to 90-130m.
On average, gearing of marginally more on the register at close of business on 3 June exthan 100m was utilised during the year.
dividend date will be 1 June 2005.
If the final dividend is approved by shareholders, the years total payment The Board will continue carefully to monitor the will be 13.15 pence per share.
At the share price at the position of the two Debenture Stocks.
We remain close of business on 23 May 2005 this is equivalent to currently of the view that redemption on the terms a yield of 4% - about 30% above the 3.13% yield of the available at present are not in the long-term interests FTSE All-Share Index on the same date.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Page 3 Chairmans Statement THE BOARD PROSPECTS Eileen Mackay who has served as a Director since 1996 There are increasing concerns about growth in the UK and more recently as Senior Independent Director has, economy which has historically been highly to the regret of her colleagues, decided not to stand for dependent on consumer spending.
On the other re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Eileen has hand, commentators are now more sanguine about made a significant contribution to the Company and we the trend in interest rates, and overall regard the UK shall all miss her strong intellect, applied always in a as one of the more defensive of the major world thoroughly practical manner.
I would like to thank her on economies.
Despite the benchmark Index growing by behalf of shareholders and the Board for all she has done over 50% since mid-March 2003, the UK equity for the Company and for the market is regarded as good support which she has given to value relative to the US and Despite the benchmark Index growing me personally.
The Board has major European markets.
appointed Richard Barfield as Corporate earnings generally by over 50% since mid-March 2003, the Senior Independent Director, appear to be soundly based UK equity market is regarded as good with effect from 20 July 2005. and the Managers own value relative to the US and major forecasts are for continuing European markets.
We have today announced that strong increases in cash flow Sir Nigel Wicks has been and dividends from the appointed to the Board with companies in the underlying effect from 24 May 2005.
After industrial experience with portfolio.
Against this background, the Board British Petroleum, Sir Nigel had a distinguished career in believes that The Edinburgh Investment Trust the Civil Service, retiring in 2000 as Second Permanent provides an attractive vehicle for long-term Secretary International Finance, H. M. Treasury.
More investment in the UK equity market.
recently, he served as Chairman of the Committee for Standards in Public Life, and remains Deputy Chairman of Euroclear plc, and a non-executive director of Morgan Scott Dobbie Stanley Bank International Ltd.
I am confident that Sir Nigels knowledge and experience will strengthen the Chairman Board, and we all look forward to working with him.
24 May 2005 Page 4 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005
