Chairmans Statement The company continues to meet the objective of tracking the performance of the S&P 500 Composite Index.
In the 12 months to 31 January 2004, the net asset value per share NAV rose by 19.3% to 512.50p compared to an increase of 19.4% in the index in sterling terms.
The companys share price rose by 19.9% over the year to 485.0p which represented a discount of 5.4% to the net asset value.
At the start of the financial year, the share price was standing at a discount of 5.9%.
Sir Angus Grossart In the first half of the year, a swift conclusion to the that the trust would continue to be managed by the war in Iraq and a recovery in corporate profits same investment and secretarial team.
pushed share prices sharply higher.
Stronger economic data provided further support for equity markets in On 16 October 2003, the company announced that the second half although a key factor for UK it had agreed with Edinburgh Fund Managers to investors was the weakness of the US dollar.
Over the change the period of notice required in order to financial year, the US dollar sterling exchange rate fell terminate the Management and Secretarial from $1.64 to $1.82 so that the rise of 32.2% in the Agreement from twelve months to three months.
In S&P 500 Composite Index in local currencies addition, it was agreed that the management fee translated to only 19.4% in sterling terms.
payable to Edinburgh Fund Managers be reduced from 0.25% per annum to 0.20% per annum.
No Revenue compensation was payable in respect of these US companies have started to increase distributions amendments.
All other aspects of the Management to shareholders following changes in US taxation.
and Secretarial Agreement remain unchanged.
The movement in the US dollar sterling exchange rate however has militated against these increases Marketing flowing through to shareholders and revenue per Your board continues to promote the company share fell from 4.98p to 4.94p.
Your board is through the managers marketing initiative which recommending a final dividend of 2.85p which will provides a series of savings schemes through which take total dividends for the year to 4.85p, which is savers can invest in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust in a unchanged from last year.
If the US dollar weakens low cost and convenient manner.
The company further in the year ahead, revenue per share may not contributed 104,000 to this initiative during the be sufficient to cover fully the current level of past year.
Up to date information about the dividend distributions to shareholders.
The company company is available on the companys website on however has revenue reserves of 1.67p per share and www.
your board is able to utilise these reserves, if appropriate, to maintain dividends to shareholders.
Corporate Governance In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council issued Manager a revised Combined Code which incorporates Our investment manager, Edinburgh Fund Managers recommendations made by the Higgs Review and plc, was acquired by Aberdeen Asset Management the Smith Report.
These revisions come into effect PLC during the financial year.
Your board sought for reporting years beginning on or after and received assurances from both companies that 1 November 2003.
The company has reviewed the the management of index tracker funds will be an revised Combined Code and has enhanced its important part of the combined group strategy and corporate governance procedures accordingly.
PAGE PAGE 3 3 Edinburgh US T Edinburgh US Tracker T racker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 rust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chairmans Statement Board of Directors Since the investment objective of the company was Archie Hunter was appointed to the board on revised in June 1997, the capital performance has 1 September 2003.
Mr Hunter, who is a chartered matched that of the index to within 0.3% per accountant, spent his career in the accountancy annum.
The annualised return for the companys net profession and is a former President of the Institute asset values per share for the period 31 July 1997 to of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
He will be 31 January 2004 was 1.27% per annum compared standing for re-election at the Annual General to an annualised return of 0.99% per annum for the Meeting.
I believe that our investment performance, aided by low management and administration costs, It was with great sadness that we learnt of the death as evidenced by the total expense ratio of 0.36%, of Bill Wilson on 25 December 2003.
He had been underlines the attractions of the index tracking an invaluable director of the company and we approach to investors.
Your board therefore strongly gained much from his knowledge of business and recommends all shareholders to vote in favour of the the investment trust sector.
We greatly miss his views resolution.
The directors are also seeking shareholder approval Guy Crawford was appointed to the board on to renew the authority to issue new shares for cash, 8 March 2004.
Mr Crawford is a chartered to meet investor demand, provided the subscription accountant and has been involved in the investment price is not below the net asset value per share.
Your management industry for over 30 years, until board also has the authority to purchase the recently as a senior investment manager at companys shares for cancellation were the shares to Caledonia Investments.
He will be standing for retrade persistently on a discount in excess of the election at the Annual General Meeting.
levels reached in recent years.
Special resolutions proposing an extension of these facilities will be put Annual General Meeting to shareholders in the Annual General Meeting.
The companys articles of association require shareholders to vote on the continuation of the The size of the economy and stock market, the company at every Annual General Meeting.
mobility of the nations labour force and the Accordingly, a resolution to this effect will be countrys entrepreneurial culture have enabled a proposed as Special Business at the Annual General large number of US companies to emerge as world Meeting to be held on Wednesday 12 May 2004.
If leaders in many industries.
Edinburgh US Tracker this resolution is not passed, a resolution to Trust provides shareholders with a broadly liquidate the company will be proposed later this diversified portfolio which covers the top 500 listed year.
Liquidation would result in a disposal of the companies in the United States.
companys shares for taxation purposes and therefore shareholders should consider carefully Sir Angus Grossart whether they wish the company to be wound up.
Chairman There will be another opportunity to consider the future of the company at the same time next year.
9 March 2004 PAGE 4 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
