02 Bovis Homes Group PLC Consequently, the absolute profit followed by 5.0 pence per share Tim Melville-Ross Chairmans statement achieved per home legally completed increases in 2007 and 2008. reduced.
Importantly, whilst This commitment, which remains, appropriately adapting its market as previously declared, subject to a position, the Group retained its ability stable business environment, will to generate strong trading profit double the full year dividend to 40.0 margins on the homes that it legally pence net per share from its 2004 completed in 2005.
The operating base of 20.0 pence.
margin remained strong at 24.0% The Board intends to offer a scrip During 2005, Bovis Homes has compared with 27.1% in 2004. dividend alternative, pursuant to demonstrated that it is able to In a year when there was significant which the shareholders may elect to produce healthy profits in a more investment in working capital, the receive the whole or part of their challenging housing market.
Group achieved a good return on dividend in new ordinary shares average capital employed of 20%.
credited as fully paid instead of The Group has been able to generate cash, for the 2005 final dividend.
Dividend a strong operating margin which The Board proposes a final dividend Market conditions underpins the high quality nature of for the year ended 31 December 2005 The 2005 calendar year represented the Groups profits and has maintained of 16.7 pence, to be paid on the most competitive and challenging low debt levels closing the year with 26 May 2006 to shareholders on the period the housing market has seen only 10% gearing.
The Group is well register at the close of business on for many years.
Activity in the positioned to expand in the current 2005 dividend per share 31 March 2006.
This dividend, when housing market depends, to a great competitive environment.
added to the interim dividend of 8.3 extent, on consumer confidence.
Results pence paid on 25 November 2005, Whilst affordability continued to be Profit on ordinary activities before tax totals 25.0 pence for the year and is good throughout 2005, consumers for the year ended 31 December 2005 25.0 covered 2.8 times by the basic earnings demonstrated caution in making was 116.1 million, compared with per share of 69.0 pence.
The total significant purchasing decisions.
This result was dividend per share for the year Housing represents one of the pence achieved from total revenue of 521.2 represents an increase of 25% over largest purchasing decisions an million compared with 559.5 million the total dividend for 2004 of individual makes.
Basic earnings per share was 20.0 pence.
confidence generated by job 69.0 pence per ordinary share security and greater stability of The Board remains content with compared to 86.8 pence per ordinary mortgage repayments, many its previous statement in respect share in 2004. consumers deferred their purchase of dividends.
It intends, conditional decisions during 2005.
In 2005, the Group focused on delivering on any necessary approvals required smaller, more affordable, properties at future general meetings, to which had the effect of reducing the increase the full year dividend for average sales price achieved.
2006 to 30.0 pence net per share 03 This was demonstrated through the During 2005, the rate of earnings constructed by the Group, towards The Group is committed to level of property transactions in growth was 3.8%, which was closer to smaller, more affordable, private implementing this evolving strategy England and Wales during 2005, the annual increase in house prices homes which appeal to a larger crossover a wider regional structure.
which was 11% lower than in 2004. than it has been for many years.
section of house purchaser, including Land investment in targeted According to the Halifax, house prices first time buyers.
These homes sell locations, often of a strategic The Bank of England Monetary in the United Kingdom increased by more easily in a challenging housing type, will provide the nucleus for Policy Committee has held the base 5.1% during 2005 whilst the Office of market.
Importantly, this has not new regions.
An increased number interest rate steady at 4.5% since it the Deputy Prime Minister reported involved the Group increasing of fully operational regions is reduced the rate by 25 basis points that house prices in the United significantly the number of intended to contribute to a growth in August 2005.
This base rate, Kingdom increased in 2005 by 2.2%.
apartments within its overall mix.
in volume of legal completions.
along with a consistently At these rates of house price growth, The number of social and partnership competitive mortgage market, has In a housing market where sales house owners ability to meet mortgage homes legally completed was also maintained good affordability.
price increases may be difficult to repayments has been maintained.
increased during 2005, based on preWhilst consumers will continue to achieve, the Groups strategy to agreed sales to housing associations.
Strategy observe base interest rates carefully accelerate the delivery of homes on Houses are released for sale at an The Group continues to adapt its and can be expected to react to site and grow the size of its business earlier stage of the build cycle to strategy as market conditions change.
future changes, the current through increased coverage of facilitate early reservations.
Design The Group has exploited its strategy affordable level of interest rate England and Wales is considered the and build phases of the process are of procuring a cost effective supply alongside improving confidence optimum way forward.
This strategy being accelerated through the use of of land through long term investment should assist a recovery in property does not involve significant dilution efficient house designs and enhanced followed by a design, construction transaction levels.
of financial returns and will allow labour supply to the sites.
and marketing process which has the Group to increase revenue, achieved a high level of return These changes will assist the Group to whilst retaining a strong margin.
from each home constructed and expand the volume of its legal legally completed.
This has been a completions going forward while still During 2005, successful strategy in a rising housing exploiting the benefit of a costmarket, generating strong sales prices effective land supply through long Bovis Homes has 2005 earnings per share and high trading profit margins.
The approach to demonstrated The Group recognises, however, that land investment remains unchanged.
its historical strategy elongated the The Group continues to aspire to that it is able to period of financial return from the replace all of the land used in any 69.0 point of investment, with a slower one financial period with land produce healthy sales rate necessary to achieve the procured through strategic means.
pence Groups higher levels of profit This will maintain a land asset with a profits in a more per home.
The Group has evolved its cost base below market value which product offering away from detached provides for strong trading profit challenging housing, historically the most margins on the homes constructed significant category of housing and sold on this land.
Dividend commitment 5.0 pence increase over each of the next three years 04 Bovis Homes Group PLC The Board Employees On this basis, the marketplace in The value generated from strategic which the Group operates should be Following the retirement from the Bovis Homes is a people business and I land sites gaining residential planning would like to thank all our employees capable of supporting increased Board on 9 September 2005 of consent can be considerable and this for their contribution during a numbers of property transactions, as Sir Nigel Mobbs, non-executive value, which is not reflected in the challenging year.
It is essential that well as sustaining house prices.
Chairman, I was honoured to be Groups net assets, will contribute the right individuals are recruited, To ensure the Group is well placed to appointed as Nigels successor.
strongly to profits in future years trained and motivated.
The objective is exploit this marketplace, the houses I undertook the role of acting as these strategic sites gain to ensure that the Group employs the offered for sale during 2006 will non-executive Chairman from residential planning consent and highest calibre of employees, who add include an increased number of small 9 September until the date of my development proceeds.
Our employees affordable private homes.
appointment as non-executive are encouraged to be sensitive to the In summary, the Group started 2006 Chairman on 14 November 2005.
The Group started 2006 with a strong demands and requirements of the with five years supply of good value The Board recognises the enormous land bank of 13,138 consented plots, Groups customers, whilst consented residential land and a contribution which Nigel made to with a low average plot carrying value demonstrating the entrepreneurial further eight years potential supply relative to the market value of these the development of the Group drive and flair to move the operation of strategic land.
Considerable shareholder value before and since its flotation forward without compromising sound homes currently being built on the has been generated from the Groups in 1997.
The Boards deepest corporate governance.
Groups sites is ideal for targeting a consistent policy of long term condolences were extended to Prospects wide cross-section of home buyers.
investment, both in respect of land Nigels family following his untimely After a year when house prices This should enable the Group to purchased with residential planning death on 21 October 2005. increased at a rate similar to earnings increase its volume of legal consent and land controlled without growth, affordability for house The Board is pleased to announce completions in the prevailing such consent.
The consented land purchasers remains good.
It is likely the appointment of a new competitive marketplace.
bank, which approximates to five years that house prices in 2006 will increase non-executive director, Mr John Profit margins are underpinned by of land supply when measured against modestly, at a rate likely to be lower Warren, who joined the Board on 2005s volume of legal completions, the high quality, low cost land than earnings growth.
Mr Warren is a represents a low cost, ready supply of controlled by the Group.
As land is affordability, assuming that interest asset on which to develop new homes qualified chartered accountant and utilised through the development of rates remain reasonably stable.
and with which the Group should be has considerable financial homes, replacement land will The fundamentals of the housing able to maintain a strong operating experience, having served as Group become available at a discount to market remain strong with demand in margin in the future.
Finance Director for WH Smith PLC market value from the Groups the areas in which the Group operates between 2000 and 2005, and Group strategic landholdings.
The Group The Group has a further eight years of exceeding supply.
The rate of new Finance Director for United Biscuits is well positioned to expand potential land supply within its homes construction in the United plc between 1991 and 2000. and to deliver further value for strategic land bank.
The Group is well Kingdom during 2005 was 7.5% lower He is also a non-executive director its shareholders.
on course to delivering its predicted than in 2004 based on private housing of Rank Group plc, Arla Foods UK 9,000 plots of consented land from registrations recorded by the National plc and Spectris plc.
The Board the strategic land bank between House Building Council.
It is generally now comprises four non- 2004 and 2006, having gained accepted that the development of residential planning consent on executive directors, including new housing is not keeping pace with Tim Melville-Ross the generation of new households and approximately 4,500 strategic plots myself as Chairman, and two Chairman that the housing shortage is worsening.
