Chairmans Statement I have pleasure in presenting the annual report of Performance over one year, five years and since launch to Fidelity European Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 on a total return basis 31 December 2005.
NAV Share price FTSE World Europe PERFORMANCE ex UK Index Continental European equities delivered another year One year 34.8% 46.0% 23.4% of strong returns during 2005.
Corporate earnings growth was healthy and a recovery in the level of Five years 80.2% 106.2% 4.2% takeover activity helped drive the market higher, Since launch 1991 1080.9% 1099.1% 341.6% despite continued concerns over energy prices and lacklustre economic growth in the eurozone.
During the review period, the net asset value NAV per Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns share of the Company returned 34.8%, strongly outperforming the benchmark FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which returned 23.4%.
The strong relative outperformance was primarily due to successful stock very strongly that total return income and capital is selection by the Manager, but also due to the the key performance indicator.
We reiterate that we portfolios gearing, which had a positive impact on the will not therefore restrict the Manager even if this leads total return of the NAV.
The shares ended the year to lower dividends in future.
trading at a premium of 2.1% to the underlying asset value per share.
A detailed review of the performance DIRECTORATE of the portfolio is provided in the Managers Review.
Mr David Simpson retires by rotation and, being Over the longer term, in the five years to 31 December eligible, has offered himself for re-election.
Mr 2005 the NAV has increased 80.2% compared with a Simpsons investment experience and Chairmanship of benchmark rise of 4.2%.
Since launch these figures are the Companys Audit Committee have been extremely 1080.9% and 341.6% respectively.
All figures are on a valuable.
Mr Simon Fraser is subject to annual retotal return basis.
election under the Listing Rules due to his employment relationship with the Manager.
This relationship with a GEARING senior member of the Companys Manager who The Board believes that gearing will continue to benefit assumes the responsibility of being a Director of the shareholders in the long term and during the year to Company is considered important.
All of the other 31 December 2005, gearing was increased twice.
On Directors are totally independent and this provides an 20 June 2005 the Company entered into a facility for appropriate balance.
40m at a fixed rate of 3.23% for a period of five years.
The loan was drawn down in full on 22 June 2005 and The Board has considered the proposal for the rewill be repayable on 22 June 2010.
On 21 November election of both of these Directors and recommends to 2005 the Company entered into a further facility for shareholders that they vote in favour of the proposals.
35m at a fixed rate of 3.54% for a period of three years.
The loan was drawn down in full on 22 November Due to my tenure on the Board exceeding nine years I 2005 and will be repayable on 24 November 2008.
In am subject to annual re-election and offer myself for both cases the facilities are with Lloyds TSB Bank plc such re-election.
My fellow Directors have again met in and are being invested in a manner consistent with the my absence for the purpose of considering my eligibility Companys investment objective.
They considered that my experience, my independence of mind and the manner in which I have The Companys level of net gearing is now 14.1% and filled the role of Chairman over the last four years has the Board will ensure that in normal circumstances net been beneficial to the Company and they confirmed gearing is below 20%.
The Board is responsible for the that they wish me to continue as Chairman.
They are level of gearing in the Company and continues to recommending that I be re-elected as a Director at the review it on a regular basis.
It is estimated that gearing forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
enhanced the NAV by four per cent over the year.
CONTINUATION VOTE DIVIDEND At the 2005 Annual General Meeting, shareholders Your Board has decided to recommend a final dividend voted in favour of the ordinary resolution that the of 2.5 pence per share for the year ending Company continue as an investment trust for a further 31 December 2005 2004: 1.75 pence.
The next continuation vote will take place at will be payable on 22 May 2006 to shareholders on the the Annual General Meeting in 2007. register at close of business on 24 March 2006 exdividend date 22 March 2006.
The Board believes Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005 Page 3 Chairmans Statement This trust has had two investment managers since it DIRECTORS REMUNERATION started in 1991, both of whom have performed Each year the Board reviews Directors fees in the light extraordinarily well.
Both have taken strong views on of increases in workload and the risks of being a nonstock selection and the Board has always encouraged executive director.
Fees paid by companies in its peer this approach.
The Board recognises that this group and elsewhere in the industry are considered.
investment style has given, and will continue to give, The Board has agreed that the Chairmans fee be significant deviation of performance from that of the increased to 24,000 2004: 22,000 with effect from Index.
I felt it important making this clear to investors, 1 January 2006.
All other fees for Directors will remain since we are all aware that investments can go down as well as up.
This total is within the 150,000 maximum aggregate payable as laid down in the Companys Articles of Association.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company is due to take place on 19 May 2006 at midday at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages 42 and 43 and I look forward to meeting you then.
Robert Walther Chairman MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT 6 March 2006 The management agreements between Fidelity and the Fidelity branded investment trusts have been subject to review recently.
In recognition of the tendency by the industry to decrease notice periods in such agreements, the Board has agreed to reduce the notice period in place from twelve months to six months.
I am keen to emphasise that this in no way reflects a change in relationship with or attitude towards the Manager.
OUTLOOK The outlook for the European economy is improving.
There have been signs that the regions high level of unemployment, which has held back consumer spending, could be decreasing.
The European Central Bank ECB has raised interest rates twice since December, the first rises in five years.
However, these rises are from low nominal levels and ECB policy remains accommodative.
Corporate profits growth has been revised upwards, which provides a positive backdrop for the equity market.
We continue to believe that stock selection based on in-depth company analysis will continue to be the key in outperforming the Index over the coming year.
Page 4 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005
