CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BPB DELIVERED RECORD RESULTS, WITH A BROADLY-BASED PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT ACROSS ALL THREE MAJOR REGIONS LIFTING GROUP UNDERLYING PRE-TAX PROFIT BY 29% TO 287.5 MILLION I am pleased, in this my first statement to you, to report substantial BPB strengthened its financial position a key component for further progress in a year that clearly demonstrates across a number the successful execution of managements capacity expansion of fronts the benefits of our sharpened strategic focus on improving strategy in growth markets with further strong cash generation performance by developing BPBs excellent growth platform in from operations funding capital expenditure of 154.1 million plasterboard and plasters.
2004 99.6 million, facilitating the purchase of minority interests in Asia 36.8 million, and reducing balance sheet net debt Having taken over the role of chairman last July I wish to express my by 73.0 million to 422.0 million.
Interest cover on underlying sincere gratitude to Allan Gormly, my distinguished predecessor, operating profit improved from 8.1 to 11.3 times.
for his sound leadership of the Board during seven eventful years.
We have developed a clear global growth strategy and IMPROVED SHAREHOLDER VALUE an experienced management team, led by Richard Cousins, Recognising the positive results for the year, and following last totally committed to the successful execution of that strategy.
Novembers interim dividend increase of 9.4% to 5.25p per share, I am therefore firmly convinced that with our strong industry the Board is recommending for shareholder approval a 13.8% position, sound resources and growth markets, we will continue increase in the final dividend to 10.75p per share, resulting in the to deliver for BPBs customers, employees and shareholders.
companys annual dividend increasing 12.3% to 16.0p 2004 5.2% increase and yet still enabling dividend cover to improve from STRONG PERFORMANCE IN 2004 05 2.1 to 2.4 times underlying earnings.
BPB delivered record results, with a broadly-based performance improvement across all three major regions lifting group underlying BPBs year-end share price improved by 40% to 496.5p and, with pre-tax profit before goodwill and exceptional items by 29% to a market capitalisation of 2.5 billion, the group entered the reserve 287.5 million.
At the year-end share price, the yield on the full-year dividend of 16.0p per share was 3.2%.
Reported profit before tax was 43.5% higher at 258.7 million, reflecting the improved underlying results and a 12.0 million Shareholders funds increased by 141.4 million to 936.3 million, reduction in the net exceptional charge to 12.5 million.
The latter with retained profit after tax benefiting from BPBs improvement included provision for exceptional closure costs of 34.0 million for in profitability: the return on average shareholders funds increased the Aberdeen paperboard mill 2004 closure costs of 28.8 million by 2.7 percentage points to 16.2%.
for the Purfleet mill which will mark BPBs strategic exit from the in-house manufacture of paperboard.
The Board will again seek to renew the companys share buy-back authority at this years AGM but, bearing in mind the significant Underlying earnings per share rose by 28% to 39.1p and the business development opportunities presented by BPBs mediumcompanys post-tax return on average capital invested increased term investment programme, the directors currently have no firm from 9.9% to 12.7%, substantially above BPBs weighted average plans to use that authority.
We have developed a clear global 287.5m growth strategy and an experienced underlying PBT, up management team from 222.8m last year 10 BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 DEAR SHAREHOLDER GOOD GOVERNANCE AND OUR PEOPLE We have paid close attention to ensuring that BPBs already high standards of corporate governance meet all the recommendations of the Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code in a shareholder value-adding manner, and where we take a different stance on an issue we state clearly why we have done so.
In the wider context of risk management, it was gratifying to note that the new FTSE ISS corporate governance index rated BPBs practices highly.
I look forward to the evolving debate with shareholders as to how we could be a better governed business to manage even more effectively and securely the assets entrusted to us.
I am delighted that David Hamill joined us last January as a nonexecutive director.
David, currently an executive director of ICI and chairman and chief executive of their substantial paints division, brings to BPB extensive industrial and international experience.
My confidence in BPBs future rests with the considerable management talent we have in place and which is being developed around the group.
I am consistently impressed as I visit our operations with the quality and enthusiasm of the teams I encounter a vital element in strengthening our global competitive advantage.
On your behalf I am pleased to thank all our people for their significant contribution to a rewarding year for BPB.
POSITIVE CURRENT YEAR OUTLOOK We are currently seeing a continuation of the positive momentum in sales demand and pricing levels achieved last year in our key markets, even though manufacturing capacity is constraining sales growth in some locations.
Given the groups well positioned lowcost businesses and our clear strategy for growth, the Board is confident that BPB will build on last years record profits and deliver good progress for the current year.
SIR IAN GIBSON CBE 18 May 2005 With our strong industry 16.0p 28% position, sound resources dividends per share, and growth markets, we will increase in underlying a 12.3% increase continue to deliver for BPBs EPS to 39.1p on last year customers, employees and shareholders BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 11
