Chairmans Statement on a bid value basis previously mid value and to take account of the dividends payable only in the period in which the Company is liable to pay them.
Our total assets are now 2.5 billion.
The share price was up 32.9% to 258.5 pence, and the share price total return with dividends reinvested was 35.6%.
These are good absolute returns, but we have also performed well on a relative basis, with the Company out-performing the now agreed composite benchmark of 40% FTSE All-Share 60% FTSE WI World ex UK indices by 3.2 percentage points, as well as the FTSE All-Share Index by 4.9 percentage points.
When measured against the weighted average of the Companys close peer group and of the AITC Global Growth Sector, there was a slight out-performance in share price total return and a marginal underperformance in net asset value total return.
Mark Loveday Chairman These are just one years performance figures for a savings vehicle with a long-term investment horizon.
The progress made and the changes introduced this year are a clear indication of our intent to bring about a sustainable improvement in longer-term performance.
We have changed the format of the Report and Performance attribution Accounts this year to introduce a detailed Business In analysing performance for 2005, the portfolio total Review, expanding on all aspects of our business and return of 24.7% was generated as to 24.5% by the pulling together information which in the past has been listed investments and as to 0.2% by Private Equity.
included in various separate reports and reviews.
In Asset allocation - in particular the Companys essence, we are trying to make it easier for our significantly overweight position in Emerging shareholders to understand what we are doing, why we are doing it, how we have done in the past and our FCITs net asset value total return vs strategy for the future.
We have also set out our Key composite benchmark and Retail Prices Index over 10 years Performance Indicators which we use to measure our performance, together with the potential risks to our 220 business and how we seek to mitigate them.
200 My Chairmans Statement concentrates on the matters that most concern shareholders.
180 160 Asset value and share price performance 140 Performance is what matters most to shareholders, 120 and I am pleased to report that your Company has Source: Fundamental Data had a good year.
100 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Net asset value per share with debt at market value 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 was up 25.2% to 285.7 pence.
The opening net Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust FCIT asset value at 31 December 2004 has been restated net asset value total return from 226.1 pence to 228.2 pence, as a result of Composite benchmark 40% FTSE All-Share 60% FTSE WI World ex UK changes in UK Accounting Standards.
These Retail Prices Index changes require the Company to reflect investments 2 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Markets Developed Asia and its big underweighting Revenue and dividends for 2005 of North America - was positive.
Gearing was also We enjoyed another year of very strong dividend positive, while stock selection was marginally growth not only from UK companies, but also as a negative.
In terms of regional performance, it is result of the trend of rising dividends from overseas encouraging that all our main markets produced companies.
Management fees increased as a result of positive returns this year.
Looking at our own regional the structural changes introduced during the year, but portfolios, the Europe ex UK and Emerging with other costs being kept under tight control, net Markets Developed Asia portfolios delivered outrevenue increased by 16.1%.
Earnings per share performance against their respective local indices, increased by 22.7% to 5.57 pence, enhanced by the while our UK portfolio marginally under-performed.
reduction in the number of shares in issue as a result of The North America portfolio again under-performed, buy-backs.
although the US Smaller Companies portfolio did The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.55 well, while our Japan portfolio produced the worst pence per share making a total of 4.75 pence per relative under-performance.
share for the year to 31 December 2005, an increase The Board is satisfied with the performance of the of 18.8% on last years annual dividend and an Private Equity investments to date and the way in increase of 13.1% on last years total dividend that which the funds are developing.
included a special payment of 0.2 pence.
This represents substantial progress in real terms and is the 35th consecutive year of dividend increases by Changes to the portfolio your Company.
The annual dividend has increased at In respect of changes to the portfolio during 2005, a compound annual growth rate of 8.7% over the last money was taken out of all the main markets to 10 years, which is well ahead of the average of the cover the costs of the share buy-backs 192.3 Companys close peer group and the AITC Global million and the Private Equity investments 17.6 Growth sector.
The Companys year end exposure increased As explained in the Business Review, presentational slightly in all markets other than North America, changes have been made to the Statement of Total where there was a small reduction.
Towards the end Return now called the Income Statement as a result of of 2005 and early in 2006, a further US$69.05 million accounting policy changes.
The income and was committed to Private Equity in a new secondary expenditure in the revenue column of the Income fund called Dover Street VI, managed by HarbourVest Statement for 2004 nevertheless remains unchanged Partners, which means that 189 million has now by these new policies.
been committed to this asset class.
FCITs dividends per share vs Global Growth Buy-back policy and discount Sector and Retail Prices Index over 10 years After careful consideration, your Board decided in 240 November 2005 that it was in the interests of shareholders to change the buy-back policy.
The new 220 policy has already contributed to a reduction in the 200 discount and has, as a new objective, a less volatile 180 discount with a ceiling, in normal market conditions, of 160 10% with debt at market value.
The original objective of enhancing net asset value per share for continuing 140 shareholders remains in place.
In 2005, we bought 120 back 9.4% of the share capital, increasing the net asset Source: Fundamental Data 100 value per share by 3.0 pence and narrowing the Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec discount from 14.8% to 9.5% with debt at market 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 value.
Your Board believes that this policy will provide Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust FCIT shareholders, and potential new investors, with greater Global Growth Sector confidence that there will be less divergence in future Retail Prices Index between the share price and net asset value per share.
Report and Accounts 2005 3 Chairmans Statement continued Dividend forecast for 2006 Manager re-appointment The Board has given our Manager, F&C, another The Board is forecasting an increase in the total thorough examination this year in respect of their annual dividend of not less than 10% for the year to investment process and performance, as well as all 31 December 2006.
This shows your Boards the other services provided.
Overall, investment intention to continue the trend of consistent real performance was much better in 2005 and all the dividend growth and, with our strong revenue secretarial, financial and other services continue to be reserve, there is plenty of cover and flexibility for a provided efficiently.
It is your Boards opinion that the progressive dividend policy.
continuing appointment of F&C as Manager on the terms now agreed is in the interests of shareholders Management changes as a whole.
During the last year your Board has made some important changes in the way that the portfolio is Gearing managed.
We have refined the structure whereby our Your Companys objective remains that of securing Manager, F&C, retains overall responsibility over the long-term growth in capital and income through a whole portfolio other than Private Equity, including policy of investing primarily in a diversified international asset allocation, gearing and risk management.
In the portfolio of equities with use of gearing.
Effective case of the regional portfolios, however, F&C now gearing valuing debt at market value started the year have the flexibility to delegate their management to at 10.0% and ended the year at 6.6%.
On the external third party managers when this seems likely recommendation of our Manager, following the to result in better performance.
As a result of these changes to the buy-back policy, your Board has now changes, the North America portfolio, other than the agreed that the gearing range should be increased US Smaller Companies portfolio, has been subfrom 0-15% to 0-20%.
This provides the Company contracted out to five external sub-managers based with sufficient flexibility to take advantage of in the United States, and the Japan portfolio has also investment opportunities and helps prevent it being been sub-contracted out to an external subplaced in the position of a forced seller in periods of manager.
F&C continues to manage the UK, Europe market weakness.
ex UK, Emerging Markets Developed Asia and US Smaller Companies portfolios, where performance has been satisfactory over time.
Marketing The Board has also renegotiated fee arrangements with Your Board recognises the ongoing need to F&C, so that our Manager now receives a lower, fixed encourage buyers of the Companys shares directly fee for its services, while being eligible for a in the market and through the F&C savings plans performance-related fee on the total portfolio in the promoted by our Manager.
In 2005, there were gross event of out-performance against the agreed purchases through the savings plans of 36.7 million benchmark plus a hurdle of 0.5%, excluding Private in the Companys shares and gross sales of 61.9 Equity and the effect of share buy-backs.
The first million, resulting in a net outflow of 25.2 million for period for the performance fee runs from 31 July 2005 the year.
Nevertheless, F&C has retained its dominant to 31 December 2006 - so far, 2.1 million has been position in the industry and the launch of the Child accrued.
The contract with our Manager is now on a Trust Fund looks promising, having successfully six month notice period.
Your Board will be conducting a full review of marketing to ensure that The intention behind these changes is to align the the Company is promoted in the most effective way, interests of the Manager with those of shareholders, with a view to both retaining its existing shareholders avoid conflicts of interest and provide a fair reward for and attracting new ones.
our Manager achieving superior performance across the whole portfolio.
4 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Corporate governance As always, we continue to take a vigilant approach to safeguarding your assets and to looking after your interests, with corporate governance and the management of risk and control matters being regularly reviewed by your Board.
Directors Two new Directors were appointed to the Board during the year.
The first was Ronald Gould, who has worked for over 30 years in investment management in the UK, USA and Japan and is now an adviser to the Financial Services Authority.
The second was Christopher Keljik, who has recently retired as Group Executive Director of Ronald Gould appointed to the Board in May 2005 Standard Chartered PLC.
Between them they bring a wealth of knowledge and experience to the Company, particularly in the areas of investment management, banking, finance, treasury, risk and international exposure.
There are four Directors up for election by shareholders at this years AGM, Ewen Macpherson and Max Ward for re-election and Ronald Gould and Christopher Keljik for election for the first time.
Following the annual Directors appraisal process carried out by me and on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board has approved all these Directors standing for election.
The future After three years of strong returns from equity Christopher Keljik appointed to the Board in September 2005 markets, it may be difficult to maintain the same rate of progress in 2006.
However, corporate balance Our overall aim is to create a virtuous circle of a sheets remain strong, the prospects for dividend continuing improvement in net asset value growth are good, the valuation of many companies is performance, a dividend growing in real terms, a not excessive by historic standards and liquidity in narrower and less volatile discount and low running global markets remains high.
The momentum from costs, in order to produce better returns for existing 2005 has so far continued into 2006 and, unless shareholders and to attract new investors.
there is a major unexpected shock somewhere in the world, most markets should show a positive return for the year.
Our priorities for 2006 are to continue to strive for even better investment performance, to develop further our Mark Loveday Private Equity strategy for the future and to focus more Chairman on the promotion of the Company to investors.
