ANNUAL REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ABOUT THE FRIENDS PROVIDENT GROUP UK LIFE & PENSIONS Chairmans Statement This is my first opportunity as Chairman to report formally on the progress of Friends Provident plc and I am delighted to do so at such an important time in the Groups development.
Important, because the moves we have made in the life and pensions and the asset management sectors, both in the UK and internationally, have rebalanced and reshaped the Group into a more broadly based operation, with excellent growth prospects.
This has been achieved against the backdrop of a generally more stable marketplace, characterised by the steady recovery in worldwide stockmarkets helping to restore consumer confidence, which is welcome.
Just as welcome is the prospect of greater stability in the regulatory environment too.
The full impact of depolarisation, introduced in late 2004, is still rippling through the UK marketplace, and the so-called Pensions A-Day has now arrived.
We will be beneficiaries of both.
The former presented the opportunity for us to forge many new distribution relationships, and the latter will help us build still further on our leading position in group pensions, our single biggest new business segment in the UK.
The well-publicised Turner Commission Report, although announcing widely predicted recommendations, has nevertheless played its part in ensuring that the importance of pensions will stay high on the political and social agenda.
We believe that the experience and expertise of our industry should be the bedrock on which to build pension provision for the future, and we will do all we can to collaborate with the Government so that it can achieve its aspirations, through a competitive, thriving pensions industry that delivers good pensions for the UK population.
Friends Providents overall 2005 performance has been strong, as evidenced by our results in general and the significant increase in our profits in particular, and I pay tribute to the whole Friends Provident team on behalf of all the Directors.
4 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 INTERNATIONAL LIFE & PENSIONS ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK For our shareholders, Total Shareholder Return over 2005, which takes The moves we have account of dividends as well as share price movements, was 28.4% made have rebalanced compared with 21.7% for the FTSE 350 Life Insurance sector and and reshaped the Group 20.8% for the FTSE 100 Index of leading shares.
Both 2004 and 2005 into a more broadly based saw a re-rating of the share price, with investors giving us credit for the operation, with excellent significant progress being made in our businesses.
We have been able growth prospects.
to increase your annual dividend every year since becoming a listed company in 2001 and it remains our intention to sustain this policy.
Your Board has recommended a final dividend of 5.1 pence per share which, if approved by shareholders, would bring the total dividend for 2005 to 7.7 pence per share, a 2% increase over 2004.
During 2005, my predecessor David Newbigging and Brian Sweetland both retired from the Board and due tribute to the valuable contribution made by these two long-standing directors was recorded in our 2004 Report & Accounts.
Howard Carter also retires from the Board after the Annual General Meeting in May and, to ensure a smooth handover of responsibilities, Alain Grisay joined the Board at the beginning of 2006.
We owe much to Howard for the skilful way he has driven the rapid growth and development of our asset management business over recent years.
He will be a hard act to follow but we know that Alain has the necessary qualities and experience to do it well.
I welcome him to a Board that has lost none of its appetite to grow your business aggressively and to the benefit of all our stakeholders, as evidenced throughout 2005.
I also congratulate Keith Satchell on his appointment to Chairman of the Association of British Insurers in July 2005, being further acknowledgment of Friends Providents progress, as well as due recognition of Keiths personal talents and reputation.
We have restructured this Annual Report & Accounts so that it now provides more information and in a more accessible way.
This is very much in line with our desire for transparency in all that we do.
I look forward to welcoming those of you who attend our forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 25 May 2006 and, in any event, may I encourage all shareholders to vote, either by post or online, on the resolutions being put forward at that meeting.
Sir Adrian Montague, Chairman Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 5
