309467 1-100 13 3 06 14:13 Page 2 Last years Annual Report had as its theme Chairmans the objective of making growth work harder for shareholders.
In 2005 we made choices Report that turned that ambition into reality.
Once again we recorded strong financial results.
Our choices in 2005 were about the right rate of volume growth in a changing economic environment, the right level of investment to make today in businesses that will be engines of growth tomorrow and the right action to take as the Group generates substantial surplus capital.
In this Annual Report we detail what that meant in each of our operating divisions.
In 2005 we stepped back from the short term battle for market share in consumer based lending and some corporate markets, leaving others to experience some or all of the consequences of overly ambitious volume growth: namely lower margins, higher costs and poorer returns to shareholders.
For us the correct judgment was to grow these lending businesses at a pace that took proper account of a less certain economic climate.
In our Insurance & Investment business, where we could be more confident of prospects, we chose to continue to take share away from our peers.
Internationally we invested for future growth: we made substantial progress in each of our International businesses, principally through organic means but additionally by small acquisitions funded from our own resources.
Despite growing our dividend in line with our earnings, we have found ourselves generating surplus capital.
It was right that we should return that capital to shareholders through a share buyback programme.
Talk by the way of further capital surpluses emerging as a result of the Basel II capital regime is in our view premature.
More sophisticated techniques for determining capital requirements in banking and insurance will ultimately enable us to make Dennis Stevenson Chairman HBOSplc Annual Report and 2 Accounts 2005 309467 1-100 17 3 06 4:30 pm Page 3 more informed choices about the risks we Now in 2006, HBOS is in the midst of share price outperformance.
More than take on behalf of shareholders.
Only in the management change as one successful anything else he will be remembered for longer term is that likely to be reflected in team hands over to the next generation.
the pivotal role he played in the creation judgments about the capital we need.
Following Mark Tuckers decision to of HBOS.
He goes with our thanks and rejoin the Prudential as Chief Executive, good wishes for the next stage of his career.
Prudence also lies behind the decision Phil Hodkinson, who joined HBOS on to accelerate the elimination of our 24 September 2001 as Chief Executive, Good succession planning is critical to occupational pension schemes deficit.
Insurance & Investment was appointed sustaining success in business.
We are Our pension scheme deficits are a liability Group Finance Director in March 2005. therefore delighted to have such an of our shareholders and we believe their outstanding successor as Chief Executive interests are best served by significantly George Mitchell retired on 31 December 2005 as Andy Hornby.
Andy joined Halifax on reducing the risks associated with meeting after almost 40 years with the Group.
George 1 November 1999 as Chief Executive, Halifax this particular liability.
joined Bank of Scotland in 1966 and was Retail and was appointed to the Board later appointed to the Board in 2000.
Following the merger of Bank of The demands of the regulatory agenda Chief Executive, Corporate, at merger in Scotland and Halifax in September 2001, are as strong as ever.
HBOS, and the UK September 2001 and Governor of Bank of he became Chief Executive of the Retail financial services sector generally, are Scotland in 2003.
Both as a powerful Division of HBOS plc.
Andy has six years subject to a range of pending and potential advocate for HBOS and as a superb business Board experience at Halifax and HBOS and reviews, at least some of which could have builder, George will be remembered with a tremendous track record as Chief far-reaching consequences for the prevailing affection for his many achievements.
Peter Executive, Retail in HBOS.
He is the obvious UK financial services business model, or the Cummings, with 32 years service in Bank of successor to lead the team in the challenges approach to product pricing and design.
Scotland and then HBOS, succeeds George that lie ahead.
The Board wishes him well.
As ever, we do not rail against regulation as Chief Executive, Corporate.
He has been at and will embrace change as required, the heart of Corporates many successes and In the sections that follow you will read so long as it benefits the customer.
we welcome him to the Board.
a very realistic appreciation of where the opportunities for value creation will lie in Following its introduction in March 2005, Later in January we welcomed Karen Jones 2006.
You will see that in some areas we the abolition of the Operating and Financial as a Director.
Karen brings to the Board an remain wary and in others ready to grasp Review OFR in November 2005 leaves us outstanding track record and tremendous opportunities with both hands.
Your Board with some uncertainty.
A European Directive experience from the Retail sector.
has the greatest confidence that the on business reviews will ensure that around management team have the ability to see 80% of the OFR requirements are preserved.
With Georges departure, Colin Matthew each for what they are and therefore look In common with other leading UK companies, became Treasurer of Bank of Scotland on forward to another year when selective HBOS remains committed to matching the 1 January 2006 and I was accorded the growth delivers robust financial performance best practice that eventually emerges.
honour of being asked by the Board to for HBOS.
become Governor of the Bank of Scotland.
Your Board was pleased to see markets As ever, we all know that we cannot recognise in 2005 the value of strategic In January we announced that our Chief achieve what we do without the huge choices that put shareholders interests Executive, James Crosby, is to leave HBOS enthusiasm and commitment of all our ahead of the excitement of acquisition-led at the end of July.
James has led first the colleagues around the Group, and growth or market share machismo.
For the Halifax and then HBOS through a period increasingly around the world.
Our thanks year as a whole the HBOS share price of unprecedented change with great success and hopes for continuing success in the increased by 17.1% to finish the year at bringing to bear a rare mixture of commercial future go to them.
9.93, comfortably outperforming the FTSE nous and humanity.
His time as Chief banks sector and in a difficult year for bank Executive has seen substantial growth at the Dennis Stevenson shares just beating the FTSE 100 index itself.
expense of our competitors and consistent Chairman Our choices in We cannot achieve 2005 were about what we do without the right rate of the huge enthusiasm volume growth and commitment of in a changing all our colleagues economic around the Group, environment and increasingly around the World Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 3
