Chairmans Statement the regulatory environment including the to ICAPs success.
These Awards are The Groups profit before tax, implementation of International Financial granted annually and recognise and reward goodwill amortisation and Reporting Standards, the requirement for an outstanding achievement by UK companies.
Operating and Financial Review in our ICAP won its award in the International exceptional items was Annual Report which we have introduced Trade category which recognises companies 178.9 million for the year this year and the recently published that have demonstrated substantial growth regulations to implement the EU Market in overseas earnings and commercial ended 31 March 2005 Abuse Directive in the UK which comes into success.
compared with 170.2 million force on 1 July2005.
ICAP aims to conduct its business in a Paul Zuckerman retired as a non-executive socially responsible manner and we have Shareholders funds at director during the year.
He was one of the chosen, for many years, to make a 31 March 2005 were original directors who joined the board of significant contribution to charities Garban plc when it was listed in November worldwide through our annual Charity Day.
The business was then mer ged with Once again this years Charity Day, held in 19.4 million.
Profit before tax Intercapital plc to form ICAP and has grown December, involved our customers and staff and developed significantly since then.
in our of fices around the world.
It turned on a statutory basis was I would like to thank him for his considerable out to be an exceptional day for the 131.7 million, an increase of contribution during this busy period.
charities that benefited from the proceeds of one days broking revenue, which we 1.2 million.
I am delighted that the board has agreed to increased to a remarkable 4.2 million.
This the appointment of Mark Yallop as Group brings the total raised by ICAP staff and Chief Operating Officer from 1 July 2005. customers, in the twelve years since Charity ICAP continues to be a highly cash generative business which has allowed us He brings to ICAP significant experience Day began, to in excess of 21million.
having been Group Chief Operating Officer to invest in the development of the business and has enabled the Group to of Deutsche Bank Group following many We have continued to strengthen our years involvement in trading in the business through selective recruitment maintain a progressive approach to the dividend paid to shareholders: the directors derivatives, foreign exchange and cash although competition for quality staff markets.
He will be appointed a director at remains high.
I would like to take the recommend a final dividend of 6.4p per share to be paid on 26 August 2005 to the board meeting following the Annual opportunity to thank all our staff for the General Meeting on 13 July 2005. tremendous ef fort that they have made shareholders on the register on 29 July 2005 making a total dividend of 8.25p per thisyear.
David Gelber will be retiring from his role as share for the year.
During the first half of the financial year we took the opportunity to Group Chief Operating Officer.
He has been a stalwart member of ICAPs senior purchase and cancel 7,920,000 ICAP plc Charles Gregson 10p ordinary shares at an average price of management team for many years and will become a non-executive director of ICAP plc Chair man 217p per ordinary share.
This was not part of a continuing programme.
for an initial period of one year from 13 July 2005 so that the board may continue to We respect the demands for high standards benefit from his knowledge and experience.
of corporate governance in the management of public companies and have complied with ICAP has won its first Queens Award for the provisions of the revised Combined Enterprise, which is an independent and Code for the year ended 31 March 2005. prestigious endorsement of the significant We are well prepared for further changes to contribution made by all our staff worldwide 02 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005
