02 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ADRIAN MONTAGUE, CBE, CHAIRMAN IMPROVEMENT THROUGH INVESTMENT IN GOOD SHAPE TO FACE THE FUTURE Over the year we have put considerable effort into improving our safety and environmental performance.
As a result, many of our key performance indicators in these areas show improvement.
Tragically, however, we have to report an accident at Eggborough power station in July of this year, where one of our contractors lost his life.
The inquiry we have instigated has yet to report, but we will ensure that any lessons learned from this sad accident are applied across all of our stations in order to ensure a safer working environment.
We are focused on securing life extensions for our nuclear power stations, if this can be done safely.
If achieved, life extensions will prolong our stations contribution to the UKs security and diversity of energy supply to the benefit of our shareholders.
This has been a year of both exceptional challenges and very There has been some discussion recently regarding the prospect of significant achievement for British Energy.
replacing the current fleet of nuclear power stations in the UK.
This could improve the diversity of the UKs energy supply and make an Following completion of our Restructuring, which has been important contribution to the reduction in CO emissions in order described as one of the most complex in UK history, shares in the 2 to meet the UKs commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
Whilst Groups new parent company, British Energy Group plc, commenced we welcome any UK energy policy debate, these are issues for the trading on the London Stock Exchange on 17 January 2005.
For our part, the focus is on improving the reliability and performance of our existing stations and we must Our financial results reflect the benefit of increasing prices for not let ourselves be distracted by these wider issues.
baseload electricity, offset by the effects of certain historic power contracts and lower than expected output, largely due to extended Over the year there have been a number of changes to the Board outages at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool.
and executive management in order to create a strong team to drive changes through the organisation.
Having spent two years as a NonOur Trading Development Programme has been completed, as have Executive Director, Bill Coley became Chief Executive in April 2005 the first two phases of our Performance Improvement Programme following Mike Alexanders resignation.
Bill brings with him a wealth PiP.
We have recruited a new management team and reorganised of experience from over 35 years in the US power industry, latterly the business to focus on the long-term performance of our power as the President of Duke Power.
I am confident Bill has the right stations.
skills to lead us through the next stage of our development.
PiP will remain our priority for the next few years as we implement the investment phase of the programme to improve our power station reliability and reinforce our profound commitment to the safe operation of our plant.
