BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 PAGE 1 Chairmans Statement Rupert Murdoch CHAIRMANS STATEMENT SKY CONTINUED TO DELIVER ON ITS TARGETS, BOTH FINANCIALLY AND OPERATIONALLY, IN THE 2005 FINANCIAL YEAR.
AS A RESULT, THE GROUP IS IN A STRONG POSITION IN A MARKETPLACE THAT IS SURE TO PROVIDE CONTINUED AND AMPLE OPPORTUNITY FOR GROWTH Skys direct to home DTH During the year, Sky has Following on from the success Finally, I would like to thank subscriber base grew to 7.8 continued to invest in quality of Sky, the next development all the staff at Sky for their million during the year, with programming, ensuring that the will be the introduction of high continued contribution.
It is continued strong demand for very best content is available to definition television HDTV.
through their continued hard the Companys industry-leading our subscribers.
Unrivalled HDTV will provide an enhanced work, dedication and enthusiasm entertainment service.
In the choice new entertainment, TV viewing experience for our that the Group will continue to Groups short history, questions popular movies, leading sports customers in the UK and Ireland deliver substantial value to have at times been asked about coverage and the finest 24-hour delivering increased choice, shareholders.
the potential maturity of the news service in Europe will flexibility and connectivity for business.
In the last year, we continue to drive this business future services.
2 August 2005 heard those questions asked forward.
However, in a dynamic and Financially, Sky is in robust competitive marketplace, it is the Sky is transforming the health.
During the 2005 financial work of the business to continue way in which our customers year, Sky generated on average to adapt and refresh itself for our consume television.
At the end over 1 billion of revenue each current customers, while opening of June 2005, almost 900,000 quarter and delivered the highest new horizons for future customers households had access to the level of profit in Skys history.
enhanced control and flexibility that Sky provides to the Combined, these core strategic Over the years Sky has television viewing experience.
elements: quality, in service and reintroduced itself, reinvented By increasing customer on screen: flexibility, for our itself and revitalised its appeal.
satisfaction and providing a customers and for the business: This past year of continued platform for new businesses, control, letting the customers renewal was no different our new products strategy is structure their familys and in the last 12 months we delivering incremental entertainment: and choice, accelerated the number of new profitability and new empowering the customer with an subscribers joining the service opportunities for growth by unrivalled breadth of our service, year-on-year for the first time first and foremost meeting set the pace for our viewers and since 2001. the needs of our customers.
for the marketplace as a whole.
