Chairmans Statement Introduction The dividend will be paid to 2 It gives me great pleasure to shareholders on the register on 8 report excellent results for our 6 May 2005.
Pre-tax profits increased The years dividend is covered 2.2 to 95.5m as a result of strong times by post tax earnings.
6 10 growth in both core income 4 3 and capital gains.
The loan portfolio 9 We had an excellent year for new We have had another record year lending.
We arranged or provided 5 for new lending, which resulted a record total of 778m of new 7 from the high demand for investments, up 19% on the mezzanine in Europe and our previous year, of which 409m 2004 participation in a number of large 354m was invested on our mezzanine financings.
Consequently balance sheet and 283m 2004 Portfolio by country the loan book increased by 8% to 202m taken by fund management 1 Denmark 26.4m 1.18bn despite a high-level of clients with the balance being 2 Finland 3.1m loan repayments and a more syndicated to third parties.
4 Germany 152.7m Most of the investments we made 5 Italy 11.2m 6 Netherlands 52.2m Last year we also saw a further during the year were in medium 7 Spain 27.5m advance in the scale of our fund sized transactions in the middle 8 Sweden 37.6m management activities with the market but, in addition, we 9 Switzerland 46.2m closing of a new 350m loan fund.
participated in four large mezzanine 10 UK 399.3m financings two of which were Results in the UK and two in France.
Core Income, the most important These two countries represented element of ICGs profits, increased by our largest markets for new 21% to 75.1m, primarily as a result investments, with 166m invested of increased net interest income and in the UK in 11 new loans and fund management fees.
147m invested in France in nine new loans.
We also made two Gross capital gains increased by investments in both Germany 140% to 62.9m, a new record.
and Sweden and one in each of Taking into account provisions and Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands payments under the management and Switzerland.
incentive scheme, profit before tax amounted to 95.5m, an increase Loan repayment levels were of 48% over the previous year.
particularly high last year with 23 mezzanine investments totalling Dividends 315m being repaid, which was The Board is recommending a final nearly double the level of repayments dividend of 28.2p net per share to experienced in the previous year.
be paid on 27 May 2005, which, In what was a good year for exits, with the interim dividend of 11.8p 215m was repaid as a result of net per share, brings the total for trade sales and IPOs.
In addition the year to 40.0p net per share, there was an unusually high level an increase of 16% over last of prepayments amounting to years dividend.
100m, arising principally because of the strong debt markets, which Our policy remains to provide doubleencouraged banks to offer digit dividend growth on the back of refinancing of mezzanine with continuing growth in core income.
2 Intermediate Capital Group PLC The overall performance of the leaving us currently with over to finance buyouts as a result of the portfolio continued to be 600m of unutilised facilities.
We very high levels of liquidity in the debt satisfactory.
However, we did see therefore have substantial spare markets.
Senior bank debt was being underperformance on three of our capacity enabling us to grow our offered aggressively across the market loans, against which we have taken loan book in the future.
and the high yield bond market significant provisions for the first became active again with a continued time, and further underperformance Fund management reduction in pricing.
In addition, on two of our loans where we had Last year we made a further advance mezzanine was again in demand with already taken some provisions.
in the development of our fund its use in European buyouts in 2004 management business with the reaching approximately 3.0bn As a result of the levels of new closing in November 2004 of a new compared with 2.3bn in 2003. lending, repayments and provisioning, 350m Loan Fund.
We now manage as well as the increase in the sterling six CDOs Loan Funds, and have The increased demand for value of the portfolio by 8m due to 2.2bn 1.5bn under management mezzanine was more than matched currency movements, our portfolio in this area.
All of these funds were by increased supply, not only from grew by 8% to 1.18 bn in the year.
in compliance with their covenants traditional sources such as banks at 31 January 2005.
Growing this and independent mezzanine funds, At 31 January 2005 our portfolio of sub-investment grade fund of which there were some new warrants and quoted shares was management business is, however, entrants in the market last year, but valued at 146m in excess of their becoming increasingly challenging also from new sources in the form nominal Balance Sheet cost compared despite a benign fund-raising of hedge funds and other structured with 82m in previous year.
environment, as competition for debt funds.
This led to increased attractive higher yielding assets is competition for mezzanine assets, At the year end our portfolio now very strong.
We have therefore particularly at the larger end of the comprised loans to 86 companies recently committed to fund the market, which often resulted in in 26 different industry sectors purchase of a 450m 310m increased leverage levels and thus across 10 different countries.
portfolio of leveraged loans from a more risk and in some cases bank exiting the London market reduced pricing.
Consequently, Funding which will be transferred to current while we have invested in a number At 31 January 2005 we had and future fund management of large mezzanine transactions, borrowings outstanding of 848m, clients, thus facilitating the raising we turned down more mezzanine which represented a conservative of further funds in the current year.
opportunities last year than we gearing ratio of 2.4:1. have done in previous years.
Our1.5bn 1.0bn 2003 During the course of the year we Mezzanine Fund has made good In the middle market, which is undertook a number of initiatives progress and is now over 45% where ICG does most of its business, on the funding side in order to take invested.
We are pleased with the the competitive pressures, although advantage of attractive borrowing quality of the portfolio in terms of increased, were not as acute and conditions.
We went back to the US credit worthiness and diversification.
consequently the adverse affect on and UK private placement market, leverage levels and pricing has not raising 140m, and undertook a We expect further growth in our been as great.
In this market ICG tap issue under the previous years fund management business in the continues to benefit from its large securitisation, raising 40m.
experienced pan-European team of addition, we have, since the year investment professionals and its local end, refinanced all of our existing The European mezzanine market presence in most of the principal revolving credit bank bank facilities 2004 was an active year for buyouts financial centres in Europe.
of 372m on more attractive terms in Western Europe, with recorded with a new five year revolving credit transactions totalling 53bn over the Another trend that we saw during facility of 845m.
period compared with 43bn in the year was an increase in 2003.
This was because of the large prepayment levels resulting from Following these fund raising cash resources in the hands of the the exceptional level of liquidity in initiatives we have in place total private equity investors and the ever the debt markets.
This liquidity has borrowing facilities of over 1.5bn, increasing amounts of debt available produced a higher level of risk 3 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Chairmans Statement Continued appetite from senior and growth since then, and I know his in our choice of investments in the subordinated debt lenders who are fellow Directors and executives will year ahead, seeking to maintain our prepared to refinance mezzanine miss him greatly.
We are all grateful credit discipline.
This has the for his willingness to remain on the effect of shortening the life of Board in a non-executive capacity.
We believe our market position mezzanine assets.
and reputation, size and local In May 2004 we were delighted to infrastructure will, in the current The Asia Pacific mezzanine market announce the appointment of year, enable us to continue to Because of the size and quality of Martin Kohlhaussen to the Board.
source and execute a good number the deal flow we have been seeing He is currently Chairman of the of sensibly priced and structured in recent months in the Asia Pacific Supervisory Board of Commerzbank mezzanine investments, particularly Region, together with the growing and a director of a number of in the middle market, where we are interest in the use of mezzanine, leading German companies.
However, taking we increasingly believe that there is experience will be a great help in into account the high expected real potential for ICG to develop a developing our European and level of repayments in the year good mezzanine business in the International businesses.
ahead, it will be a challenge to region in the years to come.
Outlook Of our first two investments in the Like all markets the debt markets So far this year, we have invested region one has been successfully are cyclical.
The benign global approximately 50m on our balance exited through an IPO and the economic conditions of recent sheet in four different companies and other was fully repaid with the years, together with increasing we have had repayments of 55m.
potential to generate a significant liquidity in the debt markets, has capital gain.
While we completed pushed these markets near to what As a result of last years loan book no new transactions in the Asia we consider to be a cyclical peak.
growth the prospects for net Pacific market last year, we expect Interest spreads across the whole interest income this year are good to be more active in the region in spectrum of the global debt market as are the prospects for fund the coming year.
have shrunk and lenders have management income, with further become prepared to take more risk good growth in funds under Offices, management and staff for the same or even lower return.
We have In recent months we have opened had a strong start to the year for a new office in Frankfurt, to add The high availability of debt in such capital gains, and expect this to to our offices in London, Paris, a market, together with the large continue for the rest of the year as Madrid, Stockholm and Hong amounts of cash in the hands of a result of where we now are in Kong.
The purpose of these offices private equity investors, should the market cycle.
In addition, the is to get closer to our key providers continue to sustain a strong buyout portfolio continues to perform of business in these countries and market in the year ahead.
further differentiate us from our competition.
This cyclical trend in the debt We are therefore pleased to be markets is also leading to an able to look to the year ahead The performance of our staff during increased supply of mezzanine with confidence.
this extremely busy year has been and other forms of subordinated exceptional.
I would once again like debt, in some cases from new less to take this opportunity to thank experienced investors, and thus to them all on your behalf.
This, in turn, is now often resulting in The Board increased leverage and reduced John Manser In January 2005 we announced pricing which we believe Chairman that Tom Bartlam will be retiring as sometimes gives the wrong balance Managing Director at the end of of risk and reward within the 15 April 2005 April, but will be remaining on the mezzanine and subordinated debt Board as a non-executive director.
markets, particularly in the larger Tom was a founder of ICG in 1989 transactions.
We will therefore and a key factor in its very profitable continue to be particularly selective 4 Intermediate Capital Group PLC
