Chairmans statement - Hugh Herman Results Sustainability 2005 was an excellent year for the group, providing an We believe that sustainability is essential for creating and opportunity to demonstrate the strength of our strategy and sustaining value for stakeholders.
As such, we are committed to the passionate efforts of our people to deliver strong results.
delivering on our financial targets, which we see as an We achieved the majority of our stated growth and financial important way of creating value for our shareholders.
return objectives and made significant progress towards Furthermore, doing the right thing for our clients, employees reaching others.
Favourable financial markets supported our and communities is integral to our way of doing business.
As performance, enabling us to grow earnings per share before we grow, we want to continue to find ways to ensure that this goodwill amortisation and exceptional items by 35.6% to approach is maintained.
Because of our commitment to this 140.8 pence, from 103.8 pence.
We also increased our objective, we appointed a senior executive to champion dividend cover from 1.79 to 2.10 times, with total dividends sustainability within the group.
per share for the year at 67.0 pence, up from 58.0 pence in 2004.
In further developments during the year, we made substantial progress in engaging with business divisions on the development of relevant sustainability measurement frameworks.
We also embarked on an extensive external Operational performance stakeholder consultation process to gain an understanding of their expectations regarding our sustainability strategies and All our business areas grew strongly.
Private Client Activities, reporting processes.
Details of these and other sustainability the largest contributor to group earnings, reported a achievements in the past year are included in our 2005 substantial increase in earnings.
The Private Banking operations Sustainability Report.
did exceptionally well and the Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking businesses benefited from buoyant equity market conditions.
A sound performance from the underlying portfolios of the Private Equity and Direct Integrity Investments divisions supported solid growth in the Investment Banking activities.
Treasury and Specialised Finance benefited Corporate governance remains a subject of intense interest, from the strategic refocus of its activities in prior years and with the volume and frequency of regulatory pressure Asset Management delivered strong growth, particularly the continuing during the year.
Basel II, Sarbanes-Oxley and UK and International operations.
International Financial Reporting Standards are all placing additional stress on our internal resources.
During the year, Ernst & Young LLP conducted a comprehensive review of our compliance with the 2003 revised London Combined Code.
Empowerment and transformation We considered the recommendations that were made and are implementing measures to incorporate these going forward.
The issue of empowerment and transformation remains high on the corporate agenda in South Africa, with the big four Our corporate culture emphasises the importance of ensuring retail banks announcing empowerment transactions during the that our behaviour corresponds to the highest standards of past year.
We have previously effected our own corporate ethics, and our values are reflected in our policies to empowerment transaction and are ready for implementation guarantee good corporate governance across all our of the Financial Sector Charter, with all our reporting systems operations.
During the year, CA Ratings reaffimed Investec in place.
Limited's extremely sound corporate governance rating.
Transformation has been a key focus for all our South African businesses and, as a group, we continue to be active in promoting black economic empowerment BEE within the financial services sector.
We have also made strong progress in terms of our employment equity programme recognising the need to transform our staff composition at all levels of the group.
During the year, we were recognised, once again, for our BEE initiatives when we won the BusinessMap Foundation award for the Top Commercial Financier of BEE Transactions.
05 Brand recognition Outlook An important element of our distinctive focus is the strength The group's performance in the past financial year of our brand.
While we are strongly established in South demonstrates the success of our clearly stated strategy.
We are Africa, we realise the importance of raising our profile in our confident that through further building on our strategic other principal markets, and we have therefore invested objectives, we can continue to provide a differentiated and actively in our brand over the past few years.
Internationally, valuable contribution to our clients and hence create we are starting to see the benefits of building a distinctive increasing value for shareholders.
brand, especially in the UK where the Investec zebra is becoming a very strong communication icon for Investec.
As we commence the 2006 financial year, we remain mindful However, we see brand building as going beyond just creating that in the short term, our performance is subject to the perceptions through advertising, communications and environment in which we operate and there are many sponsorships.
What is most important is focusing on unpredictable external influences that may affect performance.
interaction with our clients and other stakeholders in our dayNevertheless, we firmly believe that our niche focus, our ability to-day activities.
This is where the Investec values, to offer distinctive profitable solutions to our clients and the entrepreneurial spirit and desire to deliver value play the quality of our people will position us well to take advantage of deciding role.
market conditions and we look to the future with confidence.
People Our people remain key to the delivery of distinctive performance.
Hugh Herman As such, I would like to acknowledge the contributions of and Chairman extend my gratitude to the Chief Executive Officer and the Managing Director, who are invaluable to Investec because of their dedication, knowledge and experience.
Their special leadership qualities also enable us to benefit from the full potential of all the directors, integrating the rich and diverse skills and experience of our non-executives with the zest of management.
I should like to thank our entire board for their dedication and significant contribution they make to the group's affairs.
In March 2005, we appointed a new non-executive director, Cheryl Carolus to the board of directors.
Cheryl acted as the South African High Commissioner to London between 1998 and 2001 and was the Chief Executive Officer of South African Tourism.
She is currently Chairperson of South African National Parks and brings a wealth of experience to the board.
I would also like to thank all our employees for their commitment, hard work and enthusiasm, which have helped to produce results of which we can all be proud.
The quality of our people is a definitive aspect of our success and their ability to thrive within our entrepreneurial culture enables us to collectively deliver a great performance.
Lastly, we remain committed to engaging with our stakeholders - clients, shareholders and communities - and will continue to focus on delivering profitable solutions with integrity.
