Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Ken Carter Chairman 2 On 1st December 2005, we announced that Dominic Risk & Insurance Burke would become Chief Executive with immediate Turnover grew by 4% to 395.3 million.
Trading profit effect and that I would remain Chairman until the was 65.0 million compared to 87.7 million in 2004, companys AGM, on 27th April 2006, when Geoffrey producing a trading margin of 16% compared to 23% Howe, current Joint Deputy Chairman, would succeed for 2004. me as Chairman.
These results reflected the competitive insurance market As Executive Chairman for most of 2005, I will therefore conditions that prevailed throughout the year and report on the results for that period and Dominic will particularly in the second half of the year in several of address JLT going forward in his Chief Executives Report.
For the year ended 31st December 2005 JLT recorded The results were also adversely affected by a combination a profit before tax of 73.8 million compared to a restated of lower profits from JLT Risk Solutions, the adverse 85.0 million in 2004.
Profit before tax, exceptional items impact of currency transactions, the effect of which was and impairment charges of 76.8 million for the year to reduce profit before tax by 9.3 million, and reduced compared to 96.2 million for 2004, a reduction of earnings from PSAs, which were 6.4 million lower than 19.4 million.
Of this reduction, 80% was accounted for the previous year.
The PSA income of 4.9 million in 2005 by two factors: firstly, the impact of currency transactions, represented less than 1.5% of the Group's 2005 revenue.
the effect of which was to reduce profits before tax by SIACI, our French associate, had a good year increasing 9.3 million and secondly, earnings from Market or its contribution to Group profits by 10% to 2.5 million.
Placement Service Agreements PSAs reduced by 6.4 million.
Competitive insurance market conditions Following the commencement of the Spitzer enquiry in prevailed throughout 2005 and this further impacted the October 2004, we expected a period of turmoil in the results in our insurance broking businesses.
broking industry as clients, insurers and brokers grappled with its ramifications.
JLT foresaw opportunities to attract Fees and commissions Turnover increased by 3% to new colleagues to join our existing teams of professionals 484.4 million compared to 468.1 million in 2004, or 5% and to win new business.
As anticipated, JLT benefited at constant rates of exchange.
The Groups trading profit, from these developments.
In 2005, over 120 new defined as turnover less expenses and excluding colleagues joined or agreed to join JLT from its larger exceptional items and impairment charges, reduced by global competitors and we also won over 200 new 21% to 66.3 million against 84.0 million in 2004. accounts with annual income of 14.0 million from the This reflected a trading margin of 14%, although at opportunities presented post Spitzer.
The true value of this constant rates of exchange the trading profit would have expansion will become clearer as we move forward.
been 75.8 million and the trading margin 15%.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement 3 During 2005, we undertook a review of the support In JLT Services, our USA based employee benefits costs of our London businesses.
This review identified business, the trading margin fell from 15% in 2004 to opportunities for cost reduction and reaffirmed our belief 12%, reflecting an increasingly competitive operating that the underlying cost base of our business must be environment and sale of part of the affinity book of reduced.
This increased attention to costs is referred to business, as the company was repositioned in line in more detail in the report of the Chief Executive.
Employee Benefits Insurance Market Overview Turnover for the combined Employee Benefits group Our assessment of the market cycle in 2004 was that increased by 6% to 87.7 million against 82.9 million in 2005 would continue to be very competitive and this 2004.
Trading profit was 13.5 million, an increase of proved to be correct.
The hurricanes in August, 13% and reflecting a trading margin of 15%.
September and October had a significant impact on the cost of insurance in certain specific areas.
However, The UK Employee Benefits business achieved turnover based on our experience to date, the impact of the of 70.6 million in the year, an increase of 19% over the hurricanes has only been on those areas of business prior year.
Significantly, the trading margin of 16% directly at risk such as energy and property catastrophe exceeded our long-term goal of 15% for the first time.
We estimate that around 15% of JLTs Risk & During the year, Profund, the pensions software company Insurance revenue is affected by the hurricanes and the acquired in 2004, was successfully integrated into the consequent increase in rates.
At present, there still business.
The resultant expertise and resource has remains sufficient capacity: we believe much of the fresh proved of considerable value both in our own processes capital raised in Bermuda and London towards the end of and in our ability to provide a complete solution to our 2005 largely missed the opportunity to participate in the clients' servicing needs.
In our UK Employee Benefits business, competition Meanwhile, the vast majority of business remains remains intense.
During 2005, we both streamlined our unaffected by the impact of the hurricanes and most marketing and sales capabilities and combined previously markets therefore remain just as competitive as before the separate consulting teams.
This has been achieved in hurricane season with continuing downward pressure on order to provide a more integrated service to clients and pricing.
Absent unforeseen events, it is our opinion that highlights the importance placed on maintaining and this will remain the position for the foreseeable future.
As a result of the changes brought about by the Spitzer enquiry and market conditions generally, competition between brokers to retain and grow market share is very competitive, leading to intense pressure on fees.
JLT will continue to seek remuneration for its services on a scale that properly reflects its professional contribution and service to clients.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement 4 The FSA assumed regulatory responsibility for UK AGM in April 2006.
At that time I will retire from the Board insurance brokers in January 2005.
JLT plays an active and Geoffrey Howe, presently Joint Deputy Chairman, will role in market initiatives created to respond to FSA be appointed Chairman in my place.
demands and whilst the cost of regulation is increasing Mike Hammond resigned from the Board and the Group we believe that our clients and the industry will benefit on 1st December 2005 and Dominic Collins, Chairman of from them in the longer term.
For example, the FSA's JLT Risk Solutions, assumed executive responsibility for requirement for contract certainty will ensure that there that business from that date.
is complete and final agreement of all contract terms between the insured and the insurer prior to inception With effect from 13th December 2005, Dominic Burke of the insurance policy.
relinquished board responsibility for JLT's UK Corporate Risks business, which was assumed by Dominic Collins Dividends in addition to his existing responsibilities for JLT Risk Subject to shareholder approval, an unchanged final Solutions.
Board responsibility for Agnew Higgins dividend of 12.0p per share for the year to 31st Pickering & Company Limited and Lloyd & Partners December 2005 will be paid on 28th April 2006 to Limited passed from Dominic Collins to Dominic Burke as shareholders on the register at 31st March 2006.
Dominic Burke has also assumed board This brings the total dividend for the year to 20.5p per responsibility for JLT Reinsurance Brokers Limited JLT share, unchanged over the prior year.
Re, which commenced trading from 1st January 2006.
Group Board Group Strategy At the AGM in April 2005, Claude Chouraqui, John Lloyd Following the appointment of Dominic Burke as the and Richard Sermon retired from the Board and Group's new Chief Executive in December 2005, a review subsequently Tony Hobson retired on 31st July 2005. of our operations is being undertaken.
This review will Nick MacAndrew and Chris Keljik were appointed to the evaluate prospective developments in the broking industry Board on 1st July and 1st November 2005 respectively.
and enable us to clarify and refine our strategy to better Both are independent non-executive directors and serve equip the Group for the challenges the business faces on the Nominations, Audit and Compliance and today.
It is already underway and we anticipate that the Remuneration Committees.
Nick MacAndrew was output will clearly define the future direction of the Group, appointed Chairman of the Audit and Compliance provide us with a route map for the business and enable Committee on 1st August 2005 in succession to us to set appropriate financial objectives.
In the meantime, where we already believe there are clear On 1st December 2005, we announced the appointment benefits to taking immediate action, changes are already of Dominic Burke as Chief Executive with immediate effect being implemented provided that they have been properly and that I was standing down as Executive Chairman considered and validated.
An example of this is our from that date but would remain as Chairman until the intention to bring together our UK based insurance Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement 5 broking businesses with the merger of our largest single Prospects business, Risk Solutions, and our UK Corporate Risks Whilst benefits will flow from areas of expansion and business.
This will allow JLT to present a single brand to improved efficiencies, we anticipate that these will be its clients and insurance markets and introduce a more largely offset in 2006 by external factors such as highly fully integrated sales and marketing approach to UK and competitive insurance markets and continuing pressure overseas clients.
It will also provide an opportunity to on fees.
At this early stage in the year we do not improve the management structure and introduce further anticipate any more than a modest overall improvement operational efficiencies.
We recognise the importance of in the Group's trading performance for 2006 from that any refinement to the Groups strategy being reported for 2005 as a whole.
communicated clearly both internally and externally.
In his CEO statement Dominic identifies the need to improve profit margins in some businesses as part of a The Group includes many excellent business units, general review of the Group.
I am confident that in this, together representing a strong base for the planning Dominic and the senior management team will continue to process.
We expect the recent substantial investments develop JLT as a leading broker in its chosen fields we have made, primarily by recruiting teams and employing professionals intent on serving our clients.
individuals, to contribute to increased turnover in due course.
However, given that many of these are at an early Finally, as this will be my last report to shareholders, stage, they will take time to deliver a positive impact on I want to thank all my colleagues throughout JLT for their profits.
We intend to continue to develop our businesses support since I joined Lloyd Thompson in 1986, through by targeted investment in new staff during 2006, as the merger to create JLT in 1997 and particularly in the demonstrated by the recent establishment of JLT Re.
We regard the size of the Group as a real advantage.
Being considerably smaller than the largest insurance broking groups, we are not under pressure to be represented in all areas of insurance in all regions of the world.
Our intention is to concentrate our resources on our strengths - those areas in both insurance broking and employee benefits where JLT ranks among the market leaders or where we see the opportunity to secure a position of leadership.
We will focus on serving markets, Ken Carter be they industries, regions or client groupings, that offer Chairman significant growth opportunities.
The size of the Group 21st March 2006 provides us the scale to be a significant player in any of our targeted markets but also gives us the agility to react to market changes and new opportunities.
