Chairmans Statement Andrew Murison CHAIRMAN It is not easy to outperform a market that is has been 7.6%, the 1-year returns fall within the moving variously between its different wide range of range 47.6% to 32.4%.
The disparate movements in Company is definitively not a tracker, but makes European markets this year have made it more carefully selected choices to generate long-term difficult to out-perform in 2005 than in 2004, when out-performance, over 1-year periods the volatility the net asset value of your Company outof its total return is likely to be greater than the performed the FTSE World Europe ex UK index by markets.
But in the longer run your Companys 4.3 percentage points.
In the year to 31st March value-added will materialise as the relative 2005 your Company under-performed slightly, performance of the underlying assets becomes producing a net asset value total return of 17.4% dominant.
Over the last six threeand five-year compared with a rise of 18.2% in the benchmark periods ending this financial year the net asset index.
In share price terms, however, the total value has out-performed the market by an average return was 23.3%, beating the index by a of 2.4% and 2.1% each year, respectively, as shown satisfactory 5.1 percentage points.
The Investment in the table below.
Manager, Stephen Macklow Smith, explains the March March March March March March 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 dynamics of this performance in his report on %%%% % % page 7.
3 year NAV value added Both your Board and the Manager are focused on 1 annualised 2.8 2.3 4.2 1.1 2.3 1.9 delivering consistent out-performance and a rising 5 year NAV share price over rolling three year and longer value added 1 annualised 1.9 1.7 1.7 2.1 3.8 1.2 periods.
Although performance every single year is 1 NAV out-performance relative to benchmark.
important, it is not the focus of our activities since Source: Fundamental Data JPMAM.
share prices are highly volatile over such short periods.
Only in the long run will the share prices The Boards overriding concern, however, is not the of deserving companies predictably reflect their performance of the net asset value per se: growing economic value.
Investment is the process essential though that is, it is the performance of of identifying undervalued companies and holding the share price that matters most.
While the net them for the long-term: anything else is asset value is the most significant determinant of speculation.
While over the last fifteen years the the share price, the discount at which the shares average annual return from our benchmark index sell to that asset value is also highly significant.
I 2 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European am pleased that the discount on your shares has net asset value.
But so long as the shares from narrowed from 17% a year ago to 10% at the time treasury are sold at a narrower discount than when of writing.
This is at least partly because your they were bought in, existing shareholders will Company has pursued its share buy-back policy benefit from the addition to their net assets per more vigorously relative to overall market demand share on the round trip.
Furthermore, these this year, and is continuing to do so.
Under the treasury transactions may increase liquidity and authority given to the Board last July the Company thus, in turn, tend to narrow the discount further.
had bought-in 1.2 million shares by the 31 March Your Board believes that the more consistently and year-end.
In the two months since then the closely the share price tracks net asset value per Company has bought-in a further 1.2m shares.
So when its review of the net Over the ten months since last July the Company benefits of issuing treasury shares is complete, the has therefore bought-in double the number of Board may decide to put the matter to shares that it bought-in during the whole of the shareholders for their vote.
These have increased I mentioned in my statement last year that your shareholders net asset value by 5p per share.
Board was debating whether to introduce an Given the Companys superior long-term absolute share price gain into its objective.
Since performance, we expect the discount to narrow the objective already refers to achieving a rising further and, when European markets become more share price over rolling three-year and longer attractive to investors, to settle in single figures, periods, the debate centred on whether to make where it consistently was prior to the bear market absolute returns the performance benchmark, so that began in 2000. that absolute gains in net asset value would be the The new ability of investment trusts following goal even when the index falls.
The Board decided their shareholders consent to buy-in shares and, firmly against this on the grounds that the instead of cancelling them, to hold them in Company is specifically designed to meet the needs treasury for re-issue at a later date, may be an of shareholders who have decided to allocate additional way for the Board to achieve its aim of assets to European equities.
With that specialist limiting discount volatility and improving share goal, the Company is not designed to be an assetliquidity.
Your Board is aware that some allocator, making choices between different asset institutional shareholders think it wrong for classes - the distinctive value-adding function of an treasury shares ever to be issued at a discount to absolute returns fund.
Your Board confirmed its JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 3 Chairmans Statement continued requirement for the Manager to remain no less than confirmed that the FTSE World Europe ex UK 90% invested in European equities at all times i. e Index was the appropriate benchmark, but that it allows a maximum cash position of 10%.
It this should not imply that the Companys remains confident that well-selected European investment universe is confined to companies that equities bought at average market prices over the are in that index.
Companies do not have to be cycle should normally deliver positive returns over included in the portfolio just because they are in periods of three years and longer.
The Board confirmed that the markets, although inhibited by low growth at the Investment Managers selection criteria of the the macro-economic level, are continuing to produce best of value and the best of growth continued to rising profits and profitability at the corporate level, promise the best mix of long-term out-performance where it matters to our shareholders.
We expect at sensible levels of risk.
It also confirmed the this to continue irrespective of the inevitable Investment Managers discretion to invest in changes that will occur within the European smaller companies or new Europe entirely as he Community at the political level.
It confirmed, too, that, while significantly greater short-term volatility than is evidenced in The quantity and cost of gearing is another the market generally was on the whole to be important lever that the Board keeps to hand in avoided, consistent long-term upside volatility was pursuit of enhanced performance.
Tactical the core of the mandate!
How to assure the latter decisions on its deployment are delegated to the while avoiding the former?!
The agreed strategy investment manager, but the quantum and policy was the most certain path.
The Board re-confirmed is the responsibility of your Board which has the limits on individual company holdings that confirmed the borrowing limit of 20% of total allow significant divergence from the index and assets.
It has also sought to minimise the noted with approval that, while the Company has a borrowing costs of the Companys 35m loan by lower tracking error than the average of its peer re-financing it during the year at an interest saving group, its risk-adjusted long term growth in asset of approximately 85,000 per annum.
values was significantly above average.
It reThe Board has spent many hours over the year emphasised the Companys position as the core reviewing the Companys attitude to risk and, holding for investors in Europe seeking consistent concomitantly, a desirable but realistic target for out-performance of the market at a controlled level out-performance.
Given the mandate of being at of risk.
least 90% invested at all times, the Board 4 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European The recommended dividend of 2.60p this year will, year, and evaluating its own performance also.
As as usual, consist of nearly all of the net earnings regards the Managers performance, it was available for distribution, after expenses.
These evaluated by reference to three main criteria: available earnings are likely to rise significantly in implementation of the Boards investment policy future years.
Since the year-end your Board has relative both to the benchmark and to peer group decided that the proportion of the Companys trusts: the reasonableness of the fee and other expenses that are attributed to capital and income, management costs: and the quality of the respectively, should in future reflect the relative Managers secretarial and administrative contributions that those two sources are expected procedures.
On performance, the Board noted that to make to total return.
This is in line with this years small performance deficit would, accounting standards and the practice of the great inevitably, need to be offset if the positive three majority of investment trusts.
At present 100% of and five year record was not to be diluted the Companys annual costs other than marginally, but saw no reasons to anticipate a performance fees are expensed against revenues.
decline in the consistent long-term record of outSince the expectation is that the relative performance.
On fees and costs, it was noted that contribution to total returns will fall approximately the Companys total expense ratio was well below in the proportions 70:30 70% from capital gains its peer group average as it was in 2004 despite and 30% from income 70% of the costs previously the higher management fee resulting from outexpensed against revenues will be capitalised in performance.
The Managers secretarial and future years.
As a result the income available for administrative grasp was given high marks.
After payment as dividends will rise commensurately.
due consideration, the Board had no hesitation in The Board is investigating ways for shareholders to re-appointing JPMorgan Asset Management as reinvest their larger dividends automatically in your Companys Manager for another year but if order for them to benefit from the powerful standards slip I shall let you know.
compounding effect on long-term returns and As for the Boards evaluation of itself, it emerged consistently with how we report our results to from the process reasonably unscathed to which you.
We will let you know the outcome of these surprising news you might respond: it would, investigations in due course.
wouldnt it, but concluded that its combined Your Board has of course spent considerable time skills would benefit from strengthening in three evaluating the Managers performance over the areas.
They are described in relation to the JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 5 Chairmans Statement continued appointment of Stephen Russell to the Board, currently the Director of Research at Ruffer below.
The Board lost two valued members over Investment Management, a fund management the year.
William Berry retired after 23 years of group specialising in absolute returns for high net outstanding service, having joined the Board in worth individuals.
I will be enthusiastically 1982 since when the net asset value total return recommending shareholders to confirm his has been 1312%, double that of the market!.
We election at the AGM on 21st July.
shall miss his wise counsel and the long By then, the impact of the referenda on the experience of investment trust companies acquired European constitution may be in clearer focus.
At from his vantage-point in Edinburgh.
We also lost the time of writing, it appears that, in the shortthe services of Gal fide Pontbriand, who regretfully run, greater instability of the euro is the outcome resigned in December because of the pressures of that will most effect the sterling value of our other commitments.
His knowledge of French investments.
In the longer-run, we confidently commerce and developments in Europe, along with expect that the forces of global competition will gallic rigour, were a greatly-valued benefit.
We are predominate over those misguided protective sorry to see them go and wish them well for the instincts and welfare-centric economic policies in future.
Europe, so that competitive continental companies In the light of these departures, and of the skills will continue to outperform.
and experience of your four remaining Directors, I therefore end this report by re-stating with the Board in its evaluation determined that an confidence that the Company will continue to additional UK-based director with relevant produce consistent long-term returns to European experience and current responsibilities shareholders.
in private client fund management would be of advantage.
It therefore initiated an external third Andrew Murison party search for a new Director with those Chairman 9th June 2005 qualifications.
An outstanding field was produced from which Stephen Russell was appointed on 1st June.
Having previously been head of panEuropean investment strategy at HSBC, and before that a fund manager, head of equities and board member at SLC Asset Management, Stephen is 6 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European
