Chairmans Statement Jeremy Paulson-Ellis CHAIRMAN Investment Performance Investment Manager I am pleased to be able to report that the Japanese The Companys objective is to provide markets have had a much improved year and that shareholders with capital growth from a portfolio your Companys results largely reflect that of investments in Japanese companies.
In fact the Japanese markets posted has thoroughly reviewed the capabilities of their best returns since 1999.
Over the year to 30th JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited and has September 2005 your Company produced a total concluded that its ongoing appointment is in the return on net assets of 28.3%, marginally best interests of shareholders.
underperforming the total return of our Management Fees benchmark, the TOPIX Index, of 28.9%.
The return As part of the ongoing process designed to ensure to shareholders was somewhat better at 39.5% as that it meets best practice, the Board has reviewed the discount narrowed from 10.9% to 3.1%.
the terms of the management agreement and has Board of Directors decided that with effect from 1st July 2005 the During the year, the Board has carried out an management fee should be based on net assets evaluation of the Directors, the Chairman, the rather than gross assets.
A table detailing the Board itself and its Committees.
In accordance change in fee levels can be found on page 18 in the with the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors Report.
Directors retiring by rotation at this years Annual This change has resulted in a reduction in fees of General Meeting are Blaise Hardman and myself.
19,000 for the year ended 30th September 2005.
Whilst both Blaise and myself have now served for If it had been in place for the entire year, it would nine years, the Board does not believe that length have resulted in a reduction of 137,000.
The of service in itself should disqualify a Director from Board believe that the revised arrangements will seeking re-election and, in proposing our renot result in a material change in fee payments elections, it has taken into account the ongoing over the investment cycle but that it will better requirements of the Combined Code, including the reward the Manager for good management of the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 1 Chairmans Statement continued Authority to Repurchase the Companys Shares Prospects At last years AGM, shareholders granted the There are signs that the prolonged stagnation of Directors authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Japanese economy and the consequent poor the companys shares for cancellation.
Whilst the returns derived from its stockmarkets may be Company did not repurchase any shares for coming to an end.
Certainly, international investor cancellation during the year, the Directors believe perceptions of Japan have improved dramatically, that circumstances could arise when the resulting in substantial inflows of funds.
Our mechanism would be of benefit to shareholders.
It Managers are confident that they have identified a is therefore proposed that the authority be significant number of attractive investment renewed for a further period.
opportunities, predominantly amongst domestic service oriented companies with the ability to grow Annual General Meeting their earnings consistently over a number of years.
This years Annual General Meeting will be held on Whilst Japan is still sensitive to continued global 16th December 2005 at 2.00 pm at JPMorgans growth, the opportunities it offers domestically are offices at 60 Victoria Embankment, London improving.
As in previous years, in addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a Jeremy Paulson-Ellis presentation from the Investment Managers who Chairman 10th November 2005 will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
There will also be an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of JPMorgan after the meeting.
I look forward to welcoming as many of you as possible to this meeting.
If you have any detailed or technical questions, it would be helpful if you could raise these in advance of the meeting with the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
