Chairmans Statement George Paul CHAIRMAN Performance repurchase the Companys shares where it believes I am very pleased to report another good that a sustainable enhancement to shareholder performance for the year under review with a value can be achieved by this means.
positive return on net assets of 11.9% which Earnings and Dividends compares favourably with the rise in the Earnings per share rose to 8.27p as a result of Companys benchmark, the MSCI World Index in higher levels of dividend income and a reduced sterling terms of 11.3%.
The Companys share cost of borrowings which more than covered a price, however, rose by 20.6%, thereby small increase in the tax charge.
The Board is significantly narrowing the discount to net asset proposing, subject to shareholders approval at the value NAV to 12% at the year end down from Annual General Meeting, to pay a final dividend of 18% in June 2004.
This is an increase of 14% over last years stock selection were the primary contributors to dividend of 7.0p and is the third consecutive this outperformance, together with share annual rise.
It should nevertheless be noted that repurchases, and overcame the negative effects of the principal aim of the Company is to maximise currency, gearing, management expenses and the shareholder returns through capital growth and performance fee.
Despite largely positive returns fulfilling this aim can lead to fluctuating levels of from major stockmarkets, our favouring of quality dividend income.
This dividend is to be paid on 1st stocks was not well rewarded as lower quality December 2005 to shareholders on the register at stocks tended to outperform.
Our holdings in close of business on 28th October 2005. emerging markets and Europe proved beneficial to Directors performance and helped to counter poorer returns There were no changes to the composition of the in the US and Japan.
The Board fully supports the The Board continues to watch the level of share recommendations of the 2003 Financial Reporting price relative to the NAV and remains prepared to JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 1 Chairmans Statement continued Council Combined Code and of the AITC Code of continue to strive to provide even better returns for Corporate Governance.
We have carried out an shareholders.
We have reviewed the performance annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the of the Investment Manager and the Manager of the Board, the Directors and my own position as Trust, and discussed our findings with them.
In accordance with the Companys have concluded that the ongoing appointment of Articles of Association, the Directors retiring by the Manager is in the best interests of rotation at this years Annual General Meeting are shareholders.
John Rennocks and Simon Davies.
Both have a Annual General Meeting wealth of experience in the investment trust My fellow Directors and I invite you to attend the industry and demonstrate effectiveness and Companys Annual General Meeting which will be commitment to the role.
I have no hesitation in held at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, recommending their re-election.
London EC2R 5BJ on Wednesday 30th November We held meetings of the Nomination Committee 2005 at 12 noon.
The Investment Manager, Ed and the Remuneration Committee as well as Walker, will review the past year and comment on interim and final meetings of the Audit and the outlook for the current year.
If you have any Management Engagement Committee.
Richard detailed or technical questions, you may wish to Barfield is the Senior Independent Director and raise these in advance with the Secretary whose John Rennocks chairs the Audit and Management contact details are shown on page 46.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM in person are strongly encouraged to use their proxy Investment Manager votes.
We have worked closely with Ed Walker to develop the investment strategy for the Trust.
This has led The AGM will be followed by refreshments and to a reduction in the number of stocks held to there will be an opportunity for shareholders to around 80, which makes for more active portfolio meet the Directors and the Investment Manager.
We are encouraged by the fact that both asset allocation and stock selection helped George Paul the Trust to outperform its benchmark.
We are in Chairman 26th September 2005 no way complacent about performance and 2 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas
