Chairmans Statement Hamish Leslie Melville CHAIRMAN the Companys revenue reserves have been utilised Performance in this respect.
In another positive period for small and mid sized stocks in the UK, I am pleased to report a year of Britannic Smaller Companies outperformance for the Company.
The Companys On 11th February 2005, the Company announced total return with net income reinvested was with Britannic Smaller Companies Trust plc the 21.8%, which compares with a return of 20.4% terms of the first investment trust reconstruction to on the same basis from the Companys benchmark use treasury shares.
Britannic Smaller chose the index, the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 Company as the sole rollover option in its scheme constituents and investment trusts.
At the interim of liquidation.
stage, the Company had underperformed its Following the announcement, the Company bought benchmark, largely as a result of depressed in the market three million shares at a discount to investor sentiment towards technology stocks.
net asset value of 11.4% and placed them in However, the Company benefited from being treasury.
The repurchase had been underwritten geared in the rising stockmarket during the second the night before, but all shareholders were invited, half of 2004 and cash gearing was the main via an announcement to the market, to compete contributor to the outperformance.
The total return with the underwriters by tendering shares on a to shareholders was 18.5%, which reflected the discount basis.
increase during the year of the share price discount to net asset value from 11.9% to 14.6%.
The scheme becomes effective on 15th April 2005, and it is expected that the Company will issue It is very pleasing to report that excluding gearing, approximately 2.6 million new shares at a discount the investment managers have now outperformed of 8.4%, simultaneously cancelling the three their benchmark index for five consecutive years.
The discount differential The Investment Managers, in their Report on pages will secure the Company a small accretion in net 3 to 7, set out in more detail a review of the asset value and the transaction replaces underlying portfolio and our outlook for the future.
shareholders seeking an exit with new shareholders seeking a longer term investment.
It Earnings and Dividends is expected that this will benefit the discount at Earnings per share increased by 1.1% for the year, which the Companys shares trade.
Board of Directors The Company has paid three interim dividends of Mr Paddy Linaker will retire as a Director at the 4.25p per ordinary share, and the Directors have conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting declared a fourth quarterly dividend of 7.00p.
This and will not be seeking re-election.
He has had a gives a total dividend of 19.75p, and represents an distinguished career and has been a Director of the increase of approximately 5.3%.
As indicated in Company since 1994.
On behalf of the Board, I last years annual statement, in order to maintain would like to thank him for his wise counsel and the progressive dividend payments, 2,007,000 of wish him well for the future.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 1 Chairmans Statement continued The other Directors retiring by rotation are Lord was satisfied with the results of the review and Rothermere and Mr Simon Keswick.
The therefore in the opinion of the Directors, the Nomination Committee of the Board, consisting of continuing appointment of JPMFAM for the those Directors who are not up for re-election by provision of these services is in the interests of rotation has met to consider the attributes of each shareholders as a whole.
individual and, following this review, recommends Following Katy Woodhouses decision in December to shareholders that the Directors should be re- 2004 to take up a position within the Global Multi elected.
Asset Group at JPMorgan Fleming in New York, Mr Keswick has been a Director for more than ten Martin Hudson has been assisted in the years and although the Board believes that he is management of the portfolio by James Soutter.
The fully independent, Mr Keswick has agreed to stand Board would like to thank Katy for her valuable for re-election as a Director on an annual basis in contribution to the Company, and welcomes James the future in order to comply with industry best to the management team.
Annual General Meeting Share Repurchases The Companys one hundred and nineteenth Annual At last years Annual General Meeting shareholders General Meeting will be held on Thursday 19th May gave the Directors authority to repurchase the 2005 at 9.30 a. m. at Trinity House, Tower Hill, Companys shares for cancellation.
In addition to the formal part of repurchases have taken place during the last year, the meeting, there will be a presentation from the the Board is proposing that the authority be renewed Investment Managers who will answer questions on at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, as it the portfolio and performance.
There will also be an remains an effective mechanism by which to reduce opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment discount volatility of the Companys shares.
Managers and representatives of JPMorgan Subsequent to the year end, three million shares Fleming.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as have been repurchased into treasury as part of the possible at this meeting.
Britannic Smaller Companies transaction described Outlook above.
The Board believes that small and mid cap JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management companies remain good value.
With continued The Board has reviewed the investment strength from the UK economy and the Investment management, secretarial and marketing services Managers strategy of active stock selection within provided to the Company by J. P. Morgan Fleming a diversified portfolio, we are confident that the Asset Management UK Limited JPMFAM.
This Company will continue to prosper.
annual review has included their performance record, management processes, investment style, Hamish Leslie Melville resources and risk control mechanisms.
The Board Chairman 12th April 2005 2 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile
