Chairmans statement This is the fourth year in succession of more than doubled profits, defining Burren as a top performer in the oil and gas sector This is the fourth year in succession of more than 400 million barrels, all located in established doubled profits, positioning the Group as a top hydrocarbon provinces.
performer in the oil and gas sector.
Among the During the year we made good progress in factors behind this success is our emphasis on acquiring a portfolio of assets in the Middle East, cost control, where over a three year period we in line with Burrens strategy of growth into new have brought down our production cost per frontier areas.
In Egypt, a production sharing barrel, on a working interest basis, by some 27% contract for the shallow water North Hurghada to US$2.27 per barrel in 2005.
At these levels block in the Gulf of Suez was signed in August we are among the lowest cost operators in 2005.
Burren was also awarded the onshore the industry.
North Lagia block, north of the Gulf of Suez, Driven by our development drilling success our subject to government ratification which is proven reserves have grown in 2005 by 14% to expected in the first half of 2006.
We acquired 84.6 million barrels on a working interest basis, significant new licence interests in Yemen and Brian Lavers CBE which, excluding production disposals for the year, Oman, subject to government ratification.
Block 6 Chairman represents growth of 34%.
Our working interest in Yemen consists of 3,911 km of onshore proven & probable reserves, however, reduced by located in the prolific Shabwa Basin between 13% to 214.2 million barrels, although excluding commercially productive oil fields to the west and production disposals the reduction is only 7%.
Burrens working interest will be 92%.
Block The reduction was primarily due to a downward 50 in Oman consists of 16,680 km offshore in I am pleased to report another outstanding year revision to our assumptions as to probable oil in water depths of up to 100 metres.
Burren has for Burren both in terms of the performance of place in the MBoundi field in Congo following the acquired a 40% non-operated interest in this high its existing assets and expansion into new and results of the MBD1204 and 1401 wells, which reward, high risk block, which is operated by potentially profitable theatres of operation.
together have helped to redefine the northern Oman Hunt.
In light of the excellent results the Board is boundary of the field.
It also reflects the impact recommending a final dividend of 9.5 pence of the conditional sale of a 3.5% interest in the In India, the market value of our 26% equity share per share, making a total dividend in respect MBoundi field to the Congolese national oil of HOEC has nearly doubled since its acquisition of 2005 of 12.0 pence per share, a fourfold company SNPC.
However if the 60,000 bwpd in February 2005.
Negotiations are under way increase in the dividend relating to 2004 MBoundi water injection programme, which is with a local electricity generator on a gas sales 3.0 pence per share.
due to start in the fourth quarter of the year, is contract so that development of the PY-1 gas field successful this could have a material beneficial can begin.
Burrens earnings per share tripled to 159.0 cents impact on the reserves in the field.
2004: 50.1 cents, representing net profit of In January 2005, 22 million shares held by US$220.9 million 2004: US$68.4 million.
Pretax The Groups proven & probable reserves pre-flotation shareholders, representing 16.0% profit rose by 196% to US$254.6 million 2004: represent an 18 year reserve life based on 2005 of the Company, were placed by the Company US$86.2 million and net operating cash flow working interest production, and seven years for brokers with institutional investors in response to increased by 167% to US$277.8 million, while free proved reserves alone.
In September 2005, a further cash flow was US$97.4 million 2004: negative 12 million shares 8.8% of the Company were US$1.0 million despite an 84% increase in capital Over the past year the focus of our activities has placed in a similar way.
As a result, the free float investment.
This result was driven by a 58% extended outside our key producing Burun and has increased to 71.9% of Burrens share capital, increase in entitlement production to 22,440 bopd MBoundi fields towards exploration of new areas.
thus improving the market liquidity of the shares.
2004: 14,170 bopd and by higher oil prices.
Extensive seismic surveys have been carried out The continuing increase in production reflected over the past two years in Turkmenistan and Following a comprehensive review during 2005, successful development drilling and workover Congo, and a new survey is about to commence a combined Health, Safety, Environment and activity in Turkmenistan and, even more in Egypt.
Exploration drilling is continuing in Community HSEC framework was established, significantly, successful development drilling Turkmenistan, Congo and Egypt, and eight heavy co-ordinating a revised set of HSEC policies, in Congo, where 20 new wells were brought rigs have been secured for the 2006 exploration principles and standards.
HSEC managers have into production.
and development programme between these been appointed in London, Turkmenistan and three countries.
We plan to drill up to 20 Egypt.
I am pleased to report that there were no exploration wells over the course of this year to serious accidents in Burren-operated locations See definition in Glossary evaluate an unrisked prospect inventory of over during the period.
An HSEC audit has been 02 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005 carried out of the operations in Congo and steps The Year in Review are being taken to assure high standards are maintained even in the locations where we are January Placing of 22 million shares, representing not the operator.
Burren continues to engage with 16.0% of issued share capital, by pre-flotation local communities, funding a number of social projects in Turkmenistan, including the award shareholders of six postgraduate scholarships in the UK to Turkmen nationals, and supporting a European February Award of two additional exploration blocks Union sponsored conservation programme for in Egypt: North Hurghada Marine and North Lagia wildlife in northern Congo.
There has been one addition to the Board since Acquisition of 26% interest in Hindustan Oil Exploration the beginning of the period: Keith Henry was Company for US$26 million appointed an Independent Non-executive Director on 31 March 2005 and was subsequently designated Senior Independent Director in March Keith Henry is appointed as Independent September 2005.
Non-executive Director Having reached the age of 70, I shall be stepping June Fourth drilling rig arrives on MBoundi.
down as Chairman at the Annual General Meeting on 24 May 2006 although I am delighted to Gross field production hits 45,000 bopd continue to serve as a member of the Board.
I have had the great privilege of fulfilling the August Conditional sale of a 3.5% interest in MBoundi Chairmans role for over seven years during which field to Congolese state-owned oil company SNPC time Burren has developed from a relatively small private company to one of the largest independent oil companies on the London Stock Exchange Signature of US$80 million standing loan facility by market capitalisation.
My successor will be Keith Henry, who has immense knowledge and September Placing of 12 million shares, representing experience of our industry, and I commend him to you.
8.8% of issued share capital, by pre-flotation shareholders, bringing free float to 71.9% In conclusion, I believe that your Company is well placed to enjoy continued growth from October Exploration programme in Turkmenistan its development programmes in Congo and Turkmenistan, from the extensive exploration begins with spudding of first well on Nebit Dag programme on which it is now embarking, and East prospect from exciting new business opportunities in Egypt, Yemen, Oman and India.
Finally, I would like on behalf of the shareholders and the Board December New throughput and blending to express my gratitude to the executives, arrangements at Djeno terminal in Congo, resulting managers and all employees, especially those in in significant improvement in price realisation the field, for their dedication, resourcefulness and hard work in achieving such successful results.
MBoundi gross field production exceeds 55,000 bopd Brian Lavers CBE Chairman 03 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005
