CHAIRMAN S S T A TEMENT The unique attributes of the London market invest as efficiently to grow their businesses and the investment made by the London Stock and make their contribution to economic growth Exchange since listing continue to create and prosperity.
opportunities for the business to grow profitably in a changing global capital market, bringing The changing landscape benets to all our stakeholders.
The world in which the Exchange operates has been changing rapidly over recent years.
Turnover increased by four per cent and adjusted Initiatives to break down barriers across basic earnings per share rose by 11 per cent, European and global capital markets are making reecting improvements in market trends progress in providing investors with access to for our key business areas.
The Board has an ever wider range of investment opportunities recommended a final dividend of 5 pence per across countries and continents.
Technology share, an increase of 47 per cent on the previous has driven down execution costs and enabled years final dividend.
Together with the interim new investment strategies to develop alongside dividend of 2 pence per share, the total dividend existing ones.
for the year rises to 7 pence per share.
Nevertheless, significant barriers remain to truly Our role unfettered cross-border equity investment within The London Stock Exchange plays a central role Europe, burdening investors with unnecessary in the economic well being of society, providing cost, and pension and savings portfolios with the essential apparatus by which companies can still too much national bias.
This means that come together with investors in open and wellthe cost of capital for EU companies remains regulated market conditions.
As equity finance unnecessarily high in global terms, holding back continues to be one of the most important growth and restricting Europes ability to create sources of investment around the globe, the jobs that its economies badly need.
Without companies ability to raise capital efficiently an efficient capital market Europes companies depends on being listed on a deep, liquid central will not have access to investment funds at the equity market.
Without the choice of the cost right price: and their ability to deliver growth in effective capital available on the London Stock the face of the unremitting challenge of global Exchanges markets, companies from the UK, competition will be compromised.
Europe and elsewhere would not be able to 04 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 The ongoing debate in Europe about the relative Paternoster Square merits of different financial market structures The visit by Her Majesty The Queen and is of significant importance for the Exchanges HRH The Duke of Edinburgh to open our new business.
The consideration that the European building in July 2004 marked an important new Commission is currently giving to a directive on phase in the life of the London Stock Exchange.
Clearing and Settlement will help break down The move to Paternoster Square represented barriers to cross border exchange business.
for us a substantial shift not just in location As Europes leading equity market, based on but also in culture.
Unlike the Stock Exchange a horizontal business model untied to any single Tower, the working environment in the new post trade service provider, the London Stock building was specically designed to reect Exchange is in a strong position to capitalise on the way in which our customers do business the outcome.
and enable them to interact better with our staff.
Our investment in new media studios and In London, our market model has been developed a market opening event has also created a public to create a partnership with our customers to face to the equity markets in which all market our mutual advantage.
The speed with which users can participate and through which the London market has been able to adapt Londons markets can be promoted abroad.
to and benefit from developments in global markets and from the advent of new technology Staff demonstrates the power and success of this I would like to extend my thanks to all of the model.
As we continue to innovate in our staff for their commitment and continued hard business so we offer increasing value to market work during the year.
participants who, together with us, are creating a more efficient equity market for the benefit of Community investors and companies.
The Exchanges partnership with Brainwave, the charity that offers therapy to children with The integration of European financial markets developmental delay resulting from brain injury through the convergence of market rules or impairment, is now entering its second year.
presents a unique opportunity to cement The Exchanges staff have been active in raising Londons position as the Wall Street of funds for Brainwave.
During the second year of Europe and gateway to global capital.
Growing the partnership we will be looking for new ways numbers of companies from emerging markets of working together to enable more children are choosing London as the venue to raise and their families to benefit from Brainwaves capital in Europe.
Potential offers for the Company In December we received two proposals, from Deutsche Brse AG and Euronext NV, for a possible combination.
Whilst we did not solicit these approaches, we nevertheless Chris Gibson-Smith committed ourselves to exploring whether Chairman sufficient real value could be achieved for the benefit of shareholders and market users through a potential combination, on the right terms, with another exchange.
Currently both proposals are being considered by the UK Competition Commission and we await the outcome of this review.
In the meantime, we remain fully focused on driving our business forward and capitalising on opportunities for growth in the future.
05 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005
