Chairmans A company with big statement ideas, substantial cash flow and huge potential.
Michael Jackson Chairman 4 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 This annual report and accounts for the year ended At the heart of this has been a determination to recruit and 31 December 2005 is PartyGaming Plcs first.
It has been retain the very best personnel which has been a consistent a year of great progress and one in which several notable feature from the beginning.
Finding the right people with the milestones were reached.
During the year for example, the best skills and attitude has been central to PartyGamings Group took wagers of more than $47 billion, dealt over 1 billion continued success.
This philosophy has been extended to the hands of real money poker and generated revenues of close to formation of the Board of Directors and I am delighted to have $1 billion.
But, as I have learned during my short tenure as fellow directors, all of whom bring a wealth of experience from Chairman since joining the Company in May 2005, this is a variety of different fields.
This business moves at a rapid We are saddened to be saying goodbye to Richard Segal, pace, constantly adapting to changes and opportunities within Chief Executive Officer, on or before 1 June 2006.
instrumental in leading PartyGaming through its successful IPO The listing of PartyGamings shares on the London Stock and guiding it on its current course, one that has already Exchange in June 2005 was one of the largest IPOs to take delivered strong financial results.
Whilst Richard will be sorely place in London for five years.
Little more than two months missed, the Board and the rest of his colleagues respect his after flotation, the Group was included in the FTSE 100 Index decision not to relocate his family to Gibraltar and we wish him of leading companies by market value and is the only pure well for the future.
internet company in the index.
We are currently in the process of recruiting a new Chief Last year, revenues increased by 63%, Clean EBITDA climbed by Executive Officer and in addition, a further independent 49% and Clean Earnings Per Share rose by 49%.
was delivered by a highly talented and motivated workforce, based in Gibraltar, Hyderabad and London.
Regulation PartyGamings operations are licensed and regulated by the Our people Government of Gibraltar.
The regulatory environment for online The Groups 1,300 employees are focused on making 2006 gaming around the world is constantly changing with new rules another year of major progress.
They have already raised and regulations being considered in a number of territories the bar considerably by launching our fully integrated, where we attract players.
This is not surprising given that most Party-branded platform, including PartyPoker and PartyCasino, laws and regulations were not written with the internet in mind.
The Group continues to monitor closely developments regarding any proposed regulatory changes around the globe and PartyGaming has undergone a major transformation from being remains committed to promoting a uniform international a small, entrepreneurial enterprise in 1997 to becoming todays regulatory framework for all online gaming.
world leader in online gaming.
Customers in more than 190 countries and daily stakes wagered of more than $130 million Responsible gaming are just two statistics that show how big this business has Responsible gaming is another area that the Group takes very become.
The Group has risen to the challenges created by such seriously, with PartyGaming being one of only a handful of online rapid development and has retained the core attributes that gaming operators to have been certificated by GamCare.
were critical to its early success.
In this regard, the Group continues to strive to improve the processes and systems in place to protect underage and other vulnerable players.
Dividend Reflecting the Groups strong financial performance in 2005, the Board has recommended the payment of a final dividend of 5.25 cents per share that, if approved by shareholders at the AGM on 4 May 2006, will be paid on 19 May 2006.
Outlook The financial results for 2005 were very encouraging and provide the Group with a solid platform on which to build in 2006.
While the online gaming sector remains competitive, the Groups scale, market position and brand strength combine to provide a solid foundation from which we can consolidate and extend our position in each of our core products and geographic territories.
2006 has started strongly and your Board remains excited about the Groups prospects.
Final dividend The Group has recommended its first dividend as a public company, which will be the final dividend for the year ended 2005, of 5.25 cents per share.
