Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 2 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report a robust performance private investor margins, and to enjoy an for the Man Group, with strong growth in improved margin on institutional assets.
both management fee income and in our Net management fee income for the year brokerage business.
represented 1.5% of average funds under management, up from 1.4% last year.
Funds under management at the year-end Reflecting the diversity of managers were $43.0 billion, up from $38.5 billion at in our portfolio, net performance fees of March 2004, reflecting modestly positive $119 million were earned, resulting in a total investment movement, record gross sales, profit before tax and goodwill amortisation a low level of redemptions and the maturity for Asset Management of $733 million.
of a fixed term institutional mandate.
Net management fee income was up 34% Overall, funds under management in the and, in combination with a strong year for industry have grown at 25% per annum Brokerage, resulted in diluted underlying since 1990 to stand at just over $1 trillion Harvey McGrath earnings per share, a measure which at 31 March 2005.
In our view, this growth Chairman, Man Group plc excludes performance related income, reflects an ongoing structural change in the Sugar Australia, goodwill amortisation and way in which investors are evaluating total exceptional items, increasing 28% to 181 portfolio risk and making allocation decisions.
Diluted earnings per share on total Consequently, we expect to see continued operations was 182 cents, up 8% on the growth over the medium-term in assets prior year and leading to a 26.8% post-tax allocated to alternative investment strategies return on equity.
that provide attractive risk reward profiles and portfolio diversification.
Given this favourable These results have clearly met our key demand outlook, we will continue to enhance financial targets, being the delivery of and consolidate Man Investments role as a significant growth in underlying earnings leading provider of access to these and the maintenance of a high return on alternative investment strategies to both equity.
Net cash inflow for the year was private and institutional investors worldwide.
$408 million, driven off strong cash generation from net operating profits.
Man Financial, our brokerage business, Accordingly, and given our strong financial has extended its record of consistent condition, the Board proposes a final growth with profits before tax and goodwill dividend of 42.0 cents per share, for a amortisation of $145 million, up 21% on total dividend for the year of 66.0 cents, the prior year.
This success reflects our an increase of 30%.
leading market positions across the principal exchanges, providing trade execution, In Asset Management, sales for the year were clearing, intermediary and matched principal $12.1 billion, up from $11.5 billion in the prior services to institutional and private clients year.
This was a significant accomplishment, worldwide, against the backdrop of another not least because the year saw low volatility strong year of global volume growth in and range-bound markets, particularly in the exchange traded derivatives.
Our focus first half, leading to lacklustre returns from the on cost containment, in the context of the industry and from many of our products.
In ongoing transition to screen-based markets the year to 31 March 2005 AHL benchmark and the increasing convergence of cash funds returned -5.4%, RMF 3.0%, Glenwood and futures markets has facilitated this 0.6% and Man Global Strategies -2.7%.
growth and enabled us to maintain our For the industry, and for us, this performance attractive margin structure.
All product contributed to a lower level of private investor lines have performed well, with another sales, with $6.3 billion raised, down from outstanding result from our interest rate $7.8 billion in the prior year.
Institutional product group, despite intermittent periods sales for the year were $5.8 billion, up of subdued market activity during the year.
from $3.7 billion in the prior year.
This in The foreign exchange, energy and metals part reflects the successful remarketing businesses performed strongly, benefiting of $2.4 billion from a $3.1 billion mandate from active markets and enhanced teams.
which matured during the year.
Of the The institutional equities business, including record $12.1 billion raised overall during the recent European cash equities initiative, the year, Europe contributed 58% of global has also performed well.
The private client sales with Asia Pacific, the Americas and business continued to expand its presence the Middle East contributing 31%, 7%, and in both Europe and in the US.
Looking forward we expect Man Financials Higher asset levels drove net management markets to continue to expand and believe fee income up 34% to $614 million.
We that our business model, focused on growing continue to see no downward pressure on market share, diversifying revenue streams, Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 3 Chairmans Statement Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectetuer adipiscing elit sed diam nonummy nibh euismod tincidunt ut laoreet dolore magna aliquam erat volutpat.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 4 Chairmans Statement Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 5 Chairmans Statement controlling overheads and exploiting scale Overall, this has been a good year for the In conclusion, the Board is confident of advantages will support a continued growth Group, and I once again offer my thanks and the Groups prospects for the coming year.
in profitability from this business.
congratulations to Stanley Fink, his executive We are seeing improved private investor team and all our staff worldwide whose demand feeding through into product sales, Corporately, this has been an active year efforts have contributed to these results.
with the global offering Man AP Enhanced with a focus on preparation for the Series 2, which closed in April, raising conversion to International Financial Thanks are also due to our non-executive $438 million, and a good level of activity Reporting Standards IFRS, enhanced risk directors for their ongoing valuable in the forward pipeline.
Funds under management capability and the ongoing contribution.
Although there were no Board management are currently estimated development of an economic capital model.
changes during the financial year, at this to be over $43.0 billion.
The brokerage The Group will implement IFRS for the year years Annual General Meeting Stephen business has also enjoyed a good start ending 31 March 2006.
To ensure that the Nesbitt will be retiring from the Board.
impact of this change is understood, we He joined Man as a Director in 1987, intend to release on 5 July 2005 summary assuming the Chairmanship of the Man IFRS financial information for the year ended Financial and Man Investments Divisions 31 March 2005 together with a reconciliation in 1989 before becoming a non-executive to the UK GAAP figures.
In response to director in 1997.
With his wise counsel and both growth in the business and changing strong commitment to his role, Stephen regulatory requirements we have continued has made a significant contribution to the Harvey McGrath to enhance our risk management capabilities, Company during his years of service, for Chairman including enhanced governance structures, which his colleagues thank him.
revised risk policies and the introduction of new risk measurement and management methodologies.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 6 Operating Review
