Chairmans statement The past 12 months have been a time of transition as Cable & Richard Lapthorne Wireless entered a new phase in the three-year programme to Chairman revive the Group.
By the end of the year, the Chief Executive and his new team were no longer preoccupied with the Groups past, and had turned confidently to face the future.
A year of transition Over the past year, management has delivered on the promises it made in June 2003.
We completed our exit from the US market at considerably lower cost than originally expected.
This allowed the Chief Executive to concentrate on the restructuring of our UK business and on defining a path to a sustainable position in this market.
An enormous amount of work has gone into improving operations and tightening cost controls in the legacy businesses.
Customer focus has been central to our new structures.
Turnaround programme on track We are also seeing some excellent groundwork in network development.
A prime example is our investment in Bulldog, the Revenue from continuing operations UK broadband operator we acquired last May.
Bulldog gives us stable at constant currency network access across the last mile to the customer, enabling us to offer an end-to-end service in competition with BT.
Building our customer base in this way is an important goal as we embark Launch of 250 million share upon investment of 190 million over three years in our UK IP-based Next Generation Network.
This new technology offers buyback programme network economies that will benefit our customers and improve our margins.
In this context, we welcome Ofcoms vision of a UK telecommunications market based on realistic and sustainable Initiated 190 million investment in competition among players willing to invest in future technological strength.
Next Generation Networks Our financial disciplines and continued cost reduction have created a stable framework so that Cable & Wireless can move forward.
Targeted National Telcos investment Since November, a corporate reorganisation has refocused our in broadband, IP and mobile activities on the key customer segments at the heart of our business.
We are now well-placed to exploit rising global demand for broadband, IP and mobile services across the whole market, from large multinational corporations to residential users.
Outside the UK, our National Telcos have become more aggressive in dealing with competition.
Co-operation and communication have also improved between our operations, so that these businesses can benefit from each others experiences of the rapidly liberalising telecom landscape.
We are successfully capitalising on the controlling stake in Monaco Telecom acquired a year ago, and will take opportunities to expand our footprint into new geographies as appropriate.
The exit from the US and disposal of our Japanese business kept our cash intact, which allowed us, in November 2004, to launch a 250 million share buyback.
As at March 2005 we had bought back 60.5 million shares, at an average price of 124.4 pence.
Profile Chairmans statement Results and dividend The 2005 financial performance demonstrates our progress.
Profit before taxation and exceptional items for continuing operations, for the year ended 31 March 2005, was 361 million.
Revenue from continuing operations at 3,023 million, was stable at constant currency compared to 2004.
The Board has recommended a full year dividend of 3.8 pence per share, after paying 1.16 pence per share at the interim stage.
This represents a 21 per cent increase in the total dividend, indicating our confidence in the Group.
The Board The Board was strengthened during the year.
In July, George Battersby joined the executive team as Group Human Resources Director and in December, Harris Jones was appointed as Executive Director, International Businesses.
We also appointed three new Non-executive Directors, Kate Nealon, Agns Touraine and Clive Butler.
Their combined experience has significantly broadened the skills of our Board as we undertake the next stage of the Groups transformation.
Kevin Loosemore resigned from the Board on 1 December 2004 and left Cable & Wireless at the end of the financial year, we would like to thank him for his contributions.
Dr Janet Morgan retired from the Board in July 2004 having served 16 years during which time her contribution has been considerable, and for which we thank her.
On page 35, our senior Non-executive Director reports on the four key aspects of good corporate governance.
I am pleased to report that Cable & Wireless continues to operate governance to high standards.
Our team Cost-cutting and corporate reorganisation has inevitably been unsettling for staff, and I want to thank our management and employees for meeting the challenges so far with resilience and determination.
Their contribution has enabled us to strengthen our business for the future.
Looking ahead Our markets continue to suffer from excess capacity and severe price competition.
Performance improvement will come from efficiencies and cost-cutting, and a shift in our sales mix towards broadband, IP and mobile.
We are in a unique position to help our customers embrace these new technologies and I look forward with confidence to the year ahead.
Richard Lapthorne Chairman 6 7 2005 Annual Report
