Chairmans Statement Performance exercise their warrants last April at a share price of 219p.
It gives me considerable pleasure in my final report to you as Despite the very significant increase from that level, the outlook Chairman to record that the Net Asset Value of your Company for the sector remains favourable, as discussed in the Investment on a total return basis has risen by 48.6% since the interim Managers Report.
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers has stage, making for an increase over the full reporting year of submitted a proposal for a further bonus warrant issue, albeit 63.9%.
This is our fifth consecutive year of growth, with the one with different characteristics from its predecessor.
The share price rising by 63% over the period on a total return basis.
Board is in favour of the proposal, details of which are set out in By comparison, the benchmark index appreciated by 58.6%.
the circular enclosed with this report.
The issue is subject to The two most significant countries for commodities demand, shareholder approval and you will have the opportunity to vote the USA and China, continued to experience strong economic upon it at the Extraordinary General Meeting to be held growth throughout 2005, leading to further upward pressure in immediately following the conclusion of the Annual General the metals and minerals markets.
through investors generally increasing their appetite for this asset class.
Award We were especially pleased that the Company was recently Financial statements honoured as the Bloomberg Money Specialist Investment Trust For accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2005, of the year.
all UK listed groups are required by EU law to present their financial statements in accordance with International Financial Board changes Reporting Standards IFRS.
Consequently these are the first Having reached 70, I will be stepping down as Chairman annual results for the Company prepared under IFRS, and the immediately on the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual most significant change is the movement from mid to bid price General Meeting.
It is with more than a little satisfaction that I for the valuation of investments.
The net impact of this on the consider your Board to be of such strength that any member Companys net asset value at 31 December 2005 was a would make an excellent successor.
Further information and full reconciliations between the restated comparative numbers and the previously I discussed the situation individually with all the Directors and I reported UK GAAP amounts are given in the notes to the decided that the consensus of opinion was that we should invite financial statements.
IFRS will not make any difference to the Tony Lea to take on this role.
He has just retired as the Finance operating practices of the Company.
Director of Anglo American plc and has already proved a great asset on this Board to which he was appointed at the end of Earnings July 2005.
I am delighted to report that he has agreed to accept Revenue return per share amounted to 3.39p as against 3.01p this invitation and I wish him every success.
I hope he enjoys it for the previous year, an uplift of 12.6%.
These have once again as much as I have done these past 12 years.
Shareholders, profited from some investment trading.
The dividend, which Directors and fund managers have all shown me great courtesy has increased for each of the last 7 years, will this year rise to and support throughout this time, for which I will remain 1.80p plus a special dividend of 1.00p.
I am also very pleased profoundly grateful.
to note that since the inception of the Company in 1993 and my appointment as its Chairman, ordinary dividends have Outlook increased by 134% and if special dividends are included, by a The outlook appears to be more of the same China will be key massive 264%.
for the fifth consecutive year and US growth should continue to hold up.
With the prospects of higher dividends, further share Discount, warrant issues buy backs and continued corporate activity, the sector may well During the year the shares traded at a discount to NAV of maintain its outperformance of the global equity indices.
between 16.8% and 8%, ending the year at 11.5%.
Your P S Wilmot-Sitwell Board continues to be mindful of the discount, which it believes 9 February 2006 would be diminished through a higher capital base.
As I mentioned in my interim statement, it was very disappointing that given market circumstances shareholders largely declined to 4
