Chairmans statement John Sunderland gives an overview of the Groups performance in 2005 and the outlook for 2006 A year of strong revenue growth The transaction completed on 2 February 2005 was another successful year for 2006, and the price achieved and the quick Cadbury Schweppes.
We achieved our resolution represent an excellent outcome.
highest rate of revenue growth for a decade, with all of our major businesses Management making a significant contribution.
We are Our performance is a testament to the now over halfway through the four-year achievements of our management team led plan upon which we embarked in 2003. by Todd Stitzer.
During 2005, we further In the plan are specific financial commitments strengthened our senior management cadre against which shareowners can monitor with two key external appointments: Jim our performance.
These are to: grow Chambers as President of Americas revenues by 3-5% each year: improve Confectionery and Steve Driver as our profit margins by 50-75 basis points President of Global Supply Chain.
Following per annum: and generate a four-year Mike Clarks retirement, his joint role as cumulative free cash flow of 1.5 billion.
Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary was split between two internal appointees, In 2005, we achieved two of these three Hank Udow and Hester Blanks respectively.
targets, namely excellent revenue growth The strength of our management team and higher free cash flow.
We made continues to be recognised and for the slightly less progress than we would have tenth year in a row Cadbury Schweppes liked on margin improvement.
This is was voted amongst the top ten in Britains disappointing, but mainly the consequence Most Admired Companies in Management of a very challenging cost environment, Todays poll of our UK peers.
We have also particularly in energy, transport and received 50 other awards around the world packaging.
Reported sales were 6.5 for differing aspects of our performance.
billion, which, on a like-for-like basis, represented an increase of 6%.
Operating Governance margins were 15.9%, an increase of The United Kingdom now enjoys probably 30 basis points and free cash flow was the highest standards of corporate 404 million.
Underlying earnings per share governance in the modern business world.
were ahead by 9% on a like-for-like basis.
The revised Combined Code is two years old and I am pleased to report that your Sale of Europe Beverages Company is compliant with it in all key During 2005, we undertook a strategic aspects.
Our four main Committees and the review of our Europe Beverages business Board have all benefited from the Codes and decided to dispose of this part of the revisions.
In particular, the Board evaluation Group.
This will allow us to focus financial exercise has both refined the Boards and management resources on our processes and strengthened the rigour confectionery and other beverage of our discussions and oversight.
businesses which have greater potential for higher growth and returns.
On Corporate and Social Responsibility 21 November 2005, we announced that We regard our responsibility as a wealth we had received a binding offer of 1.26 creator in society as of the utmost billion from a private equity consortium importance.
However, while our prime formed by the Blackstone Group and Lion obligation is always to our shareowners, Capital.
The proceeds from the sale have we work hard to ensure that our been used to reduce the Groups net debt, obligations to our other stakeholders which at 1 January 2006 was 3.9 billion.
consumers, employees, suppliers, customers 4 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 and the communities in which we operate as a consequence of increased longevity and strengthen the Board with two further are fully discharged.
long-term stock market performance has non-executive appointments.
Cadbury Schweppes In particular, the impact of our community has always been committed to the provision Lord Patten joined at the beginning of July.
programmes around the world broadens of appropriate overall compensation to our His time in political office and extensive every year.
We seek to recognise individual employees.
This includes post-retirement experience of international relations will be and team contributions through the benefits through defined benefit and of great value to our business since we are Chairmans Award scheme bi-annually.
now represented in almost every country year we received 89 submissions, a third up in the world.
All of these programmes have In common with many other large pension made substantial impacts upon the local funds, our schemes have an overall Secondly, we have just announced the communities in which we operate.
Choosing accounting deficit under IAS19, currently appointment of Sanjiv Ahuja, Chief the winner from such a list was not easy!
As a proportion of our market Executive Officer of Orange SA.
He has capitalisation at the year end, Cadbury substantial experience of international Food issues Schweppes deficit was only 3%, smaller business, having worked in the USA and Last year I described the challenge which than many of our peers.
We look forward to the addition the food industry faces as society tackles the have decided to address this deficit.
of his broad business acumen to the Board.
We remain convinced Following the successful disposal of Europe that this is a whole-life problem, not simply Beverages we will make payments into our Dividend a food problem.
Our way of life has changed, pension funds totalling some 125 million, The Board is recommending a final dividend manual work and exercise have diminished, of which 31 million was paid in advance of 9.0 pence, taking the total dividend to 13.0 and patterns of food consumption have in 2005, the remainder being paid this year.
pence, a 4% increase on last year.
It will be altered in adaptation to modern lifestyles.
Over 75 million of this is in respect of paid on 26 May to those of our shareowners However the industry has been keen to use our UK commitments.
In addition, we will who are on the register at 28 April.
its knowledge of consumers to help deliver provide sufficient additional funding in better understanding and information with excess of the normal employer and employee Outlook regard to the achievement of a balanced contributions over the following three years In 2006, we expect to continue the lifestyle.
Product development has focused to ensure that any deficit remaining on good progress we have made over the on the reduction of salt, removal of trans fats these schemes is adequately managed.
and the increasing use of natural ingredients.
Colleagues around the world The flexibility provided by the sale of Most importantly, in January, Cadbury We have over 55,000 employees around Europe Beverages and disposals of other Schweppes announced a change to the the world and it is they who individually non-core assets will enable us to strengthen labelling of our products under the Be and collectively deliver the results described further our confectionery and beverage Treatwise banner.
This will provide in this Annual Review.
We recognise this platforms through strategic capital consumers with substantially enhanced and are indebted to their commitment to investments and bolt-on acquisitions.
information about our brands composition both their individual roles and the Company We expect to deliver results within our and calorific content, expressed as proportions overall.
The Board and I are grateful for this financial goal ranges in 2006. of recommended Guideline Daily Amounts.
This is a major advance in helping consumers achieve a balanced lifestyle, and much The Board preferred by them to some of the more Our Board has changed relatively little over bizarre schemes that have been proposed recent years and we have gained much such as traffic light labelling.
It is illustrated from this consistency.
However, two of our at the top of this page.
non-executive colleagues are approaching John Sunderland a decade of service and will therefore be Chairman Pensions retiring in the near future.
I am delighted, The growing concern around pension deficits therefore, that we have been able to Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 5
