CHAIRMANS STATEMENT highlights Over the year NAV rose by The US holdings, especially The outlook remains uncertain: 7.1% compared with a 1.3% the oil companies, made a company results have been good rise in the FTSE World Index in major contribution to the but imbalances in the US sterling terms.
Chairmans Statement Monks performed well in the twelve months dollar exchange rate from $1.77 to $1.91 1.02p.
Income rose by 8.6%, despite to 30 April 2005, even if the results were meant that in sterling terms the market was adverse currency movements, as not as striking in either absolute or relative down by 3.0%.
The Tokyo market did even companies became much more generous terms as they had been in the previous worse, falling by 4.8% in yen terms and in their dividend policies, and interest year.
Net asset value rose by 7.0% to 7.0% in sterling.
The attribution table on received rose because we held higher cash 222.6p.
This rise compares favourably page 12 shows that we had a positive balances during the year.
Interest expense with the 1.3% increase in the FTSE World contribution from stock picking, thanks and the tax charge both fell.
These factors Index in sterling terms which the Board largely to outstanding results in North in combination have produced a much uses as a broad comparative measure for America, the fifth year in the last six that better outcome than expected and the the Companys performance.
we have outperformed in that market.
We Board is recommending a substantially also did well in Japan, Asia and Emerging increased final dividend of 1.20p as The first six months of the year saw rather Markets.
However, we did less well in against last years 0.65p, to give a total quiet market conditions: our net asset value Europe and the UK, the latter seeing the for the year of 1.70p, up 61.9% on last rose by 2.0% to 212.2p, while the world first underperformance for seven years.
At this stage, we are index was almost unchanged, rising by Asset allocation also made a positive expecting a lower earnings figure for the 0.4%.
In the second half conditions were contribution: having less than the index in current year, although this may well better and net asset value rose by 4.9% America was helpful, as was the heavy improve if companies continue to push up against a rise of only 0.9% in the index.
exposure in Britain and Asia.
On the other their distributions.
As was the case last year, there was a hand we suffered from having less than the considerable divergence in the index in Europe and more in Japan, where Investment Activity performance of the various markets in our positive view of the macro-economic which we invest.
Pacific ex Japan was the Twelve months ago our view of the prospects twelve months ago has turned best area, up 9.8%, followed by Europe ex prospects for the year ahead was cautious, out to be wrong.
and early in June 2004 we made some However, two of the largest markets, the equity sales in the UK, the US and Europe Revenue Account United States and Japan, fared badly.
The to raise cash levels to the point where S&P index in the United States rose by Earnings per share were 1.73p, an deposits and fixed interest investments 4.5% in dollar terms, but the fall in the increase of almost 70% on last years broadly offset our 80m of debenture Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
6 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Sir Charles Nunneley Chairman borrowings.
We have maintained this trusts to be authorised and regulated by the Share Rating neutral stance since then but there has Financial Services Authority.
Virtually British investors have continued to show been some switching activity, including a unanimously, led by the Association of little interest or confidence in investing in reduction of some 6m in Japan and an Investment Trust Companies, investment trust the stockmarket, a problem which is not increase in Asia Pacific and Emerging boards, including your own, have stated unique to the investment trust sector as can Markets.
In late November, we decided to firmly that existing regulation under be seen from the low level of sales of unit hedge against further weakness in the US company law and the Stock Exchange trusts.
As a result the proportion of our dollar by selling $200m, about half of the Listing Rules is more than adequate, that shares held by individuals, set out on page value of our American holdings, six months the problems leading to mis-selling have 52, has shown very little change.
Nor has forward against sterling at a rate of already been addressed by changes to the the discount to net asset value at which our $1.88.
Although the hedge showed a Rules, and that an additional layer of shares trade shown any narrowing over the profit of 1.2m at our year end, the dollar regulation would be unnecessary, year, despite the good relative subsequently recovered and the hedge has expensive and time-consuming.
We now performance of our portfolio and the efforts been allowed to expire at a cost of some await the Treasury verdict.
being made by the Managers to market 3.3m.
Although the market in our Corporate Governance shares has generally seen good two way Regulatory Matters business, there has been insufficient The Directors believe that the Company appetite to soak up large lines of stock, After a lengthy investigation, the Financial operates in full accordance with best and we bought in 3 million shares for Services Authority eventually agreed the practice in corporate governance.
In cancellation when a long established terms of a settlement with most of those particular, we have during the year carried insurance company portfolio was whom it had accused of mis-selling splitout reviews of the performance of the Board liquidated last summer.
Meanwhile, as a whole and as individuals, and all following comments made by the Treasury aspects of the services provided to the Select Committee during its own Company by its Managers.
The results of The Board investigation into the affair, the Treasury these reviews were satisfactory.
Further There have been no changes to the has produced a consultation paper seeking details can be found in the Corporate composition of the Board since the last views on the case for requiring investment Governance section of the Directors Report.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AGM.
However, as has already been sector is, by and large, doing well and and prospects for, our equity holdings announced, I will be retiring at the companies are sharing their prosperity with outweigh the negatives, and we propose forthcoming Annual General Meeting: I their shareholders by improving dividend to continue for the time being with our have been Chairman for nine years and rates and buying in shares.
However, there policy of full equity investment but no will be 70 before the end of the remain plenty of worries.
Companys current financial year, which election has taken place in Iraq and a are two good reasons for bowing out.
government has been formed, the security AGM position there seems no better than it was We have also already announced that my I look forward to seeing shareholders of the twelve months ago.
Political tensions exist successor as Chairman will be James in other parts of the world, notably in the Company at the Annual General Meeting Ferguson.
James has been a director of the to be held at the Institution of Electrical East China Sea, and oil supplies are very Company since 2002 and, as can be seen Engineers, Savoy Place, London on dependent on countries which are either from the details of his career set out on 2 August.
corrupt, unstable or showing increasingly pages 9 and 10, he has a wealth of anti-western tendencies.
In Europe, the The Managers will make a short experience of the investment industry in results of the recent referenda and the presentation at the meeting and there will general and of the investment trust sector in weak political position of a number of be an opportunity to ask questions.
I have every confidence that the national governments have raised questions Company will prosper under his leadership.
about the future course of the European He and his colleagues have no plans to Union and the euro.
Perhaps most recruit anyone else to the Board at present.
seriously, the imbalances in the US economy a huge trade deficit, high levels Outlook Charles Nunneley of consumer indebtedness, and a As ever, the prospects are uncertain.
17 June 2005 deteriorating fiscal position have not Despite sluggish growth in Japan and some improved at all over the last year and of the large European countries, general indeed have become more extreme.
economic conditions in the world remain buoyant while there are no immediate On balance, however, we feel that the concerns about inflation.
The corporate positives principally excellent results from, 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2005
