Chairmans Statement Performance on the register on 30 September 2005, making total The Net Asset Value total return for the year ended dividends for the year ended 30 June 2005 of 19.15p.
This compares with the This represents an increase of 4.9% on the total return on the FTSE All-Share Index, the Companys dividends paid in the previous year and continues the new benchmark, of 18.7% and the FTSE 350 Higher steady increase which has taken place for more than Yield Index, the Companys benchmark until 30 June twenty years.
Over the year ended 30 June 2005, Last years revenue account included the last Murray Incomes Net Asset Value Total Return was dividends from Royal Bank of Scotlands Additional ranked 8 out of 16 within the AITC UK Growth and Value Shares, which have since been redeemed.
Attribution Analysis shows that stock allowing for this, the dividend growth in the portfolio and asset allocation benefited the Company by 2.0% was about 9%.
At the corporate level, it is and 2.8% respectively and gearing by 0.8%.
It is encouraging to see a rise in the rate of growth in pleasing to note that this AITC sector outperformed dividends with many companies recognising the comparable open-ended peer group over the Shareholders desire to allocate their own capital.
Share Buybacks and Treasury Shares Objectives At the Annual General Meeting held on 27 October Your Boards aim is to provide an investment of 2004, Shareholders approved the renewal of the choice in the Companys sector of the equity market.
authority permitting the Company to repurchase its Obviously this means the provision of high-quality Ordinary shares.
Consequently, during the year performance both in capital and income terms.
Your ended 30 June 2005, the Company repurchased investment managers are working hard to provide 2,505,000 Ordinary shares at an average price of this and last years results are encouraging.
It also 488.36p, representing 3.64% of the share capital at means the provision of liquidity and the limitation of 27 October 2004, the date of renewal of the discount volatility.
We have for some time operated authority.
These repurchases contributed marginally a buyback policy which has sought to address these to an increase in the Net Asset Value of the issues.
However, we believe that the reduction in remaining Ordinary shares.
capital committed to the marketmaking function by securities houses means that we should adopt the Enclosed with this Annual Report is a Circular setting power to buy shares into Treasury, rather than out the Boards proposals regarding the introduction simply for cancellation, in order to improve liquidity.
of Treasury shares, for which Shareholders approval We are asking Shareholders for the power to re-issue will be sought at the Annual General Meeting.
To these shares at prices below Net Asset Value but enable the Company to purchase its own shares and with a limitation on the overall level of dilution that hold them in Treasury for subsequent resale or cancellation, it is necessary to amend the Articles of can take place over a year.
Further details of the Association of the Company.
Consequently, this proposed arrangements regarding the issue of shares information is contained in the Circular.
from Treasury is set out in the Circular which has been sent to Shareholders.
This does represent a Management Fee significant change in the operation of your Company The management fee arrangements have been which we believe to be in the interests of all reviewed during the year and two main changes shareholders.
agreed, namely a move from a management fee based on gross assets to one based on net assets and Dividends also the removal of the initial fixed fee element of Interim dividends were paid on 17 January 2005, 15 37,500 each month.
Accordingly from 1 July 2005, April 2005 and 15 July 2005 each at the rate of the fee charged will be as follows: a monthly fee at 4.50p per Ordinary share.
the rate of one twelfth of 0.55% on the first 400 The Directors propose a final dividend payment of million of net assets, 0.45% on the next 150 million 5.65p, payable on 31 October 2005 to Shareholders of net assets and 0.25% on the excess over 550 10 Murray Income Trust PLC million.
Assuming an unchanged level of net assets 4 August 2005.
He is a Director of Fleming Family from that at 30 June 2005, this would result in an and Partners Asset Management and is responsible overall saving to shareholders of 46,000 per annum for the management of investment portfolios for the in the management fee.
The investment Fleming family and for other clients.
He has over 25 management fee remains chargeable 50% to years experience in investment analysis and research revenue and 50% against realised capital reserves.
and while at Flemings, he was Head of Global The secretarial fee, which is chargeable 100% to Research and deputy chair on the asset allocation revenue, has been increased from 50,000 to committee.
Outlook Strategy and Borrowing The UK economy appears to be slowing down At the year end total committed facilities amounted principally because of slow growth in real incomes to 45 million, of which 16 million was being and relatively high levels of consumer debt.
Subsequently, the level of utilisation has markets this may lead to a conflict between a been increased to 20 million.
worsening profit outlook and the benign impact of low interest rates.
Given the already high levels of Your Board corporate profits and the strong performance of Sir David Trippier has served just over nine years on equity markets we may be in for a quieter period.
the Board and in line with best practice has decided However, dividend levels in our portfolio appear to to retire from the Board at the AGM.
The Board be secure and should help considerably to underpin would like to take this opportunity to thank him for share prices.
his contributions to the Boards deliberations over this time.
We again appointed consultants to help Patrick Gifford identify a new Director.
We are pleased to have Chairman appointed Neil Honebon as a Director on 13 September 2005 Murray Income Trust PLC 11
