Chairmans Statement Background Ordinary share, an increase of 7%, be paid for the year to Global Equity markets strengthened over the review period 31 December 2006, payable on 14 August 2006, 15 despite some fairly challenging economic fundamentals.
The proposed The continuing rise in US interest rates, albeit from a very increase reflects the Boards expectation of continuing low base, threatened at times to restrict funds available for rising revenue but also is intended to reduce the disparity investment, but in the event did not.
The prospect of rising between the interim and final dividends.
It is also the inflation was also a concern causing periodic anxiety in Boards intention that the final dividend for the year to 31 bond markets.
Above all, consumers were forced to face December 2006 of 6.65p will be at least maintained.
the reality of dwindling purchasing power.
What served to override such economic gloom was the strength of B Ordinary Shareholders will receive a capitalisation in B corporate earnings and expectations that this trend would Ordinary shares on 19 May 2006 amounting to 3.02225 continue.
A sharp increase in company mergers and Ordinary shares for every hundred held at the close of acquisitions merely enhanced prevailing positive market business on 21 April 2006, which is equivalent in Net Asset sentiment.
The net result was the third consecutive year Value to the recommended final dividend and three of double digit returns for most global equity markets in interim dividends for the current year.
Against any historical benchmark, these were well-above average financial returns.
Circular The enclosed Circular gives details of a change proposed by Performance the Board to the Articles of the Company in respect of the The total return on Net Asset Value was 31.0%, B Ordinary Shares.
Our Articles currently provide for the considerably ahead of the return on the benchmark index scrip dividend on B Ordinary Shares to be paid once a year, of 23.4%, whilst the Share Price total return of 33.5% at mid-year, whilst Ordinary shareholders receive dividends reflected a slight reduction over the year in the level of four times a year.
This means that the interim dividends discount at which the shares trade in the stock market.
for the coming financial year have to be announced at the The Investment Managers Report contains an attribution same time as the final dividend for the latest financial year.
analysis which provides detailed analysis of all factors This, of-course, is well before the revenue out of which affecting net asset performance.
The key positive these dividends have to be paid, is received by the influences were significant overweights in Japan, Asia and Company.
The Board believes that it is unsatisfactory to Latin America.
Both the UK and US markets struggled to declare dividends on the basis of estimated as opposed to match the Global average.
Hence large underweightings in actual earnings.
Assuming the proposals are approved by each also contributed positively to relative shareholders at this years Annual General Meeting, the outperformance.
change will take effect for the declaration of the final dividend for the year ending 31 December 2006.
A bonus The Managers again received the maximum performance issue of B Ordinary shares will be calculated at the same fee as a result of their strong outperformance of the time that any dividend is declared on the Ordinary shares.
All other rights attached to the B shareholders would remain the same.
Dividends I am pleased to report that the shortfall between earnings Issue of New Shares and the proposed dividend for the year has been The Board is also proposing a change relating to the issue eliminated and and following the increase of 2.9% in the of new shares.
At present new shares up to a maximum of three interims for the year to 3.55p per Ordinary Share, the 5% of the issued capital of the Company may be allocated Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.65p per share by the Directors to shareholders at a premium of not less payable on 19 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at than 2.5% to the underlying asset value.
This percentage the close of business on 21 April 2006 This would bring was fixed some time ago in order to avoid diluting existing the total distribution for the year to 17.3p per share shareholder value.
This power has never been used partly compared with 16.3p last year, a rise of 6.1%.
The board because investors would be unlikely to accept new shares also proposes that three interim dividends of 3.8p per at such a premium when the existing shares sell at a 10 Murray International Trust PLC discount in the market.
However, should an opportunity was responsible for UBS Wealth Management in Scotland arise to exercise this power, existing shareholders would until 2004.
Further details of his directorships are included benefit by spreading the fixed costs of the Company over a on page 4. larger asset base.
Any issue should, of course, involve no dilution for existing shareholders but a margin of 2.5% is Outlook no longer necessary to achieve that objective.
The Board Looking forward there is no denying that the prospects for proposes that the 2.5% premium should be replaced with a Global Equity markets this year will be greatly influenced lower premium of 0.5%.
Resolution 10 sets out this by whether the Federal Reserve in the United States can proposal.
successfully engineer a soft landing for the US economy.
The fact that it is considering an end to raising interest Annual General Meeting rates before a slow down in economic activity has You will see that this year the Annual General Meeting will materialised suggests it is already worried about being be held in London.
It is some years since this was done and over-restrictive.
Historically high levels of consumer the Board feels that it is important to give shareholders indebtness have made management of monetary policy based in London, an opportunity to meet the Directors and particularly difficult.
Both the US and UK markets still Manager from time to time.
Next year, it is the Boards appear unattractive relative to deteriorating underlying intention to hold the Annual General Meeting in Scotland.
fundamentals, but stronger economic growth and corporate profitability in Asia and Emerging markets Your Board continue to provide interesting opportunities for diverse In last years report I mentioned that Sir Raymond international investment.
Johnstone would be retiring at the AGM in 2005.
We were very pleased to welcome Jim Best to the Board on 30 June 2005.
Jim is a partner of Arkios Ltd, a London merchant J F H Trott bank.
He was formerly a Managing Director with UBS and 23 February 2006 Chairman Murray International Trust PLC 11
