2 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Norman Murray Chairman Cairn consistently seeks to create value for its shareholders.
Various options available for realising shareholder value and for positioning the Company for new growth have been It has achieved this by establishing a strong strategic position considered by the Cairn Board.
Consistent with the long in South Asia, where it has made more than 25 oil and gas stated objective of adding and realising value for shareholders discoveries.
In particular, the Company is ideally placed a review of the business has concluded that it is now an through its world class discoveries in Rajasthan to continue appropriate juncture to examine a partial initial public offering to play a part in the economic growth of the region.
IPO of the Indian E&P business on the Bombay Stock Exchange, prior to first oil from Mangala and subject to Overview market conditions.
For more than a decade Cairn has established a record in South Asia for first, finding hydrocarbons, and then It is our view that a partial IPO of Cairns Indian business will developing these fields through to production on a fast track reinforce the Companys competitive business edge and basis.
Throughout this time the Company and its joint venture established track record in India, at a time of tremendous partners have invested more than $2 billion in a variety of future cash flow generation and so position it more effectively exploration and production E&P projects that are helping to to maximise new investment opportunities in the rapidly provide energy for the rapidly expanding economies of India expanding Indian market.
Cairn will also examine methods of and Bangladesh.
returning the substantial part of any cash proceeds to shareholders.
Post any partial IPO, the rest of the business During 2005, Cairn grew apace to meet the task of developing will continue to follow a strategy of adding shareholder value the Mangala field against a backdrop of India emerging as an through material exploration.
area of world focus for future industry activity and investment.
Cairn will keep the market informed of any developments on Corporate the partial IPO.
Following our recent successes in India and the consequential changing nature of the business we now believe the time is Stakeholders right to examine methods of increasing the local autonomy of Communication and interaction with stakeholders is given a our Indian business.
In November 2005 we hosted a visit to India for investors and analysts in order that they could see for themselves some of our producing assets and the ongoing operations in Rajasthan.
The visit also allowed attendees to meet key people not only inside but also outside of the organisation, enabling them to witness first-hand the importance of the relationships Cairn has built up in South EVENTS IN THE LAST YEAR Asia and the positive approach the Government of India GoI takes to foreign investment.
In the coming year the Board also Hosted the World Oil and Gas Assembly in Jaipur.
plans to hold two of its regular meetings in India.
Secured further exploration acreage in India in NELP-V. We have a number of community programmes in all of our Indian headquarters moved to new premises in Gurgaon near Delhi.
operational areas across South Asia.
The impact of our discoveries for Rajasthan is highly significant, not just in terms Hosted trips for analysts and investors and the of revenues, but in terms of job creation and investment in and international media to see some of Cairn's assets around the Barmer area.
It was heartening for the Board to see in India.
the number of children going to school increasing in one location near the Mangala discovery because of the improvements Cairn has made to this school, including installation of solar panels on the school roof to generate electricity.
Supporting numerous educational initiatives in OUR FOCUS IS... Rajasthan has been a key focus as we start to build on the discoveries in the area.
Developing the organisation to manage and support the business 28,240 22,789 30,214 22,057 20,115 20,206 3 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Average Entitlement Production boepd The large discoveries in Rajasthan continue to get bigger and have the 30 potential to produce 150,000 barrels 25 of oil per day.
20 15 10 5 0 00 01 02 03 04 05 Staff I would also like to record the Companys congratulations to The size of the recent Rajasthan discoveries has meant a Sir Bill Gammell, Cairns Chief Executive, on the award of a significant step up in scale for the whole Cairn organisation.
Knighthood for services to industry in Scotland.
The pace of growth has meant integrating new staff and practices into the Company and this has been successfully Outlook achieved.
The Groups focus on Rajasthan will continue as Cairn progresses the main fields from discovery to production.
Cairn has opened a new Indian headquarters at Gurgaon on the outskirts of Delhi to provide improved support for the The challenge in the coming years is to build on the strong Rajasthan project team and to manage the Companys strategic position that Cairn has established in South Asia business interests in India.
Our people are our key asset and whilst capitalising on the opportunity to turn world class the vast majority of the Cairn workforce is indigenous to discoveries in Rajasthan into large scale developments, South Asia.
The new staff development and performance review process The Group is well positioned to meet this challenge.
implemented during 2005 provides an important framework for ensuring that all staff contribute to the success of the Norman Murray Company and continue to develop key competencies as Chairman we grow.
14 March 2006 THE BOARD OF CAIRN IN INDIA Cairn is involved in an ongoing programme in Rajasthan where the Company works with local NGOs, and the District Administration, in providing support to the educational set up in its operational block.
