CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Northern Rocks results for 2005 further reinforced our position as the most cost effective mortgage lender in the UK.
We remained focussed on residential loans, commercial lending and personal credit, raising funds through our four main funding arms retail funding, wholesale funding, securitisation and covered bonds.
Once again, we hit all of our strategic goals and grew both assets and profits to record levels.
I congratulate the executive team on another impressive performance despite strong competition and Dr M W Ridley increased regulation.
As one of the lowest-cost lenders in Europe, we can run our business on some of the tightest interest margins in the world, giving both savers and borrowers excellent value.
Since 2001 Northern Rock has halved its interest margin while improving its cost to income ratio.
As I remarked last year, Northern Rock is a global company in terms of where it raises funds, a national company in terms of where it lends but a regional company in terms of where it mainly employs people.
During 2005 we opened a capacious extension to our working facilities at Northern Rock House in Gosforth, which will be developed further in the coming years, and announced the development of a new office complex at Rainton Bridge in Sunderland.
The first phase is planned to open in 2007.
ECONOMIC AND MARKET BACKGROUND The UK economy looks set to continue growing in 2006.
With the Bank of England Base Rate still low by historical standards, continued low unemployment, well controlled inflation and stable economic growth, the residential mortgage market remains liquid.
House price inflation has eased, but we still see little prospect of a severe correction in house prices, given that mortgages remain comparatively affordable and that credit quality remains good.
We fund our lending from retail deposits, wholesale funding, securitisation and covered bonds.
All four funding arms are working well, and give us access to large international markets so that the supply of affordable funding does not constrain the growth of high quality lending.
3 4 Main sponsors of Newcastle United FC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY a transparent and accountable way.
The results of our Board evaluation and appraisal process are summarised in the Northern Rock's primary social responsibility remains to Corporate Governance statement.
prosper and share that prosperity with shareholders and other stakeholders.
By offering competitive rates, we benefit Sir Ian Gibson will succeed Sir George Russell as the Companys customers.
By achieving sustainable growth, we can create Senior Independent Director on 25 April 2006, at the conclusion employment mainly in our regional base, offer excellent of the Companys AGM, when Sir George will retire from office.
working conditions and contribute to the local economies Sir Ian became a Non-Executive Director of the Company in in which we operate.
I would like to thank Sir George sincerely for 21 years of outstanding service on the Board of Northern We believe that Northern Rock will prosper by recruiting from all Rock plc and Northern Rock Building Society before that.
sections of the community, by adopting flexible employment practices that suit those who want to balance life and work, We intend to hold another Corporate Governance day in by providing good facilities for staff and by minimising harmful London in October 2006, to review Corporate Governance impacts on the environment from our activities.
There is therefore with our major shareholders.
no conflict between creating shareholder value and being socially responsible.
To ensure that we set the highest possible standards TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY The high-level principles set out by the Financial Services of personal and corporate ethics, provide good customer service Authority require that all regulated firms treat their customers and give employees a good working environment, we encourage fairly.
I am pleased to report that the fair treatment of customers assessments by external agencies and support Diversity and is already embedded in the culture of Northern Rock.
This is Work-Life Balance Initiatives.
clearly demonstrated through our open, transparent approach The significant expansion of our Head Office in Gosforth provided and through our various customer pledges which are unique in the region with around 500 new jobs during 2005 and the new the industry as well, of course, as our competitive prices.
office development in Sunderland will create capacity for an However, we will continue to develop our methods to ensure we additional 2,500 new jobs in the region.
comply in full with all key principles.
Consumer confidence is of We also remember those not benefiting directly from our great importance to our business and we remain committed to prosperity.
In 2005, Northern Rock was the second most fair and decent treatment of our customers.
charitable FTSE 100 company, because of its donation of 5% DIVIDEND of pre-tax profits to The Northern Rock Foundation.
In 2005 Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 20.7 pence per this amounted to a remarkable 24.7 million, allowing the share, making a total for the year of 30.1 pence an increase Foundation to continue its empowerment of charities and of 13.6 % on 2004. community causes in the North-East and Cumbria.
I am particularly pleased that in addition to our corporate stance, CONCLUSION our staff continue to take part in voluntary initiatives, We have once again grown the company strongly in 2005. fund-raising, mentoring and secondment programmes, and Our strategy remains to keep costs low, invest in product and that the Foundation now doubly matches staff giving.
process innovation, give our customers transparency and so add low-risk assets to our balance sheet to provide attractive CORPORATE GOVERNANCE returns to our shareholders.
We fund this growth through We continue to comply in full with the Combined Code on retail, wholesale, covered bonds and securitisation.
Corporate Governance except where disclosed in the Corporate Governance Statement.
The Boards procedures and practices I pay tribute to all the employees of Northern Rock who ensure that it identifies and controls risks to the business in contributed to this success in 2005.
