OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder, Positive preliminary results from the Phase I clinical trial of CAT-354.
CATs ambition is to build a pipeline of products that improve the lives The acquisition of two oncology product of patients, and in which we have candidates from Genencor, CAT-3888 a significant economic stake, thereby and CAT-8015, and the establishment generating outstanding returns for of CAT Inc in Palo Alto, California.
GC-1008 commenced a Phase I A number of important achievements clinical trial as a potential treatment have been accomplished during the for Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis IPF.
Since our preliminary results announcement in November 2004, Excellent progress in our major strategic there has been progress with many alliance with AstraZeneca in the field CAT-derived product candidates, we have of inflammatory disease, with six active PAUL NICHOLSON made an excellent start to our strategic Discovery Programmes.
CHAIRMAN alliance with AstraZeneca and won our TM hearing in the High Court against Abbott, Data from clinical trials of LymphoStat-B, which was subsequently settled in HGS-ETR1 and HGS-ETR2 licensed to October 2005.
Additionally, we have Human Genome Sciences, Inc HGSI : recently post year end acquired two GlaxoSmithKline GSK exercised oncology candidates from Genencor options to co-develop and co-promote and a development organisation in the with HGSI.
US to take these programmes forward.
The acquisition of these product Net cash and liquid resources of candidates accelerates the development 175.6 million at 30 September 2005. of our proprietary pipeline and signals our intention to focus our future This years Annual Report adopts the proprietary research and development new format of an Operating and Financial activities in oncology the area where Review OFR, which provides you, our we believe the opportunities are shareholders, with a substantial amount greatest for a company of CATs of additional information about the technologies and capabilities.
business and operations of the Group and our strategy for the future.
It represents Highlights of the last 12 months include: a transition in our reporting, in anticipation of the mandatory OFR which will impact The successful outcome of the High on us in respect of our 2006 financial year.
Court trial with Abbott and ultimate I hope that you find the information settlement of the dispute over useful in understanding our Company, HUMIRA royalties.
the factors which may influence our achievement of our goals and strategy, HUMIRA sales of US$959 million and the risks that we face in trying for the first nine months of 2005. to achieve them.
CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 01 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW You will see that we have identified, for Also for the first time this year, we during that time.
He has also served as the first time, Key Performance Indicators have provided financial information in a member of CATs Scientific Advisory KPIs, which are some of the principal accordance with the requirements of Board SAB.
His scientific contribution, measures our Board uses to assess the the International Financial Reporting his commitment and his belief in the development, performance and position Standards IFRS.
We will be required to Company have been instrumental in of the business.
The KPIs articulate adopt IFRS and International Accounting keeping CAT at the forefront of molecular progress of our development pipeline Standards for the financial year ending display and drug discovery.
He will continue and CATs financial strength.
The internal 30 September 2006 onwards see page to be a member of CATs SAB and act measures relating to the development 99 to 108 for detail.
as a scientific advisor to the Company.
of our capabilities, our technologies, Professor Uwe Bicker has served two our environment, our people and our I am grateful to everyone who has three-year terms on CATs Board and organisation support the achievement contributed to CAT during the year.
has contributed substantially to CATs of our pipeline goals and ultimately the I welcome in particular two Directors to continuing transition.
We are delighted returns for shareholders.
As you consider the Board.
Following our Annual General to note that the University of Heidelberg our KPIs, it is important to understand Meeting AGM in February, Diane Mellett, has recently conferred upon him its highest that the nature of our business and the General Counsel at CAT, joined the Board honour, electing him to the honourary industry in which it operates make it of Directors as an Executive Director.
position of Senator in recognition of difficult to predict exactly the outcome Diane joined CAT in October 1997 as his active work for the benefit of this and impact of our business activities.
Vice President Legal Affairs and Company prestigious university.
We will as we have always done Secretary.
She is an English lawyer and however, attempt to report our progress a US attorney admitted to the Illinois Bar, I would like to acknowledge the and the next step s in each significant and has previously worked in private contributions to the business from CATs area: we have tried to give you as much practice.
In September, we appointed collaborators AstraZeneca, Genzyme forward-looking information as we believe Dr John Brown as a new Non-Executive and Zenyth formerly Amrad with we are able.
We have also detailed some Director.
John has held a number of whom we have formed effective and of the key risks to which we believe positions within our sector, most recently productive relationships, and also from our business is exposed, together with as Chief Executive of Acambis plc.
In addition, I would like to a commentary on how those risks are has widespread commercial, financial thank CATs SAB, which continues to play being managed.
You should, however, and scientific experience within the an important role in guiding the scientific bear in mind that such forward-looking biopharmaceutical industry and is already direction of our Company, and my information, whilst having been given in making a significant contribution to colleagues on the Board.
And last, good faith, cannot be objectively verified.
the Board and also the Audit and but by no means least, I would like to Remuneration Committees.
thank the staff, whose dedication and commitment to CAT have delivered I would also like to thank two Nona year of achievement.
Executive Directors who will not be seeking re-election at the Companys Paul Nicholson Annual General Meeting in February Chairman 2006.
Professor Sir Aaron Klug has been a Director of CAT since its formation If you would like to contact Paul, in 1990, and has made a significant and please e-mail him directly at valuable contribution to the Company chairman@cambridgeantibody.
com 02 CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
