Chairmans statement The Group has performed strongly in 2005, despite a This strategy has allowed the Group's buy-to-let business more difficult trading environment, producing growth to move forward on a broad front, without compromising in profits and loan assets and further strengthening lending standards, at a time when many lenders have our franchise in our key lending market.
seen a reduction in volumes because of lower levels of market activity generally and provides a strong base for Excluding the credit to profit and loss account for further development in the future.
goodwill, operating profit increased by 10.5% to 72.7 million 2004: 65.8 million note 8.
Profit The case for investing in residential property remains before tax increased by 8.2% to 76.8 million for the sound, as uncertainty in the general housing market has year, compared with 71.0 million for the previous been beneficial to the private rented sector in a number year.
Earnings per share increased by 11.0% to 53.3p of respects.
Survey data confirms the strength of tenant from 48.0p.
demand for private rented property.
This has allowed landlords to improve rents, which in turn has resulted in The Board has declared an increased final dividend of an increase in yields.
At the same time, competition for 7.4p per share which, when added to the interim dividend property has reduced, providing landlords with the of 5.2p paid on 29 July, gives a total dividend of 12.6p per opportunity to secure good deals on new purchases, share for the year, an increase of 31.3% over last year.
This is consistent with the policy set out in our interim report, to accelerate payments towards a market level of Survey evidence continues to suggest that landlords are dividend cover.
Subject to approval at the Annual General taking a long-term view of their investments, rather than Meeting on 9 February 2006, the dividend will be paid seeking to crystallise accrued gains.
In our own buy-to-let on 13 February 2006, by reference to a record date of portfolio, we have seen little evidence of increased selling 13 January 2006. activity.
Indeed, compared to the previous year, redemption rates have fallen.
Overall, the prospects for Business review and strategy the buy-to-let market remain sound and demand for The Groups multi-brand strategy has delivered private rented property is expected to rise, assisted by the well-defined propositions within the buy-to-let market.
record number of students in higher education and the Paragon Mortgages, with its focus on larger scale number of people migrating to the UK.
The eligibility of professional investors, has continued to market to its residential property for Self-Invested Personal Pensions existing customer base and its network of individual SIPPs from 2006 may also have a positive effect on specialist intermediaries.
Product developments and demand and we are well positioned to benefit from any individual service for large scale landlords, who own, activity in this regard through our joint venture with James on average, twelve properties have maintained strong Hay, the UKs leading SIPPs administrator.
customer support, such that repeat applications from existing customers still deliver around 70% of new Capital management business.
The Mortgage Trust brand has been developed The Board reviews, periodically, the appropriate level further over the year.
Its focus on smaller scale private of capital to support its current loan portfolios and to investors, who across the portfolio own, on average, ensure that its business plans can be met.
The Board seven properties, has allowed greater utilisation of credit has regard to a number of factors, including the capital technology, together with cost-effective processing and needed to support planned business generation over the administration.
Of particular note has been the delivery medium term, the risk characteristics of the portfolio of additional intermediary distribution.
and the capital being returned to the Group from organic cash generation.
4 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC As a result of such a review in 2002, the Board decided to Outlook increase dividends progressively ahead of earnings growth The fundamentals of the buy-to-let market remain strong, in order to reduce dividend cover to market level over the with increased rental demand translating into higher medium term.
Since that time, dividends have increased rents which, given more stable property prices should annually at roughly double the rate of earnings growth.
As a consequence, landlords are continuing to take a long-term view of their property Whilst our new business generation targets remain investments and we expect activity levels to improve as stretching, the Groups portfolio continues to generate landlords take advantage of the increased rental demand capital.
We have also reduced the portfolios risk profile by expanding their portfolios.
by our disciplined restructuring of the portfolio from The development of the Paragon Mortgages and unsecured towards secured lending, which is less Mortgage Trust brands will continue, aimed at providing a demanding of the Groups capital.
Consumer loans, as a broad range of products and services to landlords, proportion of the portfolio, have been reducing year on thereby ensuring that the Group is well placed to benefit year, from 36% in 2002 to 13.4% as at 30 September 2005. from the long-term development of this market.
Within this, the unsecured personal loan book has been declining in absolute terms since the product was Staff withdrawn and as loans have redeemed, from The excellent progress we have made during the year 319.9 million at 30 September 2002 to 180.0 million would not have been achieved without the hard work and at 30 September 2005, representing 2.8% of the total dedication of our staff and my fellow directors.
them all for their efforts.
As a result, we announced at the half year that surplus capital was available for distribution to shareholders.
Jonathan P L Perry In addition to increasing the dividend for the year by Chairman 31.3%, almost three times growth in earnings per share, thus accelerating the Groups progress towards the 23 November 2005 objective of achieving a market level of dividend cover within two years, the Company has also repurchased 1,790,000 shares at an average price of 4.64 per share and a total cost of 8.3 million as part of a 20 million repurchase programme.
This programme is ongoing and the Board will keep under review the appropriate cost of capital to support the Groups business activities.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The results for the year ended 30 September 2005 are the last to be prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The Board expects to provide a comparative report to shareholders setting out the impact of the introduction of IFRS on the 2005 results in advance of the 2006 interim results, which will be prepared under IFRS.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 5
