Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 5 Chairmans Statement Review of the Year therefore, optimistic in its expectations for continued future growth in shareholder returns.
Following the excellent results of last year, I am pleased to report that some of the momentum Dividend gained has been maintained in the year to Revenue increased by 15% at the gross level 31 March 2005.
The basic net asset value per during the year.
Net of expenses and taxation, share rose by 17.6% during the year under the increase is reduced to 11%.
Your Board has review, outstripping the FTSE All-Share Index approved the payment of a second interim increase of 11.9%.
This performance is a bonus dividend of 3.4p per ordinary share, in lieu of as I had sounded a note of caution in my last the final, resulting in an increase in dividends annual statement in anticipation of a potential paid for the year of 7.6%.
This dividend will be increase in taxation to fund government paid on 17 June 2005.
The Board are confident spending.
I also commented on the potential for that the Company will continue to maintain its rising inflation in view of approaching full policy of real dividend growth going forward.
Gearing Offer for Securities Trust of Scotland plc STS Actual gearing of the Company was 16% at the Shareholders will be aware that, in March this year-end.
The Boards policy is to allow this year, the Company made an offer for the entire gearing to the level of 25% for investment in issued share capital of STS.
It has recently been companies where there are stock specific announced that the level of support for the offer opportunities.
Therefore, gearing is not an was insufficient at the closing date for the expression of confidence in the performance of Company to progress its proposals.
Therefore, the overall UK stockmarket but rather an the offer has lapsed.
endorsement of the potential for selected stocks.
It is disappointing that the encouragement the Board and its advisers received from investment Bonus Issue of Subscription Shares management houses and other institutions to After the year-end the Company made a make the offer was not ultimately matched in bonus issue of new subscription shares and terms of acceptances.
I am, however, pleased to 18,895,253 subscription shares were issued inform shareholders that the costs to the on the basis of 1 subscription share for every Company of this exercise are minimal, 10 ordinary shares held on 11 May 2005. representing less than 0.1% of shareholders Each subscription share will carry the right to funds.
Your Board also gratefully acknowledges subscribe for one ordinary share at a price of INVESCOs contribution towards costs.
During the course of the offer period, the Companys excellent performance record has Investment Policy come to the attention of many investors, both The Board confirms its intention to invest no institutional and private.
As a result, investor more than 15% of gross assets in other listed awareness has been heightened and it is hoped investment companies including investment that the Companys market rating will benefit trusts.
To date, investment in such companies accordingly.
Outlook Annual General Meeting With the General Election now behind us, the Your attention is drawn to five items of Special concerns I foresaw at this time last year, referred Business to be proposed at the Annual General to above, remain real.
With the prospect of Meeting and Special Resolutions: slower UK growth this year, our Managers defensive positioning of the portfolio will i Issue of New Ordinary Share Capital continue to ensure that your Company is well placed in the coming months.
Good stock Your Board is seeking to renew the selection will be critical in the year ahead.
In authority granted at last years Annual spite of the uncertain outlook, our Manager has General Meeting to issue relevant securities demonstrated ability to identify those of the Company within prescribed limits.
companies able to achieve sustained growth in This will allow the Directors flexibility to earnings and dividends.
Your Board is, issue new shares in a shorter period than 6 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Chairmans Statement continued would otherwise be possible.
Your including the provision by the Company of Directors will not exercise this authority to funds to cover costs incurred in defending issue shares at a price below the prevailing legal proceedings brought against him or net asset value, so that the interests of her, as they are incurred.
A similar existing shareholders are not diluted.
indemnity will be available to the Companys Auditors.
The grant of an ii Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights indemnity for the benefit of Directors will be included in the Companys Articles of Secondly, your Board is seeking renewal of Association as an additional matter in the authority to issue equity securities for relation to which a Director will be entitled cash disapplying pre-emption rights.
This to count in the quorum and vote, authority will allow a limited issue of new notwithstanding his or her material interest shares without having to be offered to in the matter discussed.
The new legislation existing shareholders first, thereby and consequent amendments to the broadening the shareholder base of the Companys Articles of Association are Company.
designed to prevent people from being iii Buy-back of up to 14.99% of Ordinary discouraged from acting as officers of Share Capital companies as a result of the rising number of class actions brought against officers in Thirdly, your Board wishes to renew the their personal capacity.
authority to buy-back up to 14.99% of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
My fellow Directors and I greatly appreciate Acquisitions under this authority will be your continuing support as Shareholders in this subject to the restrictions referred to in the Company.
The Annual General Meeting will be Notice of Annual General Meeting and will held on 22 July 2005 at 2.30 p. m. at INVESCO only be undertaken at prices below the Park, Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire.
I very prevailing net asset value.
No such much look forward to meeting you at that time.
purchases were made during the last financial year, but your Board continues to believe that the buy-back of shares can be a useful facility in maintaining and enhancing shareholder value.
Sir Patrick Sheehy Chairman iv Treasury Shares 14 June 2005 Additionally, your Directors are proposing that shares bought back by your Company either be cancelled or, alternatively, be held in treasury with a view to their resale if appropriate, or cancellation.
The holding of treasury shares is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital and any reissue of them will only take place on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
v Amendment of Articles of Association Finally, your Board is proposing to amend the Companys Articles of Association.
These amendments will take account of new legislation which entitles companies to widen the scope of the indemnity available to an individual Director in respect of liabilities incurred to third parties in the course of discharging his or her duties,
