Chairmans statement 2005 was a good year for Prudentials businesses around the world.
Each of our 2005 was a operations made strong progress, and finished the year well positioned to take good year for advantage of the opportunities for profitable growth in 2006 and beyond.
At a Group level, total insurance sales for the year to 31 December Prudentials 2005 rose 15 per cent to 2,146 million: operating profit on a European Embedded Value EEV basis increased 33 per cent to 1,712 million: operating profit under the International Financial businesses Reporting Standards IFRS basis increased 36 per cent to 957 million.
The full year dividend per share has increased three per cent to 16.32 pence per share.
around the world During the year, we welcomed Mark Tucker back to Prudential, as Group Chief Executive.
Mark previously worked in most of the Groups businesses over nearly 20 years, and this broad knowledge, combined with his drive and energy, have brought greater clarity and confidence about the Groups longer-term plans and capital management programme, enabling us to map out the steps that we need to take to deliver long-term value to shareholders.
In the UK, where we are already a leading life and pensions company, we plan to extract significantly more value from the market as a whole by taking a more collaborative approach between our individual businesses.
The decision to return Egg to full ownership within the Group has been an important step towards this, and gives us a strong base from which to pursue our ambition to build a broader retail financial services presence.
In the United States, we see enormous potential to capitalise on the emerging needs of the baby boomer generation which is starting to move into retirement, using our market-leading position in variable annuities, and our strengths in IT, product innovation and relationship-based distribution.
Sir David Clementi 2 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 In Asia, the drivers of growth are as compelling as ever, and we HM Treasury.
Following the Annual General Meeting, Rob Rowley expect to continue to expand aggressively in the region over the will step down from the Board and I would like to thank him for his coming years, while still attaining our goal to go cash positive significant contribution since he joined in 1999. during 2006.
The Groups Restricted Share Plan ends this year.
At the Annual Turning to our asset management businesses, we see these as General Meeting we will put forward new long-term incentive significant and increasing contributors to the overall Group.
arrangements for executive directors, which will replace the Group Not only do they underpin the performance of our traditional Restricted Share Plan and the current business unit incentive insurance products, they also provide an attractive enhancement schemes.
Recruiting and retaining the highest calibre executives is to our range of products enabling us to accommodate the needs of course crucial to our long-term success.
The new arrangements of the vast bulk of retail investors.
Just as importantly, asset we have developed aim to be competitive within the broad management provides a powerful source of  international marketplace in which we operate, and we hope profits for the Group.
that shareholders will support them.
Across the Group, we continue to share knowledge and skills, and One further matter on which I must comment is the proposal we are increasingly looking at resources such as IT on a global basis.
received recently from Aviva that we should combine our two We see considerable scope for further collaboration of this kind businesses.
Your Board did not consider that the proposal made in future.
was in the best interests of Prudentials shareholders, and it was subsequently withdrawn by Aviva.
Your Board believes we are An integral part of our strategy is to ensure we build trusting, longwell placed: we have the business opportunities: the management term relationships with consumers and, as part of this, we continue depth: and the capital strength to continue to expand profitably to support the communities in which we operate through a range our operations around the world and to generate further growth in of financial education initiatives.
Details of our programme are the value of your Company.
As always, the experience and talents given in the Corporate Responsibility section of this Report.
of all our staff will be critical to our success, and I would like to During the year, we made a number of Board changes.
In addition thank them for their continued support and commitment.
to Mark Tuckers appointment as Group Chief Executive in May, we also appointed Nick Prettejohn as Chief Executive of Prudential UK, effective from January this year, following the departure of Mark Wood in October.
Keki Dadiseth was appointed as a non-executive director in April last year.
He brings to the Board considerable international experience, particularly of Asian markets.
Sir David Clementi Chairman We announced in April of this year that Lord Turnbull would join our Board following the Annual General Meeting in May.
He was the Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service from 2002 to 2005, prior to which he was Permanent Secretary at 3 per cent Full year dividend per share up by three per cent to 16.32 pence Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 3
