com Report and accounts 2005 Page 2 Chairmans statement Mark Powell Chairman I have great pleasure in presenting our results At 2 March 2006, total funds under management for the year ended 31 December 2005, the first reached 10 billion.
in respect of which our accounts are presented These figures reflect a combination of sound under International Financial Reporting investment performance and an increased focus on Standards.
2005 has proved to be a year of marketing generally and marketing to financial considerable growth in UK and overseas stock intermediaries in particular.
This has provided the backdrop for an increase in the rates of organic growth We have continued to develop and enhance our within Rathbones and has helped us to make investment processes which are concerned with real progress.
asset allocation as well as stock selection.
Features of the year have been the increasing use Profits before tax for the year to 31 December of collective investments, the greater use of funds 2005, before one-off professional advisory costs of of alternative assets and the use of structured 1.4m incurred in relation to an approach to products.
Rensburg plc and profits of 2.3m arising from a part disposal of, and dividends from, your The FTSE 100 Index has now risen by over 75% Companys investment in London Stock Exchange since its low point in 2003 and during 2005 there plc LSE, were 34.4 million compared with was clear evidence of increased volatility in equity 26.8 million in 2004 an increase of 28.4%.
Yields on Government stocks have fallen, Total profits before tax were 35.3 million a trend which has been exacerbated by the desire compared with 28.5 million for 2004, an increase of pension funds to match liabilities with their of 23.9%.
These market conditions underline the value to private investors, in Reported earnings per share have risen by 22.7% particular, of an investment management service to 60.13p, compared to 48.99p in 2004. which embraces carefully considered and balanced Excluding the Rensburg-related costs and LSEinvestment processes.
related profits, earnings per share have risen from 45.44p to 59.50p, an increase of 30.9%.
Our strategic ambitions continue to centre on the provision of investment management services to It is recommended that the final dividend be private investors and trustees, on the management increased to 18.5p, making a total of 30.0p for of a range of unit trusts and on the provision of the year, an increase of 9.1% over the total in trust and tax services in the UK and offshore.
We seek to establish ourselves as the leading During the year the FTSE 100 Index rose by independent UK provider of discretionary 16.7% and the FTSE APCIMS Balanced Index, investment management services to private which more closely reflects the spread of investors and to achieve this by a combination of investments held by our clients, rose by 14.9%.
organic growth and selective acquisition.
As previously announced, funds under 2005 has seen progress in all these three aspects management in Rathbones as a whole rose by of our business.
Profits from Rathbone Investment 23.4% to 9.5 billion at the year end.
Particularly Management, which provides segregated noteworthy is the achievement of Rathbone Unit investment management and is an authorised bank Trust Management where funds under under the Financial Services and Markets Act, management over the year rose by 46.5% to 1.2 have grown by 23.4% and in Rathbone Unit Trust billion.
The value of segregated portfolios under Management they have grown by 182.4%.
While management within Rathbone Investment both of these areas have benefited from rising and Management rose by 20.6% to 8.3 billion.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 3 active stock markets, they have also shown their 2005 saw two important changes in the continuing ability to attract and retain client funds composition of our Board.
In January, Peter under management.
Pearson Lund, who heads up Rathbone Unit Trust Management, was appointed to the Board of The trust division benefits less from increasing Rathbone Brothers Plc.
Peter first joined asset valuations but has made further progress.
Rathbones in 1999, following our decision to reThe Jersey trust company continues to perform brand and grow our unit trust activities.
Under his very well and we expect to move from our three leadership, the value of unit trust funds under existing locations in Jersey into a new purposemanagement has risen from under 100 million to built office in St Helier in September 2006.
This remarkable growth has Geneva office is attracting an encouraging flow of resulted from the carefully managed combination new clients and in the UK we continue to focus on of a distinguished investment performance record providing trust, tax planning and tax compliance and energetic and innovative marketing.
services of the very highest quality from our offices in London, Liverpool and Winchester.
At the end of the year, Paul Egerton-Vernon stepped down from the Board but we are delighted For many years Rathbones has sought to that he is to remain chairman of Rathbone Trust supplement organic growth by selective Company Jersey and devote a substantial amount recruitment and acquisition.
This reflects our of his time to client affairs, as well as to the strategic objective of becoming the leading development of our international trust business.
independent provider of discretionary investment Paul originally joined the Board in 2001, following management services for private investors and the acquisition of Nigel Harris & Partners.
Our belief is that this sector of He has contributed greatly to the Board during the investment management market will this time, particularly in the areas where his consolidate and that a small number of nationally considerable legal and international experience has respected organisations will increasingly gain been invaluable.
Since the year-end we have announced the acquisition, subject to regulatory Subsequent to the end of the year we have approvals, of Dexias UK investment management appointed Oliver Corbett, group finance director and private banking business.
We have also been of SVB Holdings PLC, and Mark Robertshaw of able to attract five experienced investment The Morgan Crucible Company plc, who is managers to join us in London from other currently chief operating officer and chief financial investment management houses.
These officer, and will become chief executive later this developments are consistent with our view that year, to our Board as additional independent nonacquisitions and recruitments should involve executives.
Both bring with them wide ranging people joining us who share our views about experience in the financial sector and elsewhere, discretionary investment management and that as well as keen intellects.
We are greatly looking such developments should be earnings-enhancing forward to their participation in our affairs.
We look forward The achievement made in Rathbones during 2005 to our new colleagues joining us once the legal has only been possible because of the unremitting formalities connected with the acquisition are commitment, hard work and goodwill of all our complete.
staff, to whom we owe a great debt of gratitude.
We welcome the Governments clarification of the These are record results for Rathbones.
We are asset classes that will be able to be held in selfbusy and face the future in all three of our invested personal pension plans SIPPs.
Rathbones activities with enthusiasm and confidence.
has been a SIPP provider since 1993 and we already manage 300 million of SIPP funds for clients.
During 2005, we have been preparing for the implementation of the new pensions simplification regulation and regard the management of SIPP accounts as an area of Mark Powell particular growth potential for us.
