6 Chairmans Statement In the year to 31 March 2005, your Companys net asset In addition, we have maintained a level of liquidity within value per share increased by 14.2%, from 621.8p to the portfolio.
At the year end, our holdings in government 710.2p and its net worth by some 134 million.
Over the securities and money market funds amounted to 10%, same period, the Morgan Stanley Capital International compared with 5% at 31 March 2004.
Against our $150 Index in Sterling, the FTSE All-Share Index and the million loan, we have retained net cash amounting to Investment Trust Net Assets Index increased by 5.7%, some 63 million.
We were therefore able to At the year end, 635 million, or 56.3% of the out-perform these three indices in conditions which were portfolio, was held directly in quoted investments, significantly more difficult than in the previous year, compared with 50.8% at the previous year end.
Some when your Companys net asset value per share increased 390 million, or nearly two thirds, of this amount is by 44.5%.
managed by the external investment managers who are RITCPs net asset value per share at 20 May, the listed on page 17 of this report.
The balance of 245 latest available date, was 704.4p.
We have added to the geographical diversity of the portfolio over the last two years, increasing our asset ASSET ALLOCATION allocation to Japan and the Far Eastern markets.
We have Set out below is our asset allocation at the year end.
also continued to diversify the currency exposure away % of % of from the US Dollar and the Euro to include the currencies Portfolio at Portfolio at 31 March 31 March of the leading Asian economies.
2005 2004 In terms of the geographical exposure, the increase in Europe from 15.4% to 22.8% has been partly Quoted investments 56.3 50.8 attributable to increased holdings in European Government securities and government bonds.
The halving of our exposure to Japan money market funds 10.0 4.8 from 13% to 7.8% has mainly come about as a result of Hedge funds 6.6 10.0 the sale of our holding in Shinsei Bank.
Long equity funds 6.2 4.8 Unquoted investments 12.3 21.6 Private equity partnerships 6.3 5.6 UNQUOTED PORTFOLIO Property 2.3 2.4 The sale of the Shinsei holding was the largest of a number of successful realisations that we completed 100.0 100.0 during the year under review.
We realised a profit of 68 million, or 3.3 times our original cost, over the life of the The principal change over the year has been the decrease investment.
Other profitable realisations included the sale in the unquoted investments section of the portfolio, as a of a leading multiplex cinema company, Cine-UK, in result of the successful realisation of a number of our October 2004 at 3.4 times the original cost, giving a total holdings, including the investment in Shinsei Bank.
At the year end, we increased the addition, the quoted investments category has shown valuation of our holding in Power Measurement, a North some increase, while the rise in the level of liquidity to American electronics company, to 29.1 million, or 4 10% reflects our more cautious stance.
times its original cost, following the announcement of the A more detailed analysis of your Companys portfolio sale of the company.
In March 2005, Seminis, a global and currency exposure can be found on pages 4 and 5. seed producer, was sold to realise 13.3 million, or 3.2 times our original cost and a profit of 9 million.
QUOTED PORTFOLIO In addition, during the first half of the year, two of In view of the uncertainties prevailing in world markets, our unquoted investments, PayPoint, an electronics we have continued to diversify the portfolio into specific payments systems business, and Blueheath, a web-based areas and away from general exposure to markets.
grocery wholesale business were successfully floated.
Particularly during the early part of the year, we were Our exposure to unquoted investments and private investors in commodity and energy stocks, which equity partnerships is set out on pages 4 and 5.
In total, benefited from Chinas growth and the pressures for a these amounted to 209.9 million, or 18.6% of the decline in the US Dollar.
portfolio at the year end.
Of this, 138.5 million, or 12.3%, represents investments made directly by our RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement 7 management and 71.4 million, or 6.3%, is invested in Meanwhile, equity valuations on conventional criteria limited partnerships managed by third parties.
remain reasonable and the opportunities for stock selection and special situations are there to find.
Nevertheless, we have sought to reduce the level of risk DIVIDEND by taking profits, increasing liquidity and by continuing We are proposing to pay a dividend of 3.1p per share on to diversify the portfolio.
This has been achieved not only 20 July 2005 to shareholders on the register at 17 June by a widely spread, global equity portfolio, but also 2005, the same level of dividend as last year.
The focus of through the diversification of currency exposure and a your Company is to achieve capital growth rather than broad allocation over a number of asset classes, both increases in dividend income.
Further diversification is achieved by our policy of allocating part of the portfolio to OUTLOOK exceptional managers, in order to give shareholders access The outlook for world markets is an unusually complex to the best external talent available.
In 2003 and 2004 stock market values increased, of the portfolio is managed in this way.
reflecting economic growth, significant increases in Unquestionably, conditions for investing have become corporate earnings and low levels of inflation.
Today more difficult, as levels of risk and uncertainty have there is, on the one hand, some evidence of accelerating increased in recent months.
We shall continue to pursue inflation but, on the other, there are some concerns about new investment ideas and themes and to seek outstanding a slowdown in economic activity which could affect investment managers to improve and diversify your corporate profitability.
Conventional wisdom tells us that Companys portfolio.
This policy has served shareholders the USAs massive trade deficit, unless moderated, will well in the past and we believe that, in these uncertain sooner or later lead to monetary crisis.
The problem is a times, it is the most likely way of doing so in the future.
circular one, as the reduction in consumption required to solve it would depress the global economy at a time when increasing levels of unemployment and lack of growth are already evident, particularly in Europe.
It is politically expedient, therefore, for the USA and the Far Eastern Rothschild surplus countries to allow these imbalances to continue 26 May 2005 and to hope that the problems will somehow go away.
We are living in uncharted waters and none of us can forecast the outcome with accuracy, particularly as regards timing.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
