Royal & SunAlliance 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chairmans statement In 2003 we set out on a journey to run a general insurance business that delivers sustainable profitable performance.
I am pleased to report continued excellent progress in the training and development of our people, linked to detailed delivery of our detailed plans to improve the performance objective setting and rigorous performance assessment.
of your Company on a continuing and sustainable basis.
Where necessary to meet resource gaps or accelerate the Improvements include: achievement of required performance standards, we make use of active external recruitment.
It is against the above A significant increase in year to year Group operating profit philosophies of detailed objective setting and measured at 698m, including net written premium growth of 6%, management performance that we have developed a new Benefits in costs and efficiencies with a combined operating long term incentive plan for approval at the Annual General ratio for the Core Group of 94.1% compared to prior year 96.1%, Meeting.
It is strongly performance and results orientated and supports the key outcomes that are beneficial to all shareholders.
Further strengthening of our capital position due to internal initiatives and improved results, We have resolved the majority of our substantive strategic issues with the exception of the US.
Here, our approach has been to Continuing progress in derisking our US business and reducing stabilise the business and work through the portfolio to reduce our exposures.
our exposures, whilst simultaneously exploring opportunities to These results were achieved in a year of unprecedented achieve an acceptable exit.
This outcome requires us to resolve natural disasters.
Although the financial cost for the insurance a number of highly complex issues on which we are making good industry have been substantial, it is such years that remind us headway, in an area which will remain difficult to predict.
of the social and economic benefits that insurance brings to We continue to strengthen our capital position in order to society.
Responding rapidly is, however, as important as meeting facilitate growth and meet any changing regulatory requirements.
Our customers need to get their businesses and Improved profit performance is of course helpful as are the actions homes back to normal as quickly as possible.
In the UK, our loss we have taken to restructure the nature of assets and liabilities adjusters and claims handlers were the first on the scene after to optimise our capital position.
The sale of our Rothschilds the Carlisle floods: in Canada we acted immediately to provide holding helped to diversify our equity exposures, whilst important emergency living expenses after storms swept Alberta: and after initiatives in the area of pension liabilities help address that the January storms in Scandinavia we worked around the clock to specific issue and have further strengthened the balance sheet.
In what has been clearly a challenging year for the industry, our results confirm that we continue to In the UK the scale and finance of future pension liabilities is make good progress.
Over the last two years we have created a a national issue and related to the whole economy and wider strong business foundation that enables us to deliver a sustainable society.
Independent of progress at national level, it is essential and profitable future.
We remain focused on driving performance to work on industry and company solutions.
After a long period forward in all areas.
of consultation with staff and unions we obtained an agreement, supported by an overwhelming majority of staff, on a revised Although the delivery of our investment in the operational arrangement which reduced the current deficit via accelerated improvement programme remains important, the key to our payments by the Company, and reduced the scale of future success remains the improved standards of management liabilities by agreement to modify the scope of future benefits.
We continue to invest in the formal We believe that this is an innovative and market leading Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 5 John Napier Chairman initiative.
As a consequence our pension deficit has been At the beginning of 2005 the Chief Executive and his team set reduced by 266m gross of tax, 86m from accelerated the following priority areas: funding and 180m from agreed changes in future benefits.
To stabilise and restructure the US, An important part of our approach continues to be to develop Target profitable growth, an open and constructive relationship with all regulatory agencies.
This is particularly important given the pace of change and Sustain strong results, complexity of the legislative and regulatory environment both Deliver our operational improvement programme, at a UK and European level.
Where country of registration, regulatory interpretation and regulatory liability are intertwined, To embed our management performance culture.
there is scope for significant competitive and commercial The progress the management team has made on the Groups disadvantage unless there is an active and adequate company issues sees us in a much stronger position at the end of 2005. and industry dialogue with regulators.
We continue to concentrate on making R&SA, one of the worlds More specifically, the industry is dealing with a number of oldest insurance companies, an industry leader in each of our issues, including a new solvency regime, the FSAs Treating chosen markets.
This emphasis brings new and exciting challenges Customers Fairly initiative and the broader issues of financial and we proceed from a strong foundation and we are confident exclusion.
In all these areas we continue to take an active role.
of our prospects to deliver sustainable profitable performance.
On European regulation and issues, our input is more directly to Against this background, the directors have recommended Government, whilst on Treating Customers Fairly we have clear a final dividend of 3.05p per share, which if approved will be principles under which we conduct our business.
On matters due for payment on 2 June 2006 to holders of ordinary shares of financial exclusion we are a leading provider of insurance on the Register at close of business on 17 March 2006.
This for social housing schemes helping many families who would payment, together with an interim dividend of 1.69p per share, otherwise find it difficult to find acceptable terms of protection.
will make a total dividend for the year of 4.74p per share, an We continue to lobby for greater priority on this issue within the increase of 2.8% on prior year.
This is consistent with our broader financial exclusion agenda.
dividend policy of maintaining the dividend in real terms.
Following an active period of restructuring and reshaping your Finally, I would like to thank all staff for their efforts and responses Board, we have made a further appointment of an additional to date.
In particular I would like to note the contribution and executive director, namely Bridget McIntyre, who is responsible support of the Board and the all round performance of the for our UK business.
The Board has settled well and works Executive Team ably lead by Andy Haste.
It is extremely active with the non-executive directors averaging 23 meetings per year, including formal Boards and key committees.
In addition, the Board meets as required on single issue meetings to facilitate effective decision making on complex issues.
Further details of the approach of the Board are given in the Corporate Governance section of the Report & Accounts.
