CHAIRMANS STATEMENT highlights The increasing wealth of large The outlook for corporate profits A year of continued global developing countries will be a remains encouraging.
economic growth and strong major factor in markets for a growth in company profits and number of years to come.
Chairmans Statement Scottish Mortgage recorded another year of growth.
Net asset value per share rose by 9.6% and the share price by 9.2% compared to an 8.6% increase in the benchmark.
This out-performance benefited from good stock selection and gearing.
Global economic growth continued and companies reported strong growth in profits and dividends.
The outlook for global equity investors for the current year remains encouraging.
Confidence in Asian and Emerging markets tax, repayment of which, from the Italian concentrate on the overall result rather than faltered in the first half due to concerns authorities, is now up to 10 years overdue.
If the focus is about the pace of Chinese growth.
We placed on the various geographical indices, To enhance the appeal of the Company to increased our positions in these markets stock selection can be constrained and individual shareholders, the Board plans to which turned out to be among the stronger performance can suffer.
The Managers are make two roughly equal dividend payments performers in the second half.
Investments expected to add value through distinctive in the current year, thus giving shareholders in Asia Pacific and other Emerging markets, and committed global stock selection.
This is likely to be excluding Japan, now account for 18% of are currently 101 equity holdings compared achieved by making a higher interim but a the equity content.
We remain convinced to 120 last year, 129 the year before that lower final payment in 2005 6.
I do that the growth of these developing and 163 five years ago.
expect, however, that we will recommend a countries will be the major global economic further real increase in the total dividend, as We do not favour adopting the Manager of factor in markets for a number of years to has been the case for the past 23 years.
Manager, or Fund of Funds, approach.
While rising inflation and the method has become fashionable within the likelihood of higher interest rates are also investment trust sector recently but we see a factors to consider, we expect to see Portfolio Management a Global danger of performance dilution and a loss sustained demand continuing to fuel overall Strategy of global perspective with this model, just as growth.
Shares are chosen on a long term there is in taking an indexed approach.
perspective to find individual companies, no Transparency for shareholders is reduced Dividend and Earnings matter where they are listed, which will while accountability and oversight is more The Board is recommending a final dividend provide our shareholders with good long complex and challenging.
of 5.05p, making a proposed total of term returns, while still taking into account 7.35p for the year.
This 5.0% increase is the requirement to produce income as well well ahead of UK inflation at 3.2% as as capital appreciation.
As in previous Balance Sheet measured by the Retail Price Index.
Earnings years, a table showing the geographical In September 2004, Scottish Mortgage per share decreased by 8.4% to 7.37p but attribution of performance is provided see became the first investment trust to be given still cover the dividend.
In future years we will not include an Aaa Issuer Rating by Moodys and it is by a special dividend received from this table as it can give an unrepresentative the only Aaa rated company in the FTSE Microsoft amounting to 1.2 million, but this picture of how the portfolio is actually being All-Share Index.
Moodys ratings are benefit was offset by the prudent write off of run and what we are trying to achieve.
opinions of the ability of businesses to 1 million of recoverable Italian withholding We have a global perspective and we honour senior unsecured financial Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
6 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT obligations and contracts.
In its report, While the Board has buyback powers augurs well for the global economy as a Moodys highlighted the Boards sensitivity which have been used extensively in the whole.
to borrowing levels, the modest level of past, they were exercised on only one gearing, the straightforward capital structure, occasion last year.
We are asking for AGM the long record of the Trust and the length of renewal of these powers and will continue I hope that you will be able to attend the experience of the Managers in the equity to use them as appropriate opportunities Annual General Meeting which will be held market.
on Thursday, 30 June in Edinburgh as The Board has stressed to the Managers the During the year Scottish Mortgage made use detailed on page 50.
Shareholder approval importance of working to raise awareness of of its borrowings to finance equity holdings is being sought at the meeting to increase Scottish Mortgage amongst existing and and remains geared into the market.
This has the ceiling on the Chairmans and Directors potential investors, particularly in the proved beneficial over the period.
Total fees are close to the current intermediary and private investor market.
ceilings and consequently there is little scope I consider that the Company offers long term for increase in future years.
Details of the Discount, Buybacks and Marketing equity investors a very appealing proposed Resolutions are shown on During the period, it has been disappointing proposition.
It has: page 29. that despite good investment performance the discount between your Companys low running costs, The Managers will make a short share price and the underlying asset value a strong global focus, presentation at the meeting and there will be has not narrowed, but I would ask you to an opportunity to ask questions.
a long term perspective, note two points: experienced and proven Managers.
When the debentures are priced at their market value, which is higher than the Outlook cost of their eventual redemption, the We remain optimistic for the current year.
discount is significantly lower at 15.6% While the pace of profits growth may slow, as opposed to 20.4% at par as at the Managers are continuing to identify Sir Donald MacKay 31 March 2005. companies which they consider are capable 5 May 2005 2.
Scottish Mortgages discount has often of producing sustained long term growth.
been less volatile than those of its larger The fact that many large developing peers in the past.
countries are becoming significantly richer SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7
