4 Chairmans Statement We have a sound foundation for long term growth based on the principles of good stock selection, flexibility within our wide investment policies and not being tied to any benchmark.
our portfolio as our cautious approach and investment in fixed Results income and cash meant we were not fully exposed to equity I am pleased to report an increase, over the year, in our net markets.
However, as mentioned, we have made some changes, assets from 25.80 to 31.18 per share.
Earnings rose to a and the performance that is beginning to flow through gives us record 69.2p per share, an increase of 4.6%.
confidence in the efficacy of our revised approach.
We believe The directors recommend payment of a final dividend of that we have a sound foundation for long term growth based on 33.0 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim the principles of good stock selection, flexibility within our dividend of 31.5 pence paid in March, makes a total dividend of wide investment policies and not being tied to any index or 64.5 pence, an increase of 1.5 pence.
consecutive year of dividend increases.
At the last year end, our discount to net assets stood at 17.2% and it narrowed to 16.0% at 31 July 2005.
Performance and Outlook Over the last year we have seen some very creditable and Total Expense Ratio TER encouraging performance in many sectors of the portfolio We maintain our prudent approach to costs, but, as explained which, after a thorough review, we have reorganised on to a last year, we also continue to invest in our systems and staff.
On the next pages, the Chief Executive, Alan This has resulted in an increase in total expenses although the Harden, explains in more detail the way this has been done and total expense ratio for the year to 31 July 2005 remains how the introduction of a new Asset, Liability and Income unchanged at 0.33%.
Committee has strengthened the asset allocation and investment process.
Detail of individual performance in the The Company has a staff and cost sharing arrangement with The various sectors is explained in the portfolio review.
Alliance Trust PLC Group that benefits both companies and We believe that the work which has been done in reorganising without which the Company would not be able to maintain its the portfolio clarifies the responsibilities allocated to each very low expense ratio.
investment manager and, from the Companys point of view, gives clearer accountability.
Alliance Trust Savings In view of this optimistic tone, the question does arise as to The Companys investment in Alliance Trust Savings Limited why the performance of the portfolio against that of our ATS, which is shared with the Alliance Trust, continues to be investment trust peer group shows us lagging.
an appropriate use of the Companys capital.
Longer life The answer in part to this apparent conundrum is that, unlike expectancy makes it inevitable that the market for pension and many other investment trusts, we have had no material gearing.
investment products will both increase and segment.
We When markets are poor, this tends to work in our favour, but support the investment which is being made by ATS, particularly the converse is true when markets improve.
In addition, the in technology, and believe this will make it more competitive in strong upward movement in markets was not fully reflected in this market.
