4 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement Our geographic diversity is deliver good performance I am pleased to report KwonPing has served for more another strong performance than nine years on the Board for Standard Chartered.
and I would like to thank him for the valuable contribution he profit before taxation, has made during this including the post-acquisition important period for the Group.
results for SC First Bank formerly Korea First Bank, Economic outlook is up 19 per cent to Recent years have witnessed $2,681 million.
Our regions have benefited Income is up 27 per cent, from this, enjoying strong up 14 per cent on an growth.
Yet what is more underlying basis, excluding encouraging is that an SC First Bank.
increasing number of countries across Asia, Africa and Strong earnings per share the Middle East are taking EPS growth, with normalised advantage of this favourable EPS up 23 per cent.
environment to push through As a result of this strong structural reform.
This is performance, the Board is important if these countries are recommending an annual to achieve faster, sustainable dividend of 64.0 cents.
growth and be able to weather any future global slowdown.
The underlying business is doing well and the strategic In the Middle East, there is greater investment in investments made in recent infrastructure aimed at years are delivering results.
The progress with Across Asia, moves towards SC First Bank in Korea deepening domestic financial is especially pleasing.
markets are key to the drivers Governance of economic growth, shifting Governance across the from a reliance on exports Group is robust.
In addition to domestic demand.
to the established Committees Exports are strong in Hong of the Board we now have The underlying business Kong and South Korea, but a Corporate Responsibility it is the sustained turn-around and Community Committee, is doing well and the in consumer spending that focused on the environment, is key to their current growth.
diversity and inclusion, As a result, in general, Asian strategic investments community and social growth rates are expected to investment.
Activities in the remain well above those of area of corporate responsibility made in recent years OECD countries.
have measurable, positive commercial impacts and are We are witnessing, at first are delivering results.
very much part of the fabric hand, cyclical strength and of the Bank.
Non-Executive Director Strategic progress Mr Ho KwonPing has played Such strong and sustainable an important part in the growth enhances our existing governance of the Group and franchise and allows us to he will retire from the Board at take full advantage of the the conclusion of this years acquisitions we have made Annual General Meeting.
com 5 helping us to In Thailand, where we This is the first bank to be are focused on creating Highlights of 2005 have been present for over granted a national licence shareholder value.
since 1996 and in February a century, we took the Standard Chartered is opportunity in 1999 to invest 2006 it opened its first branch.
ideally placed to maximise in 75 per cent of Nakornthon $2,681m the existing and future Such a strategic investment is Bank.
In 2005 we bought opportunities presented Profit before taxation just one part of our approach the remaining 25 per cent by our markets.
In addition to taking a leading position stake.
Standard Chartered to the growth presented by in this emerging economic Bank Thai pcl, as it is now major Asian markets, many giant.
Our organic operations known, is well positioned as $6,861m of our businesses in the continue to prosper.
Our a locally incorporated bank Income Middle East, South Asia and long experience of China with international strengths Africa are developing rapidly.
has allowed us to focus on and standards.
the opportunities offered by Our management teams, rapid growth, including those Similarly, we have had a at country and at Group 153.7cents long presence in Indonesia, in the Pearl River Delta, one level, balance strong local Normalised earnings per share a country with 240 million of the worlds fastest growing and international leadership.
In 2004, with our This ensures international consortium partner PT Astra, accounts for about one-third standards are met, local we took a controlling stake of Chinas exports.
practices are respected 18.0% and market opportunities are in Bank Permata.
Permata is Normalised return on ordinary Finally, South Korea, which is leveraged.
We offer the ability a consumer bank with more shareholders equity Asias third largest economy to invest in growth, mainly than one million customers, with a population of 47 in Asia, with good regulation.
The combination of Summary huge progress following our 64.0 cents Permata and our own branch Standard Chartereds 2005 acquisition of Korea First Bank Dividend per share offers us great access to this results demonstrate another and SC First Bank, as it is growing market.
We now called, is well positioned are in markets with economic for Koreas future economic In India, we bought Grindlays conditions that present us in 2000 and this strategic development.
with opportunities to build acquisition changed the nature In all our markets we have on our performance track of our presence in that market.
It is particularly We are now Indias largest and extensive networks, pleasing to note that SC First international bank and we have which are serving us well Bank, our Korean acquisition, major ambitions.
Already we as the pace of change became EPS accretive in the have over two million Consumer and number of business second half of 2005.
We are Banking customers and 800 top opportunities increase.
seeing the re-investment of corporate relationships.
With the petrodollars, strong economies Our international network economys consistently high all over Asia and, on the whole, is allowing us to benefit from rate of growth we expect to see increasing economic maturity in new trade corridors emerging even more opportunities ahead.
These conditions between our regions.
We are In China, we established our We are in growing markets executing our strategy well presence as the first foreign and our geographic diversity and making good progress.
is helping us to deliver I am confident of the Groups In September 2005, in the good performance.
presence of Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao and UK Prime Well positioned Minister the Rt.
Tony Overall, many current Blair MP, Standard Chartered economic conditions and signed the documents that trends are advantageous allowed us to take a strategic for us.
We are well positioned stake in China Bohai Bank.
and our management teams Bryan Sanderson, CBE Chairman 2 March 2006
