SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 02 I am pleased to report a strong set of results At the year-end, SVG Capital had uncalled Chairmans statement with fully diluted net assets per share commitments of 364.1 million 346 million increasing by 19.6% from 558.2p to 667.8p at 20 March 2006, including a new 5 shareholders funds of 902.4 million over commitment to SVG Diamond II.
New fund commitments Overall, the operating environment for the Permira portfolio companies has improved, with many In line with SVG Capitals principal investment companies successfully growing earnings, and objective of achieving capital appreciation by there have been several material write-ups investing in private equity funds that are during the year.
In addition, the portfolio has managed or advised by Permira, SVG Capital benefited from rising equity markets, which 6 will be making a 2.8 billion 1.9 billion have had a significant impact on the valuation commitment to Permiras next private equity of the quoted portfolio.
fund, Permira IV, which is targeting to raise 8.5 billion 5.9 billion.
The private equity portfolio has been very cash generative, with distributions reaching The Permira Funds, which represent 75% of 1 285.8 million, double the level of 2004, and SVG Capitals portfolio, have been the key 2 well ahead of total calls paid of 89.1 million.
driver in SVG Capitals net asset growth to The exit environment has improved.
In date and this commitment has been made particular, both the debt and equity capital after considerable due-diligence into Permira markets have been favourable, and a and the market opportunity.
Over their significant percentage of these distributions 21 year history, the Permira Funds have were the result of recapitalisations or outperformed industry upper quartile return successful IPOs and subsequent sales of benchmarks, with the most recent funds, quoted holdings.
Permira Europe I, II and III, delivering top decile returns.
Over the longer period, SVG Capitals growth in net assets continues to outperform It is expected that SVG Capitals commitment public markets.
SVG Capital has reported a to Permira IV will be drawn down during the compound growth in net assets per share of funds six year investment period.
Funding will The private equity 8.7% p. a. over the last five years and be provided from cash resources, distributions 13.8% p. a. since listing in 1996, a respective portfolio has been very from SVG Capitals portfolio of investments, a out-performance of 9.7% p. a. and 9.4% p. a. cash generative, with credit facility and an issue of long-term debt.
of the FTSE All-Share capital only.
distributions reaching Cash balances As highlighted above, SVG Capitals portfolio 285.8 million, double The distributions from the portfolio have led has been very cash generative.
In making the to relatively high year-end cash balances of commitment to Permira IV, the Board has the level of 2004, and 205.0 million 23% of net assets.
These reconfirmed its desired level of gearing for well ahead of total calls strong levels of distributions have continued SVG Capital of 15-20% over time.
To support into 2006, with SVG Capital receiving a further its commitment to Permira IV and to maximise paid of 89.1 million.
3 93.1 million of proceeds from portfolio potential shareholder returns, SVG Capital is Nicholas Ferguson, Chairman realisations.
Some of these proceeds have therefore increasing its credit facility from been used to meet calls, and cash balances 285 million to 600 million 414 million.
In addition, the Company intends to issue 1 Including 17.7 million of income 2 Excluding investments in Strategic Equity Capital plc and The Strategic Recovery Fund 3 As at 17 March 2006 4 Expected cash balances at 31 March 2006 and excluding approximately 46 million from the realisations of Washtec, austriamicrosystems and Inmarsat 5 SVG Diamond Private Equity II plc and SVG Diamond Holdings II Limited 6 Subject to certain conditions SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 03 returns for shareholders will derive primarily approximately 200 million 138 million of that our portfolio and future commitments from capital gains.
During the 12 months bonds through a private placement in the will continue to deliver strong asset growth the Company received approximately coming months.
7 17.5 million of income from its portfolio, primarily as a result of the high level of Permira focuses on larger buy-outs, recapitalisations during the year.
Accordingly, predominantly in Europe, and with a strong in order to maintain Investment Trust status, concentration on operational improvement, your Board propose to declare an interim creating value in the acquired businesses dividend of 3.1p per share following the through the introduction of new strategies, forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
more appropriate cost structures, better asset utilisation and strong management.
Nicholas Ferguson Board Chairman The Board worked well together during the Permira IV aims to capitalise on the expanding year and we have a detailed review of Board opportunities for private equity internationally, activities on page 21.
During the course of particularly in Europe, and will follow a similar 2006 we intend to appoint one further investment remit to its predecessor funds, independent non-executive director.
Permira Europe I, II and III.
The fund will focus on investments in established businesses, Annual General Meeting capable of performance improvement and or The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Monday significant growth.
The core focus will continue 24 April 2006 at 111 Strand, London, to be European buy-out opportunities.
In WC2R 0AG, and, as in previous years, it will addition Permira IV will consider opportunities include a presentation on the activities of the originated by the Permira offices in New York Company.
and Toyko the former only in international as opposed to domestic US buy-outs.
Permira Outlook has a sector-focused approach to deal initiation I believe the portfolio of companies is well and selection and has considerable experience diversified, by vintage year, industry and in investing in Consumer, TMT technology, geography and I am pleased with the media, telecoms Chemicals and Industrial performance over the year, with many products and Services sectors.
companies successfully growing earnings and repaying debt, through strong underlying SVG Advisers cash flows.
This gives confidence for whatever Our fund management business, SVG Advisers, conditions good or bad the economic grew well and has closed further funds post and financial markets present to us.
Third-party funds under management and commitments now Over time, private equity should outperform stand at 2.4 billion, versus 1.5 billion at public markets, as SVG Capital has done since 31 December 2004.
Investment performance its launch in 1996.
However, manager continues to be good.
A review of the selection is key, as the differential between top SVG Advisers operations is included in the and median managers is far more pronounced Operating review overleaf.
than in most other asset classes.
SVG Capital is aligned with one of Europes leading private Dividend equity firms, Permira, who have produced top The Companys investment objective is one quartile returns for investors.
We are confident of capital growth and it is anticipated that 7 Exclusive of 0.2 million of income received by Platinum Trust
