Chairmans statement Financial summary This included a 7.6 million profit from the disposal Supporting these plans we again made significant It has been a year of further progress for the Group of our freehold property in Croydon.
The balance investments in our infrastructure during the year.
and I am pleased to report a solid profit performance of 3.9 million was made up of 5.4 million from Our new Carpetright Direct distribution operation within a tough trading environment as well as continuing the strategy of relocating away from is a dedicated standalone fleet of 90 Carpetright continued strong cash flows and a recommended A1 to bulky goods parks and a 1.5 million charge vehicles operating from our new 80,000 sq.
ft. final dividend of 28.0p, giving a total of 47.0p for the from the disposal and termination of our Carpet distribution centre at Huntingdon.
We can now year, an increase of 6.8%.
deliver a quicker and better service and are well Our pre tax profit was 72.5 million an prepared for the future as the business grows.
Underlying operating Update on objectives We have also commenced our programme profits were 63.9 million, a reduction of 4.1%.
Our UK and Republic of Ireland business continued to update our systems with the first release of our This performance reflected improved results in to make good progress towards its objectives and new finance and procurement platform having Belgium and The Netherlands offset by lower again achieved an underlying operating margin of gone live at our central support office over Easter.
profits in the UK and Republic of Ireland due to over 15%.
During the year we added a net 12 stores Finally we completed our programme to a weakening market in our second half as well as to our portfolio.
We now trade from 376 stores and ensure all the third party fitters we work with are increases in rent and dual running costs for our are well on track to achieving our target of 450 stores up to the standards we require and we are already distribution operations.
Interest charges were within three years.
The majority of our openings were seeing the benefits of this from better service reduced by 0.1 million over the course of the year either in our new small store format or in the Republic and reduced complaints.
All of these significant resulting in underlying pre tax profit of 62.3 million of Ireland, both of which continue to perform well.
investments continue to ensure that we provide down 4.1% compared to last year.
Additionally, we continue to be encouraged by an excellent service to our customers, backing The improvement in pre tax profit was driven the early performance of our 27 strong concessions up the wide range and keen prices that we offer.
by the increased profits from the disposal of fixed operation within department stores, as well as the Our business in Belgium and The Netherlands assets as we continued to trade our property fast growing Carpetright at home business which had a good year and we achieved some important portfolio successfully.
In total the profits from is now trading from an extended fleet of 50 vans.
Profitability improved as we once the disposal of fixed assets and disposal and Both of these operations currently contribute a again grew sales and took market share within termination of businesses were 11.5 million.
small percentage to our total turnover and profits, a marketplace which has remained subdued.
but importantly they have allowed us to enter into segments of the market in which we previously did not have any representation and so will help us to continue to grow market share.
Underlying excludes goodwill amortisation and profits losses from the disposal of property assets or termination of businesses.
It also excludes any one off and prior period tax adjustments.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 2 Lord Harris of Peckham Chairman and Chief Executive We also achieved stronger margins and lower Board Non-Executive Directors costs from having completed the programme to As announced on 2 February 2005, Guy Weston Executive Directors make better use of all the resources of the Group.
joined the Company as a Non-Executive Director.
As announced on 23 May 2005 Ian Kenyon will join Underlying operating margin is now over 6% and Sir Harry Djanogly retired from the Board on the Board on 30 August 2005 as Group Finance well on the way to our target of 10%.
We would like to thank Sir Harry Director.
Ian will replace Darren Shapland who On the store portfolio side we completed our for his hard work and efforts since joining the Board is leaving the Group on 29 July 2005 to become rebranding and modernisation programme at the at flotation in 1993.
Chief Financial Officer of J Sainsbury plc.
We would end of the first half and also made another five like to thank Darren for his contribution since joining sublets of excess trading space, taking our total Prospects the Board in 2002. to 10 sublets since our acquisition.
We now have There is no doubt that the UK floor coverings market We have also realigned the responsibilities a fully rebranded and modernised estate and has become more difficult since the start of 2005 in of the other Executive Directors as follows: the majority of our investment in this business line with several other DIY and housing related sectors John Kitching, previously Group Managing is now complete.
as well as retail in general.
However the Carpetright Director, has become Europe Chief Executive Additionally we have started a programme business is well placed, with its strong competitive and has taken direct responsibility for the growth to add space to our portfolio and have already position, to continue to grow market share.
of our business in Belgium and The Netherlands opened two new stores since the year end, with This, alongside our clear UK and European expansion as well as our potential development further into a further five to be added during the rest of the plans, continued drive for margin growth, ongoing mainland Europe.
Our target of adding at least 20 extra stores profits from property and strong cash generation Christian Sollesse, previously Group Sales over a three year time frame is on track and should enable the business to continue to deliver Director, has become UK and Republic of Ireland with these stores we will move into parts of good returns for shareholders going forward.
Managing Director and has taken responsibility for Belgium and The Netherlands where we are Finally, I am taking this opportunity to thank the UK trading operation.
our staff for their contribution over the past year.
Martin Harris remains as Group Commercial Their continued hard work and efforts has enabled Director and has taken on additional responsibility us to once again grow the business and maintain for the warehouse, distribution and property.
our position at the forefront of carpet and floor I remain as Chairman and Chief Executive covering retailing.
of the Group working with the other Executive Directors in the development towards the Groups Lord Harris of Peckham medium term targets.
Chairman and Chief Executive Alongside the operating review we focus on what we are doing to serve the customer across our operations: Targeting.
I am pleased to report a solid profit performance within a tough Service.
trading environment as well as continued strong cash flows and p a dividend increase of 6.8%.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 3
