Chairmans statement with the approach adopted at the interim stage, and, as I explained at that time, there is very little financial impact for the Company arising from the adoption of these standards.
Most of the changes are, in fact, of a presentational nature.
Outlook The last five years have seen two particular themes prevalent in the UK equity market: the outperformance of small and medium-sized companies relative to large companies and the success of investment strategies biased towards a search for companies whose shares exhibited strong value characteristics, such as a high dividend yield, rather than those with the greatest long-term growth prospects.
The Temple Bar portfolio has exploited both these themes.
However, the Manager now believes that the valuation The total return, including reinvested dividends, on the discrepancies that encouraged both of these trends net assets of Temple Bar during 2005 was 21.5%, have corrected, or in some cases over-corrected: as which compares with a total return for the FTSE-All a result, the Temple Bar portfolio is becoming Share Index of 22.0%.
The return achieved is a increasingly reflective of these changed views.
combination of underlying portfolio performance and the effect of the capital gearing of the Trust.
While this The recovery of the UK equity market from its lows in early 2003 has now lasted almost three years.
is a marginal under-performance for the year as a whole the five year record versus the benchmark Over that period the FTSE-All Share Index has risen nearly 80% and the biggest setback from peak to index remains very positive.
A detailed analysis of performance is provided in the Managers report.
Compared with other periods when markets have risen strongly, we would The Board is recommending a final dividend of appear to be near the tail-end of this run.
Admittedly, 18.93p per share, to produce a total increase for the valuations do not look expensive, companies year of 3.0%, backed by strong dividend increases balance sheets are strong and global economic made by many of the companies held in the growth appears resilient.
However, we prefer not to portfolio.
This dividend will be payable on 31 March ignore the lessons of history and do not believe it is 2006 to those shareholders on the register as at the time to be taking heroic positions on the 17 March 2006. portfolio.
The Manager and his team will, as usual, Post-tax revenue earnings increased by 7.73%.
The adhere to their contrarian principles in the year proposed dividend was more than covered by net ahead and we are confident that this will uncover a earnings generated on the portfolio during the year.
The level of capital gearing, at 13.5%, again Annual General Meeting contributed positively to performance during the The AGM will be held on Monday 27 March at the period.
In addition to the formal The price of Temple Bar shares traded close to their business of the meeting, the managers will make a underlying net asset value throughout the year, presentation to shareholders reviewing the past year supported by the steady demand created within the and commenting on the outlook.
I look forward to Companys Savings Scheme and ISA products.
welcoming as many of you as possible.
IFRS Shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting For the first time the Annual Report and Accounts are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
have been prepared on the basis of International 21 February 2006 Financial Reporting Standards.
This is consistent John Reeve TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 7
