Chairmans Statement Peter Salsbury BSc Chairman 24 May 2005 Introduction Strong property equity markets throughout 2004 have helped the Trust produce another substantial increase in both the asset value per share and in the share price.
Revenue per share has also continued to grow strongly and the Board is able to recommend another double digit dividend increase.
In my interim statement I updated shareholders on the change of fund manager from Henderson to Thames River Capital.
Six months further on, I can report that the Board is pleased with the new relationship and that our fund management team is finding the new environment both productive and stimulating.
Two matters were outstanding when I wrote to you last November.
The first was the transition of the PE P, ISA and Share Plan schemes and the second, the question of the name of the Trust.
I comment on both these later in my statement, and in particular I should like to draw shareholders attention to my letter on the subject of the name change, which is enclosed with this report and accounts.
Performance In the year ended 31 March 2005, the Trusts asset value per share rose by 28.4% to 145.1p and the share price increased by 35.3% to 128.5p.
These increases compare with a rise of 24.6% in our benchmark index over the same period.
The annual total returns, which include the value of the dividends paid during the period, were 31.1% for the net asset value, 38.5% for the share price and 29.1% for the benchmark.
Property equities outperformed general equity 4 TR Property Investment Trust Chairmans Statement continued T en Y ear Performance 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar 95 Mar 96 Mar 97 Mar 98 Mar 99 Mar 00 Mar 01 Mar 02 Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 Index of TR Property net asset value and share price compared with a composite benchmark index comprising the FTSE Real Estate Index for the period 31 March 1995 to 30 September 2001 and the S&P Citigroup European Property Index for the period 1 October 2001 to 31 March 2005 Composite Benchmark Index TR Property Share Price TR Property Net Asset Value Revenue markets over the year in which the total return on the FT SE All Share Index was 15.6%.
Included in our performance The revenue earnings per share for the year are 2.85p per share, a rise of 13.5% over the 2.51p per share reported figures are the returns from our direct property holdings which produced an ungeared total return of 13.4% over the last year.
Interest costs rose due to greater average borrowings and higher base rates, year.
Holding direct property in the Trust gives our managers valuable insight into trends in the UK commercial property and management fees rose as the shareholders funds grew.
Net revenue after tax was only 2.4% higher, but the market, so aiding equity investment, and, though the direct portfolio retards overall performance in years when equity weighted average number of shares used to calculate the per share revenue declined by 9.9%.
price growth is strong, the opposite has been true in years when equity markets offered neutral or negative returns.
Revenue earnings per share have risen by 102%, or 15.1% compound, from the 1.41p per share in the year to Marc h 2000.
Five years ago, at the end of March 2000, the share price and the net asset value per share were 45.25p and Our managers have advised the Board that they anticipate the Trusts revenue per share will increase in the current year in the 56.52p respectively.
The growth in the intervening period has been 184% and 157%, equivalent to 23.2% and absence of unforeseen circumstances, and that the rate of growth in percentage terms is likely to be in the order of 10% 20.8% compound growth per annum.
In September 2001 the benchmark was changed to the current one from the to 15%.
I should add the caveat that, as over 80% of our income is derived from dividends paid on our shareholdings, such a FTSE Real Estate Index, and on a composite basis, the benchmark growth has been 104% or 15.3%p.
a. forecast is made on assumptions about the timing and extent of dividend payments over whic h our managers have no control.
compound over the five year period, while the benchmark we discarded has grown by only 83% 12.9% p. a. compound.
Gluttons for numerical punishment may also Dividend wish to be reminded that the All Share Index has fallen by The Board is recommending to shareholders a final 21% in the same five years.
dividend of 1.55p per share, an increase of 10.7% over TR Property Investment Trust 5 Chairmans Statement continued the final dividend of 1.40p per share paid last year.
Over the financial year the Euro rose T ogether with the interim dividend of 1.30p per share against the Pound by 2.6%, increasing the value of the already paid this produces a total payment of 2.85p per Trusts overseas assets by some 5.2m, equivalent to share for the year, a 14.0% increase over the total of 1.50p per share.
2.50p per share paid last year.
Board I am pleased to report the appointment of Peter Wolton Share Repurchases who joined the Board as a non-executive director in Our managers, acting on the Boards instructions, bought January 2005.
Peter has been involved in the fund back a total of 8.05 million shares for cancellation during management industry for many years latterly as CEO of the year, reducing the outstanding equity by 2.3%.
The Baring Asset Management Limited.
Further details of his total cost of these shares including fees and stamp duty background are shown on page 21. was 9.01m an average price of 111.9p per share.
These transactions added some 1.16m or 0.33p per Management Personnel and Awards share to the Trusts total return for the year.
At the interim stage I reported that Chris Turner, Marcus W e first took powers to buy back shares for cancellation in Phayre-Mudge and James Wilkinson had joined the staff 1999.
Since then our managers have bought back for of our new investment managers, Thames River Capital, at cancellation a total of just under 25% of the outstanding the start of October 2004.
Joanne Elliott, our finance capital.
These repurchases have improved the Trusts manager from 1996 until last September, rejoined the returns per share and have helped to manage the discount.
In April, Nicola Williamson was They also served to reduce the size of the Trust in a period recruited to assist with investor relations.
Shareholders, when we have seen depletion of our investment universe.
including Share Plan, PE P and ISA holders, can contact This is illustrated by the fact that, of our forty top equity Nicola directly or via the website.
investments at March 2000, eighteen have since been During the last six months the Trust has received awards taken private or been acquired by other businesses.
The from Investment W eek for Best Specialist Investment potential for excellent investment performance is made Trust of 2004 and from Observer Money for Best Large more difficult if the Trust grows unchecked in a period Trust of the Y ear 2005. when suitable investment opportunities are becoming scarcer.
With this in mind the managers have continuing Share Plan, PE P and ISA Schemes instructions to repurchase shares for cancellation at an In my interim statement I commented that Henderson appropriate discount to asset value.
had agreed to continue as plan managers up to the end of the 2004 2005 tax year, and that a selection process Net Debt, Gearing and Currencies for a new manager was in hand.
In February we The year started and finished with net debt of 81m, appointed BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited to though throughout most of the period the net debt figure replace Henderson as plan managers.
In percentage terms gearing declined from Share Plan holders have all been given the opportunity of 20% to 16% of net assets due to the growth in remaining with Henderson and switching to other funds, shareholders funds over the year.
In the current, less or moving their holdings to the new schemes.
I should certain economic outlook, the Trusts gearing level is like to apologise to those shareholders involved in the expected to be between 10% and 25% over the coming transition for the amount of paperwork involved.
tiresome transition process has now been successfully In accordance with the Boards long term policy, all our completed, and I am delighted to report that the vast debt continues to be denominated in Sterling and the majority over 3,000 of holders have transferred to the Trusts exposure to foreign currency movements is new schemes.
6 TR Property Investment Trust Chairmans Statement continued The Name of the Trust economic conditions that the investment market could In my interim statement I noted that the terms of the continue to rise even in a vacuum.
former management agreement with Henderson The outlook for the global economy has grown more placed on the Board an obligation to call an EG M at uncertain since the start of 2005.
Global interest rate which your directors are contractually b ound to expectations are caught between concern for rising recommend to shareholders that the name of the Trust inflation and weakening consumer confidence.
This is be changed in such a way that the initials TR no longer sure to have an effect on future tenant demand.
form part of the title of the Trust.
This EG M will be held Some property company share prices, particularly those in immediately after the Trusts AG M on 19 July.
Enclosed the UK, have reacted to this recent uncertainty and with these accounts is a formal notice of the meeting discounts to asset value have emerged again.
Y our together with acovering letter.
I urge all shareholders managers have reduced gearing recently and are looking to read my letter, consider the matter and to to lower their exposure to other stocks, particularly those exercise their vote.
on the Continent, where significant premiums to asset Outlook value still apply.
Over the last three years we have deliberately reduced the size of our direct property The length and strength of the bull market in commercial property investment has been very impressive, and even portfolio to enjoy the higher beta offered by real estate securities.
Our managers will now be looking to reinvest in now the upward path in values continues.
It is tempting to believe that investors in real estate are so impervious to this area of the portfolio if suitable opportunities arise.
