Chairmans Statement Always take the long-term view and train and race smart, with a bit of caution.
Bill Rodgers Harry Henderson Highlights of the Year NAV Performance Total shareholder return of 27.9% In September 2004 your Board took the decision to reduce the UK NAV performance in line with the benchmark proportion of the portfolio and increase the Trusts exposure to The Board of F&C Pacic appoints Witan Investment Services overseas markets.
I am pleased to report that this has been a Discount management policy enhances NAV positive contributor to the investment performance of the Trust.
New Board appointments On the other hand your Board expected that equity returns were Total expense ratio of 0.47% 2004: 0.60% likely to be in high single gure percentages, not in the high twenties.
I am pleased to report that the NAV has risen in line Shareholder Returns with our long-term benchmark, as this measure of performance Witans share price rose by 24.9% over the year, giving a total was going to be a difficult one for us to match in very strong return to shareholders including dividends of 27.9% source: market conditions.
Jim Horsburgh comments fully on individual AITC.
This strong performance was achieved as a result of manager performance.
The positive effects of gearing, share buyuniversally strong equity markets and our discount management backs and asset allocation made up the shortfall against the policy.
benchmark that resulted from the underlying investment performance.
The surprise this year has been the scale and breadth of the return from global equity markets UK 22% and World ex UK Dividends 24.8%, sterling adjusted while at the same time volatility has Your Board has declared a second interim dividend of 5.00 pence continued at historically very low levels.
In other words, high per ordinary share to make a total distribution for the year of returns have come with seemingly low levels of risk.
This represents an increase of been the case in almost all equity markets, even in the 2.3%, which is in line with the RPI and in accordance with our traditionally more volatile emerging economies.
We are taught stated dividend policy.
that these conditions cannot continue for long: either returns will be lower or volatility will rise.
Your Board believes this is the Witan Investment Services wrong time to be taking on more risk and is rmly of the belief In the Interim Report I highlighted the decision of the board of that the diversity of holdings and of managers will help if F&C Pacic Investment Trust PLC to appoint Witan as executive conditions become more adverse.
manager of its new multi-manager structure, together with a change of the name to Witan Pacic Investment Trust PLC.
This In my statement last year I said the Board will continue to relationship, combined with your Boards decision to take full employ share buy-backs with a new aim of permanently reducing responsibility for the marketing of the Witan brand, has required the level of the discount to well below 10% with debt at fair us to set up and authorise with the FSA a new wholly-owned value over the medium term.
The discount at the year end was subsidiary, Witan Investment Services Limited WIS. 9.8% compared to 13.8% twelve months prior.
To achieve this This new subsidiary will actively seek new clients.
Those level of discount reduction the Board has purchased 44 million investment trust boards wishing to review their current shares 13% of the share capital, enhancing the NAV by 15.9 arrangements can use WIS to access, for the first time, suppliers of million or by about 1.2% per share.
The discount management services from outside the industry.
In this way Witan Investment policy has been a positive contributor both to the share price and Services intends to generate additional income for Witan itself.
to Net Asset Value NAV performance.
4 Board Changes new treatments are reconciled in notes 22 and 23 on pages 44 to 46.
The accounts also now refer to investments being recognised or In reviewing the changes your Board has made over the last two derecognised, the important date as before being the date on which years, I was struck by this quote from a headhunter writing in a investments are bought or sold.
He is talking about the difficulties of recruiting and bringing the correct sort of imagination to the Dividends table and points out the relevance of being taught Latin and In previous years the proposed final dividend was accrued in our full year Greek: What our ancestors show us, in their eccentric way, is a accounts, although it had not been approved by shareholders until the profound truth about human thinking.
By focusing the mind on Annual General Meeting.
IFRS now prevents us from accounting for an interim dividend until it has been paid or for a final dividend until it has difficult but useless and seemingly irrelevant things, you free it been approved by the shareholders in general meeting.
Accordingly, the from premature engagement.
Conversely by focusing on final dividend payable in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004 has manifestly relevant facts and proven expertise, you often x it been added back to the assets at that date and shown as paid, in the new forever in yesterdays problems and yesterdays world.
Statement of Changes in Equity, in 2005.
The second interim dividend, which we are paying this year in place of a final dividend, is not We say goodbye to Christopher Clarke and Charlie McVeigh.
accounted for in 2005 but will be shown as paid in the accounts for 2006.
Christopher retires after thirteen years on the Board, the first Preference shares seven of which were spent as managing director, a particularly Until now, the relatively small amount of our preference share capital has good period for Witan.
With these two retirements we lose a been shown as part of the non-equity interests of the Company within great deal of experience.
Both Christopher and Charlie have shareholders funds.
IFRS now requires us to treat the Witan preference helped Witan in an imaginative and constructive way and we shares as debt rather than equity.
shall miss their wise counsel.
Annual General Meeting We welcome Tony Watson and Jane Platt to the Board.
They Our AGM will be held this year at Merchant Taylors Hall, on both bring strong experience of investment management and Monday 24 April 2006 at 2.30pm.
Formal notice of the meeting also of business management.
I am confident that they will keep is set out on pages 50 and 51 and further details are given on the us moving forward.
With my fellow directors, I look forward to the opportunity to meet you then.
New Accounting Standards These accounts are the first full year audited accounts produced Conclusion under the new accounting standards International Financial In conclusion, 2005 was a vintage year for stock markets and in Reporting Standards or IFRS.
In the Interim Report we particular for the Witan shareholder.
Following the changes of highlighted the main points of difference between the old the last eighteen months, your Board views the future with treatments and the treatments under the new format.
It now has in place the structure, approach and helpful if we reiterate the main ones: exibility to take advantage of ever-changing global investment markets.
Investments held at fair value through profit or loss Quoted investments in the Witan portfolio were shown previously at midmarket prices, and described as xed assets in the balance sheet.
The new IFRS treatment requires us to use bid or selling prices and the Harry Henderson descriptions investments designated as held at fair value through profit or loss and non current assets.
The differences between the old and the 9 March 2006 5
