Chairmans Statement As always, we will manage our business with shareholder value rmly at the top of our agenda.
Wholesale commodity prices escalated to unprecedented Roger Carr, Chairman levels in 2005 creating considerable challenges for management in an increasingly competitive marketplace.
Against this background we delivered a strong financial performance in the year.
The executive team focused on vigorously reducing those costs within their control and developing attractive propositions for both new and existing customers in a difficult market, resulting in improved levels of customer retention.
In the UK, growth opportunities in services and commercial markets were targeted by more focused management teams, whilst in both continental Europe and North America we made good progress in expanding our footprint.
Cost control remains a high priority for the Company.
Key system developments and process improvements which reduce costs both in the near and medium term were successfully progressed by dedicated and professional teams.
In parallel, a review of our central overhead costs was undertaken in the continued pursuit of achieving the efficiencies necessary to meet our objective to be the lowest cost-to-serve energy supplier.
Our strategic priorities Undoubtedly the benets of both system evolution and corporate cost contraction will serve to underpin our 2006 performance in what will be a year of further challenge.
Rigorous cost reduction across the Group We continued to search for value-creating opportunities upstream and successfully acquired gas and oil assets in the Proactive marketing to strengthen customer loyalty UK with an attractive earnings prole to enhance our ability Positive price management to sustain profitability to deliver a competitive cost of goods.
We remain committed Building growth in our service and energy to deploying our cash to create value for shareholders and businesses at home and abroad throughout the year applied our strict financial disciplines to the evaluation of acquisition and investment opportunities.
Absolute financial discipline in acquisition and We reinforced our absolute focus on energy and related capital investment services with the disposal of Onetel, our last remaining peripheral business, at the end of 2005.
This additional clarity of focus will be beneficial in the year ahead to ensure that all management endeavours and financial resources are channelled to our core business.
Our lobbying in Europe started to show signs of success with some clear moves towards greater transparency and market access which we believe will be instrumental in ensuring our international competitiveness in the years ahead.
Returns to shareholders The Board of Directors is proposing a final dividend of 7.4 pence per share to be paid in June 2006, bringing our full year dividend to 10.5 pence per share.
This represents 2 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement continued a 22% year-on-year increase and is in line with our previous Outlook The items that were on our agenda in 2005 will remain as commitment to increase the payout ratio.
As previously stated, for the period 2006 and beyond important in 2006 and will continue to be driven by Sir Roy during his remaining months as Chief Executive.
the Board intends to deliver real growth per annum in the ordinary dividend per share.
Going forward the interim Our pricing policy seeks to recover the wholesale cost of gas over time and acknowledges that the long-term dividend will be set at a level equivalent to 30% of the prior full-year dividend.
strength of the Group is dependent on British Gas delivering a fair and reasonable profit.
We will manage our sales, We concluded our first 500 million share repurchase programme in September 2005 and immediately commenced marketing and customer service activities to reduce the impact of competitor activity and minimise customer churn our second 500 million programme.
In total during 2005 we bought back 385 million of shares.
However, in the light resulting from the recent retail price increase.
Cost reduction remains key to maintaining margins in this continued of current market conditions, the increased working capital requirements associated with higher wholesale costs, and the environment of high commodity prices.
We look forward to the expansion of the infrastructure that brings gas into the UK potential impact of our retail price increase on our cash prole, together with the recent volatility in our share price, has caused and hope to see downward pressure on prices in the latter part of the year which could protect consumers from further us to pause the share buyback programme until calmer and more predictable conditions prevail.
The Board remains retail price increases across the industry.
However, the additional tax on upstream profits announced by the committed to the principle of capital discipline and it believes this move is prudent in the current circumstances.
It will monitor government in December and effective from 1 January 2006 is applying further pressure in an already difficult year.
the position with a view to recommencing the programme at an appropriate time.
Continuing to seek out and evaluate opportunities for upstream investment will be a priority.
As in 2005 this will Management include the consideration of opportunities outside the UK During 2005 we continued to strengthen our Board.
Continental Shelf and in elds which have so far remained In January Jake Ulrich, Managing Director of Centrica Energy, undeveloped.
Patience and discipline will remain our was appointed as an Executive Director and in September watchwords and as always we will manage our business the Board was joined by Andrew Mackenzie as a Non-Executive with shareholder value rmly at the top of our agenda.
Both Jake and Andrew have brought upstream Market conditions are volatile and will remain challenging expertise to the Board which is crucial as we continue to in 2006 but management resolve to deliver a strong develop our upstream portfolio in the UK and overseas.
The organisational changes announced in September have now been fully implemented.
We have a strong and experienced team fully focused on the varied challenges and opportunities facing our business.
In September, Sir Roy Gardner announced his intention to retire and hand over the reins to his new successor by the summer of 2006.
Roger Carr, Chairman 23 February 2006 Our employees This was another difficult year for our people.
Our drive for cost reduction has inevitably created a tough environment and staff have acted professionally to produce high levels of customer service, to retain current and attract new customers, and to support one another in the delivery of stretching business targets.
I am grateful for their continued dedication and commitment.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3
