Chairmans message Our results for the 2005 financial year were strong.
New wave revenues grew by 32% to 4.5 billion, and now represent nearly a quarter of our business.
Earnings per share have more than doubled over the past three years and net debt is more than 20 billion lower than in 2001.
Earnings per share in the 2005 financial year, before people from inside the company to such key roles.
I would goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, grew by 7% also like to thank Pierre Danon, who left the Board in to 18.1 pence.
While continuing to invest for the future, February, for his significant contribution as Chief Executive we generated free cash ow of 2.3 billion, up 10%.
of BT Retail for the last four years.
The news on dividends is positive.
We are recommending a full-year dividend of 10.4 pence per Wider responsibilities share, a pay out ratio of 57% of earnings before goodwill It is increasingly important that companies such as BT amortisation and exceptional items, compared to 50% continue to be good corporate citizens, living up to our last year.
We continue with our progressive dividend responsibilities to the communities in which we operate policy.
The dividend for the 2006 financial year will be at and to the environment.
Im proud to be able to report least 60% of underlying earnings: subject to the groups that, for the fourth year in a row, BT was the highest overall financial position, we expect our pay out ratio to placed telecommunications company in the Dow Jones rise to around two-thirds of underlying earnings by the Sustainability Index.
Our community programmes focus 2008 financial year.
on those issues where communications really can make We continued with our share buy back programme in the difference: we have provided long-term support, for the 2005 financial year.
This is being funded from cash example, for a drama-based education programme to help generated over and above that required for servicing our develop young peoples communications skills, and for the debt.
We have reduced net debt to below 8 billion, a work of the childrens charity ChildLine.
level with which we are comfortable.
Like so many other companies and individuals, we wanted to respond to the devastating Asian tsunami in Business progress December 2004.
We made a donation of 500,000 to In support of our strategy for transformation and growth, the Disasters Emergency Committee DEC and we your Board gave backing during the year for a targeted provided a live call centre for the unprecedented number series of acquisitions that will help to build our capabilities of calls coming into the DEC. Im particularly proud of the as one of the worlds foremost global networked IT fact that so many of our employees were involved in services companies.
These acquisitions offered value for fundraising activities and that 16 of our engineers money, had a compelling strategic t and brought travelled to the affected area to help re-establish capabilities to strengthen BT globally.
the five million mark for broadband connections in the UK in early April was a key moment in the history of your Outlook company.
The process of transformation on which your company embarked in 2001 is accelerating.
That process is Regulation increasingly reected in your companys results.
We are well BT welcomed the Strategic Review of Telecommunications set for further success in the years ahead.
During the year we have worked to help inuence Id like to thank shareholders for the loyalty theyve and shape their thinking and made a radical proposal for a shown.
Your continued confidence coupled with the new regulatory landscape in the UK.
We continued to argue loyalty of our customers and suppliers and the strongly that structural separation was not in shareholders imagination and commitment of our employees is or customers interests.
We look forward to the published fundamental to our transformation for growth.
Our position remains that a strategic and exible regulatory regime, together with rapid deregulation wherever possible, is vital to meeting customers developing needs and creating the conditions in which we, and others, can continue to invest with confidence.
Sir Christopher Bland Board membership Chairman There were a number of changes to your Board during the 18 May 2005 2005 financial year.
I would like to welcome Hanif Lalani as our new Group Finance Director.
Ian Livingston, who had occupied the finance role with distinction for three years, was appointed Chief Executive BT Retail with effect from February 2005.
It is a testament to the strength of BTs management team generally that we were able to appoint BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 3
