Chairmans statement 2005 has been my first year as Chairman We have expanded this to give of Hanson PLC, having been appointed stakeholders in the group an insight to the role in April 2005.
I am pleased to into the way in which the Board of be able to report that during 2005 the Hanson PLC analyses its environment group once again achieved excellent and operating activities.
progress against its primary objective, which is to create sustainable, long-term We remain fully compliant with section value for our shareholders.
404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act ahead of the requirement for foreign We have grown the group turnover, US registrants.
This underlines our earnings and margins of our existing commitment to strong financial control businesses in 2005 and have added and discipline.
further value through a number of significant acquisitions.
We have Corporate responsibility increased our dividend and share Hanson is committed to a programme buyback programme.
of ongoing improvement in all areas of its corporate responsibility.
Our operating environment has continued to change during the year, including I am happy to report that for the fifth further consolidation of our customer and consecutive year we saw an overall competitor base.
Both at a strategic and improvement in our safety statistics.
at an operational level, Hanson believes We promote a culture of continuous it is meeting these challenges.
improvement in our safety awareness across all of our operations, with the Returns to shareholders Board monitoring formally the groups The Board recommends a final safety performance on a quarterly basis.
The information obtained from these This, together with the interim dividend, quarterly reports and from presentations makes a total of 20p 18.15p for the to the Board is used to identify where year, an increase of 10.2%.
The Investor particular attention should be focused information section of this report and to assess the effectiveness of provides payment details.
Hanson has continued the on-market Environmental issues are also share buyback programme begun in reported quarterly to the Board.
During the year ended December careful management of environmental During 2005, the group once again 31, 2005, we bought back 8,335,000 issues is an integral part of our overall achieved excellent progress against shares 6,350,000 shares for 46.7m business strategy.
its primary objective, which is to 26.1m, equivalent to 1.1% 0.9% of create sustainable, long-term value outstanding shares.
Hanson people for our shareholders.
The Hanson team of highly motivated Mike Welton Board of Directors people is one of Hansons greatest Chairman, Hanson PLC After the AGM in 2005, Chris Collins assets.
We are dedicated to delivering stepped down as Chairman.
On your increased value to all our constituents behalf, I thank Chris for his tremendous including shareholders, customers, contribution, initially as an Executive suppliers, fellow employees and the Director of Hanson and then as Chairman.
communities in which we operate.
We are also grateful for the contributions The introduction, some two years ago, over many years of Simon Keswick of the Hanson guiding principles for and Kenneth Baker as Non-executive employees is one of the drivers of a high Directors, who also stepped down performance corporate culture.
been surprised and delighted by the level of expertise and enthusiasm I have In August 2005, we welcomed John encountered since assuming the role of Brady to our Board as a Non-executive Chairman and would like to thank Alan Director.
John brings with him a wide Murray and the rest of his team for their experience gained in his years at efforts and achievements during 2005.
McKinsey, latterly as a Director working on board strategy.
Looking forward We expect to make further progress Corporate governance during 2006 based on strong market Although plans to introduce a mandatory positions, value adding acquisition Operating and Financial Review have opportunities and continued financial been shelved by the UK government, discipline.
I believe we have the assets we are required to produce the equivalent and the people to realise our objective of an Operating and Financial Review and create sustainable value for all our to satisfy US regulatory requirements.
