Chairmans review Strong results, which demonstrate the success of the groups strategy Performance Looking forward I am pleased to report another strong set of results.
Turnover Looking to the future, and following the conclusion of our regulatory including share of joint ventures rose 11.9 per cent to 2,368.2 reviews, the board has set a target of maintaining dividends in real million, reecting growth across all businesses.
Total operating profit terms over the next five years.
This target is dependent upon the increased 10.7 per cent to 645.9 million compared with last year.
groups regulated business at least meeting its cost savings targets, This increase reects improved operating profits in licensed multiand its non-regulated businesses continuing to perform at least in utility operations, infrastructure management and business process line with current levels.
outsourcing, and reduced operating losses in telecommunications.
On behalf of the board, I want to acknowledge and thank all our Dividend staff for their commitment and hard work in achieving these results.
These results further demonstrate the success of our strategy, to improve the efficiency of our regulated businesses and to achieve growth in our support services businesses.
In line with our target to maintain dividends in real terms, the board is proposing to increase the final dividend by 2.5 per cent.
Subject to shareholders approval Sir Richard Evans at the annual general meeting, the final dividend for the year ended Chairman 31 March 2005 of 30.63 pence per ordinary share and 15.315 pence per A share will be paid on 26 August 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 June 2005.
People We were pleased to welcome David Jones and Nick Salmon to the board as non-executive directors earlier this year.
Much of Davids career has been spent in the utility sector, latterly as chief executive of National Grid.
Nick is currently chief executive of Cookson Group plc and has considerable experience of the energy infrastructure sector.
With their respective backgrounds, I have no doubt that both will add to the quality of board debate.
In addition, it was particularly pleasing to welcome Tom Drury as an executive director.
Tom has led Vertex to become one of the leading business process outsourcing companies in the UK and, before that, he held other senior management positions in the group.
Finally, I wish to place on record the boards sincere thanks to John Seed who will retire at the next annual general meeting, having completed three three-year terms of ofce.
In particular, John has ably chaired the remuneration committee for many years and his experience and sound judgement will be greatly missed by his board colleagues.
Operating profit loss is dened as total operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items for a segment as shown in the segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.
2 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005
