Statement by the Chairman, John Ritblat British Land has had a thoroughly good year.
I have every confidence in the current property market, but I must still stress the skills, instincts and sometimes courage that are required to achieve good returns, not just now but in the future.
In attracting major new tenants to occupy our new developments in the City of London, our properties have passed the acid test.
We have raised funds of 3.1 billion including a record financing in excess of 2 billion on Broadgate, and we spent 1.3 billion.
In November 2004 we were delighted to welcome Stephen Hester as our new Chief Executive.
Results Our financial results revealed profits pre-tax, pre-exceptional exceeding 200 million for the first time ever.
We took a 180 million 24p per share net of tax exceptional charge in respect of the Broadgate refinancing, and suffered a reduction 32p per share in net assets as a consequence of the arbitrary removal of the Stamp Duty exemption for disadvantaged areas but, even so, we made a 15% increase in net assets per share, which rose 145p to 1111p on an adjusted diluted basis.
The total return was 22.4% before the exceptional charge and the loss of Stamp Duty exemption, and still 16.6% after.
The final dividend is up 8.2% to 10.9p per share, making a distribution of 15.7p for the year.
British Lands approach We strive to buy or construct buildings to match what tenants need and want, not just now but in the future.
In todays market they are much better informed and more selective than was the case when property was a scarce commodity.
Energy efficiency, the quality of life and amenities for occupiers, and the impact on local communities, all must pass muster.
Buildings also need to be capable of being kept up-to-date by easy adaptation as technology evolves ever further.
This is not a shortterm business.
British Land selects its portfolio to encourage tenants to take long leases in our high quality, well located buildings.
Property offering these advantages is a good investment for our shareholders and will grow in value over time as it produces increasing income.
6 The British Land Company PLC The British Land Company PLC Property market and regulations ventures and leasebacks a particular feature of its There may be some disillusionment among private investors business.
By co-operating with partners it has been with equities, but that makes the prospect of REITs Real possible to obtain the benefits of extending assets Estate Investment Trusts even more significant.
These under management to 14 billion, well above our own Trusts will enable investors to put their funds into those assets of 12.5 billion.
And property owners risking capital property companies which convert to REIT status without, have to work together they are often neighbours and as at present, being taxed twice, at both the corporate communities gain from major redevelopment and personal levels.
This is not to suggest of course that schemes carried out jointly.
investors should be beguiled by the blandishments of tax benefits over the merits of the underlying assets.
The Financial resources foundation of the portfolio for our investors is always the A major property business takes a lot of financing and prospects and quality of our buildings.
as I have always said, half of our business is simply about The enactment, when the Government has ended money.
Though the assets, our buildings, are highly its consultation process, of considered legislation on visible counters, the liabilities demand almost as much REITs will signify real progress.
We are pleased that the attention.
Since we launched the first securitisation by a interests of all property companies are being represented British property company in 1996 we have raised over by Lucinda Bell, our own Head of Tax and Accounting.
5.3 billion through this route, refining techniques and I have every confidence in the current property reducing costs to provide a range of maturities.
The market, but I must still stress the skills, instincts and maintenance of adequate financial resource remains a sometimes courage that are required to achieve good key focus of our business, with managed and structured returns.
A successful equity fund manager may make gearing providing an important method of extracting good picks, but does not manage the companies superior returns from our portfolio of quality.
A successful property entrepreneur also has to appear lower but not the long-term prospects for gain make good picks, but additionally has to apply creative and total return.
managerial and asset management skills, coupled with In reality and in real estate there are no short cuts awareness of emerging trends to maximise returns.
Major property decisions to buy, results can be only too obvious: there is nowhere to hide.
sell or develop, and related financial decisions, have to The extra managerial dimension required is stand the tests of time.
Though instant uplifts are nice, nowhere more evident than in the testing aspects of it is the long-term projects that bring greater rewards for new development of property, where the gap between shareholders and at lower risk.
success and failure, often the result of idiosyncrasies of personal judgments, can have such severe economic Warmest thanks to Lord Burns, who leaves the Board on consequences.
Many factors can influence the judgments, 30 September 2005.
He has been a highly valued nonand the resulting success or failure is all too apparent.
executive director since 2000, and chairman of our Audit See-through clothing may be revealing, but a seeCommittee.
We wish him every success in his new through building is a disaster!
appointment at Marks & Spencer plc.
The risks are very real, and a constant reminder to We are most grateful to Atisreal whose 20 years those of us who devote our lives to property that often exemplary professional service as valuers to the Group we are exposed to changes in the business environment has now concluded.
over which we have no control.
It is therefore salutary Shareholders have been well served in the past that one change sought by some tenants destroying year by our staff at Head Office, Meadowhall, Broadgate upward only rent reviews was resisted by the and elsewhere.
My warm thanks go to our entire team, Government after it had considered the facts.
Of course including management and my colleagues on the Board, there should be choices offered to tenants, and the for their sustained and cohesive efforts in all aspects of movement towards shorter lease terms and thus fewer our business.
rent reviews has accommodated this choice.
Thats what a free market is about.
Many tenants insist on long leases even with reviews.
They are aware that long-term security, often coupled with extracting substantial cash from lease-back arrangements, can fully justify an upward only rent review John Ritblat Chairman clause, and may well be preferable as a better economic 24 May 2005 bet on market forces.
Tenants currently exercising this preference include some with considerably greater financial muscle than their poor landlords!
Tenants and landlords have common commercial interests, and work together to achieve their separate objectives.
British Land has made the use of joint 7
