16 BRIXTON u CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Overview 2005 has been a very good year reflecting the results of Brixtons clear focus.
Recent strategic expansion and the successful integration of a significant new business Industrious has added value in a short time.
Strong net asset value NAV growth of nearly 25% over the year has been recorded but the key differentiator has been the rental growth that has driven our out-performance against the indices and our peer group.
Our overall portfolio showed 4% rental growth on the year but we actually achieved 8.4% enhancement over the valuers ERVs on a record volume of lettings up 120% to 1.68m sq ft. By way of comparison, the IPD Monthly and Annual Indices reflected 1% and 1.1% industrial rental growth respectively for 2005.
The core activities of the Company remain in the South East where we still have 85% of our property by value with our development programme concentrated around Heathrow and Park Royal.
Particularly exciting are the proposals for the first fully accessed two storey industrial unit to be built outside of Japan or Singapore, namely our X2 development at Hatton Cross which we hope to be consented and completed during 2007.
Results These are a strong set of results with adjusted NAV per share increasing by 24.7% to 484p from 388p at the end of 2004, due to the out-performance from the portfolio which showed a surplus of 14.1%.
The increase in adjusted NAV for the second half of 2005 was 14.7% from 422p at the interim stage.
Net rental income increased over the year by 15.8% to 98.1m.
Investment profit increased by 6.6% to 43.8m and adjusted earnings per share increased by 7.5% to 15.8p.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 7.65p per share, making a total of 11.8p per share for the year, an increase of 2.6% over the 2004 dividend of 11.5p per share.
This years increase marks 38 years of unbroken dividend increases in line with our policy of achieving consistent, progressive growth each year.
LOUISE PATTEN CHAIRMAN 27 MARCH 2006 People We announced in February this year that Michael Moore and John Rink will retire as Non-Executive Directors at our AGM on May 10th and we thank them for their contribution.
David Scotland has become Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman, with Nicholas Fry remaining Chairman of the Audit Committee and me taking the Nominations Committee Chair.
Brixton is tightly focused in personnel terms, having a total staff complement of 103.
The Company is well supported by our consultants, advisers, suppliers and service providers all of whom we thank for their efforts.
The quality of our people has helped B-Serv be such a success as can be seen from the continued high levels of customer satisfaction.
Promotions that have just been announced include James Good to Senior Director Investment and Portfolio Management.
He will be joined on an enlarged 11 person Executive Management Committee by Adrian Bayliss, Director Investment and Richard Howell, Financial Controller, together with Martin Kidd and Roz Rossington, our two Operations Directors Asset Management.
Four other people have been promoted to Directors of their relevant functions and they are Graham Brown, Sally Duggleby, Kurt Mather and Jerry Saunders with Paul Priestley and David Proctor being made Associate Directors.
