Chairmans statement 2005 saw the Company achieve a 36.6% total return on equity before exceptional items, the third consecutive year in which returns have exceeded 30%.
While this period has undoubtedly seen highly favourable conditions in the UK property investment market, the Company has delivered enhanced returns to shareholders through its property management skills and intelligent use of the capital markets to create advantageous financing structures.
Total property assets under management have since the year end Board reached 5.6 billion, principally held through our three established David Cherry, who has been a non-executive director for nine years, funds investing in shopping centres, retail parks and urban is retiring following this years AGM.
His lifetime of experience in the entertainment complexes.
The economies of scale arising from property market has been of great value to the Company, at every our fund-based business model on the financing as well as the stage of its development, but particularly in recent years as the asset management side benefit both the fund investors and our property management operations conducted through CRPM adapted, own shareholders.
The performance fees payable to the Company with his advice and guidance, to the rapid growth in the property assets by the three funds in respect of 2005 exceeded 50 million for under management.
We should all be grateful for his contribution the first time.
during this exceptional period in the Companys development.
We have further strengthened the specialised management teams Employees responsible for each of our funds and they now have greater depth Our success derives from the skills, energy and commitment of than ever before.
While our established operations have continued our employees, of whom there are now 147 in our London and to grow, we have taken two carefully considered new initiatives, Glasgow offices and 522 in our individual centres and Snozone in the area of trade parks in the UK and retail parks in Germany.
Strong financial markets do not by any means make The first signs for these two new businesses are encouraging and, for an easy life and our employees, old and new, have achieved combined with the further growth in scale, quality and value which extraordinary results for the Company, not just in 2005, but over we anticipate in our existing areas of specialisation, they should many years.
On behalf of the shareholders, the Board and I give enable us to deliver continued strong returns.
them our warm thanks and appreciation.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 11p 2004: 9p, Tom Chandos bringing the total for the year to 18p 2004: 14p, a 29% increase Chairman over the previous year.
The total dividends for the year are covered 2.5 times by total after tax profit before exceptional items and 1.6 times by recurring pre-tax profit.
Tom Chandos Chairman 4 Capital & Regional
