Chairmans statement Results Capital expenditure throughout the year totalled A revaluation gain of 124 million brought the value of the 26.5 million, the majority of which was committed groups portfolio to over 1 billion for the first time and to the Johnson Building.
With practical completion took the adjusted net asset value per share up to 1,335p, recently achieved, we are talking to a number of a rise of 24.3%.
Properties held for the full year increased potential tenants.
Capital expenditure of 39 million is in value by 14.8% compared to 8.3% last year as planned for this year, the principal schemes being at investment demand strengthened and exerted continued Gresse Street, W1, Portobello Dock, W10, and Horseferry 2 downward pressure on yields.
This last property, a 13,900 m ofce building in Victoria, was acquired during the year for Advantage was taken of the strong investment market 32.4 million.
Architectural studies have already been with property disposals of 98 million, net of costs, which completed and a comprehensive refurbishment is realised a profit of 9.6 million against their value at 31st planned to commence later this year at a cost of December 2004.
As a result of these sales and planned approximately 17 million.
Telstar House, W2 is our vacancies as schemes moved into the development first externally funded transaction.
Here, we are now stage, net property income decreased by 1.4 million to acting as development managers for Prudential in 2 46.6 million.
Adjusted profit before tax was also lower constructing a new, 9,750 m, ofce building.
A right at 16.7 million, compared to 18.3 million in 2004. to share in the schemes profit has been retained.
Dividend The board has a strategy of recycling resources The directors are recommending a final dividend of and therefore looks to sell properties where its rental 9.725p per share.
Together with the 3.925p per share aspirations have been reached.
As a consequence, paid in November, this amounts to 13.65p for the the average rents within our portfolio remain low at 2 whole year and represents an uplift of 9.2% on last year.
250 per m. From this level, we can generate rental Shareholders on the register on 12th May 2006 will be growth through refurbishment and asset management.
eligible for the dividend that will be paid on 5th June 2006.
Whilst residential development is unlikely to become Review of the year a mainstream activity for the group, it is inevitable that, Within the global real estate sector, Central London with todays rigid planning regulations which enforce ofces continued to be one of the most sought after mixed use development, we will have a level of investment classes for investors.
Our initial scheme provided 14 apartments remained prominent, rental growth improved during the at the rear of the Johnson Building where we applied year and it has been encouraging to see further upward our design brand to create light and spacious living momentum since the year end.
This approach has paid off with 12 of the units sold and the other two under offer.
Further Continued demand for the groups distinctive, design-led residential schemes may be undertaken, particularly in product resulted in another highly successful year of the Islington portfolio, where designating some properties 2 letting space.
During 2005, 19,100 m was let at an for residential development is likely to provide the key to annualised rent of 4.5 million.
The portfolio now contains unlock the potential at other sites.
2 only 9,500 m of space that is available for immediate occupation.
However, such success does not mean that the tank is empty: we have a pipeline of future schemes, some of which are already under construction and others which are progressing through the planning process.
4 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 The Johnson Building Holborn, EC1 2 1 5,900 m Completion: February 2006 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 5 Horseferry House Victoria, SW1 2 13,900 m Completion: January 2008 6 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 Chairmans statement Real Estate Investment Trusts REITs Prospects The proposed introduction of REITs is eagerly awaited.
With investment demand continuing to be strong, However, some of the rules ascribed to date by the and yields currently showing more signs of contraction Treasury are generally perceived as disappointing in their than expansion, new acquisitions where value can be present form, and are unlikely to be widely attractive to added, are likely to remain scarce.
We are fortunate the quoted property sector.
Many interested parties have that, through our discerning acquisition and stringent 2 lobbied the Treasury to stress that the proposed model is sales policies, 50% of the space in our 240,000 m too restrictive and needs amending.
We await the outcome portfolio still retains opportunities for management to of this and also details of a final crucial component, use its full complement of skills to enhance value.
We the conversion charge, which will be levied on companies remain confident that this feature of our portfolio, and that convert to REIT status.
The imminent budget the scope to increase rents from a low base, will enable statement should enable us to have a much clearer us to make further strong progress.
view as to the benets for the group.
J. C. Ivey The board 21st March 2006 Ivan Yeatman, who has been a non-executive director for 10 years, will be standing down at the conclusion of the annual general meeting in May.
Ivan has made an excellent and wide ranging contribution to the development and management of the business.
We will greatly miss his common sense approach and would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his valuable input and advice.
We are pleased to welcome Stuart Corbyn who will join the board after the AGM.
Stuart is chief executive of the Cadogan Estate, one of the principal private estates in London, and a former President of the British Property Federation.
Like Ivan, he has a wealth of experience across the whole property spectrum and I am sure he will make a valuable contribution.
Simon Silver has been awarded an Honorary Fellowship of the Royal Institute of British Architects in recognition of his contribution to architecture and design.
Simon has been the catalyst in evolving the groups innovative approach to creating exciting buildings and we congratulate him on this achievement.
Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 7
