Chairmans Statement In a year of substantial activity, total property returns and total shareholder returns were 17% and 24% respectively Richard Peskin Chairman Overview I am happy to report on another year of substantial activity, strong progress and one in which we have achieved most of our immediate strategic goals.
The Groups portfolio is now 100% concentrated in central London, voids remain at under 3%, the average cost of debt has been further reduced, gearing, following the return of cash last August, is at a more appropriate level for this point in the cycle, asset enhancing acquisitions have been made and the development programme continues to expand.
For the period under review total property returns and total shareholder returns were 17% and 24% respectively.
Results and Dividend Twelve months ago I said that the markets in which we operate had turned the corner and, whilst around any corner there may be a speed bump or two, the cautious optimism we have been expressing for some time has proved to be well founded, particularly in our favoured area of the West End.
Based on an underlying positive valuation movement of 10% on the investment properties and aided by the return of cash, adjusted diluted net assets per share have increased by 19% to 333p: even though there was further yield compression, it is testimony to our timing that one-third of the uplift was attributable to Met Building and the most recent acquisitions.
With adjusted earnings at 11.3p, your directors are recommending a final dividend of 7.17p per share, making a total for the year of 10.75p, up 2.4%.
Property Review The substantial activity to which I refer in my opening sentence will be dealt with in detail in the Chief Executives Review.
We continued to take advantage of the strong appetite for investment property from private and institutional investors and, including transactions since 31 March, we have completed over 150 million of sales, notably, Clarendon House, 17 18 New Bond Street, W1 for 50 million.
On the same timescale, acquisitions, if the assets in our joint ventures with Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society are grossed up, amounted to 295 million.
The major purchases included Ellerman House, 12 20 Camomile Street, EC3 a key addition to our immediate holdings in the area, the subtle assembly of a large development site in Tooley Street, SE1, St. Lawrence House, 26 30 Broadwick Street, W1, the retail element of the Mount Royal block in Oxford Street, W1 and the Liberty Island site, Regent Street, W1.
The creation with Liverpool Victoria of the joint ventures, which purchased the latter two, has not only provided us with additional management income but could also be the forerunner of similar opportunities with other partners.
Another important objective which has been achieved in the past year is the expansion of the development programme.
Practical completion on our first scheme, Met Building, 22 Percy Street, W1, was effected this month and 43% is already let at rental levels well above our original forecasts.
Building works have commenced at 190 Great Portland Street, W1, and on two Mayfair properties, whilst planning permissions have recently been granted on three significant sites north of Oxford Street.
GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES ANNUAL REPORT 2005 5 Chairmans Statement Several other projects are at an advanced design stage and we anticipate that some 185 million will be spent in the next few years on 680,000 sq ft.
This element, which currently comprises less than one-fifth of the Group by value, is set to increase to over one-third on completion and we also anticipate that it will provide a substantial component of future growth in rental income.
Finance In conjunction with the property initiatives, we have continued to manage the capital structure of the Group.
During the year, the balance sheet was, as anticipated, substantially restructured via the 101 million return of cash to shareholders, and the average cost of debt was further reduced to 6.3% through the unwinding of swaps and the redemptions of principally high-coupon debenture stock.
Board John Whiteley and Tony Graham will be retiring from the Board on 31 July and at the Annual General Meeting respectively.
John has been Finance Director for ten years and, in the last five in particular, has played a vital role in the capital restructuring of the Group, whilst Tony has provided wisdom and sound property advice during his seven years on the Board.
I thank them both for the significant part they have played in the evolution of the Company and wish them all the best for the future.
Phillip Rose, whose skills and experience in the property industry are well known, became a non-executive director on 11 April.
General This is the first year of operation for the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance, and I am pleased to report that, apart from one or two fide minimis administrative exceptions, we complied with the Code throughout the year.
Twelve months ago I raised two important issues which rested with the Government.
In principle, they have decided that there should be no intervention in the current leasing system and, for the time being, they will not be legislating against upward only rent reviews.
Market forces should be allowed to prevail and we believe that a sensible conclusion has been reached.
Additionally, the precise regime for the establishment of a UK real estate investment trust REIT has been further delayed, and we shall have to wait and look at the small print before we decide whether such a vehicle would bring material benefits to your Company.
This is the last time that shareholders will be able to read the accounts in a traditional form.
From hereon, including the next interims, a European directive requires companies to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards: this will involve a radical reshaping of the way in which the Groups activities are reported, even though the fundamentals of our business will not have changed.
I fear that, initially, cold towels will be the order of the day but we will be providing a reconciliation statement in order to facilitate an understanding of the changes.
Outlook In the last five years Great Portland Estates has undergone a radical transformation.
Today, we are a focused central London property company, and the young management team under Toby Courtauld is brimming with enthusiasm and ideas to drive the business forward.
I am confident that our pipeline of developments, coupled with the continued active management of the portfolio, will create further value and provide attractive returns for shareholders.
Richard Peskin Chairman 6 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES ANNUAL REPORT 2005 16 21 Sackville Street, W1 20,000 sq ft refurbishment due for completion in early 2006
