1.0 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement It is with pleasure that I can report an outstanding performance by Land Securities this year, distinguished by the securing of additional income from major new contracts across all our businesses.
We are recommending a 20.8% increase in the final dividend to 32.85p making a total for the year of 43.25p, up 16.6% on last year.
This is a higher level of growth than usual and reflects our exceptional performance this year.
The Groups continued achievements demonstrate the soundness of our strategy and its successful implementation by our people.
It has been a busy year across the entire Group.
The highlights were: The focusing of the business on three sectors where we have market-leading positions, namely retail, London offices and property outsourcing The Groups exit from the industrial property market through an exchange of our industrial properties for a retail portfolio from Slough Estates PLC.
The combined value of the properties exchanged was 709m The implementation of a highly successful 3.2bn debt restructuring, which resulted in an improved AA credit rating, a decrease in our future cost of debt and the provision of a longPeter G Birch CBE Chairman term, flexible funding structure for the business.
The costs associated with this transaction are accounted for as an exceptional charge The valuation uplift of 10.3% in the combined portfolio which includes our share of the value of properties owned by joint ventures to 9.4bn, demonstrating our continued success Full year dividend at creating value from our retail and London portfolios The rise of 9.7% in adjusted diluted net assets per share to 1460p per share or of 17.4% to 43.25p 1562p, if the post-tax exceptional impact of our debt refinancing is ignored.
Basic net assets per share were 1419p The growth of adjusted earnings per share by 43.5% reflecting higher revenue profits of 401.1m 2004: 309.2m.
We report a loss per share of 7.69p.
This is calculated on results after tax which include the exceptional refinancing charge this year Up 16.6% The sale of 763.1m of property from the investment portfolio, which generated profits in recognition of the outstanding results of 82.4m in excess of carrying values, as well as the purchase of 786.1m of property, this year and demonstrating our thereby continuing the progress we are making to recycle capital into higher growth confidence in the future activities.
This includes the values of the property swap with Slough Estates Three new property outsourcing contracts won by Land Securities Trillium as well as a significant contribution to the Groups profits from existing contracts and the receipt of 321.5m as a result of the sale of Media Village, White City 2 The agreement of contracts to occupy 101,500m of offices in our London development programme including lettings at Cardinal Place, SW1: New Street Square, EC4: Gresham 2 Street, EC2: Empress State, SW6: and a further 46,400m relating to the forward sale of Bankside1, SE1 2 The completion of 43,400m of retail development lettings including the letting of anchor stores to House of Fraser for the Bristol Alliance and to Debenhams in Exeter The announcement, since the year end, of a recommended cash offer to acquire Tops Estates PLC, which owns seven shopping centres, for an enterprise value of 517.2m, including the assumption of 207.3m of Tops Estates debt.
12 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 1.0 Chairmans Statement continued Results Revenue profit Before moving on to comment in more detail on the results, I thought it would be helpful to summarise the effect of the debt restructuring that we carried out last November, full details of 401.1m which are contained in the Operating and Financial Review.
In essence, we replaced our existing 1.8bn of secured and unsecured bond debt, at an average interest rate of 8.5%, with 2.3bn of new secured debt, at an average interest rate of 5.35%.
This will initially reduce our future cash interest charge by some 25m per annum.
As a result, in the year we have had to account for the one-off increase in the nominal value of the new debt together with associated costs Up 29.7% through the profit and loss account as a 682.1m exceptional charge.
While the effect of this demonstrating a busy year and strong accounting treatment is apparent on both the profit and loss account and our net asset value, performance across the business it was very largely a non-cash item and we are therefore reporting our numbers on a preand post-exceptional basis.
The exceptional nature of this charge is demonstrated by our decision to increase the dividend substantially this year.
Pre-tax profits excluding the exceptional refinancing costs grew by 41.1% to 526.3m 2004: Adjusted diluted net assets per share 373.1m.
The exceptional charge, however, results in this becoming a pre-tax loss of 155.8m.
Revenue profits, our measure of underlying pre-tax profits, increased by 29.7% to 401.1m from 1460p 309.2m mainly as a result of: Interest savings of 10.3m over part of the year as a result of the debt refinancing A strong performance from Land Securities Trillium, with the extended DWP contract fully profitable and a strong contribution from Telereal which included a 17.6m 2004: 5.6m Up 9.7% contribution from sales of trading properties reflecting the strong growth in the Construction profits of 11.6m mainly from our contract to develop Bankside1, SE1.
value of our portfolio Adjusted earnings per share, calculated on pre-tax revenue profits, were 43.5% higher at 68.67p per share 2004: 47.86p per share.
The wholly-owned investment portfolio rose in value by 10.7% to 8.8bn, with the combined portfolio including our share of joint ventures showing a 10.3% increase to 9.4bn.
The majority of our assets are now split between retail and London offices at 56.9% and 38.3% respectively combined portfolio.
Adjusted diluted net assets per share rose by 9.7% to 1460p per share or by 17.4% to 1562p, if the post-tax exceptional impact of our debt refinancing is ignored.
In recognition of the outstanding results this year and our confidence in the future of the business, we are recommending a final dividend of 32.85p per share 2004: 27.2p, making a total distribution for the year of 43.25p 2004: 37.1p, a 16.6% increase on 2004.
Following this one-off increase, we will revert to our historic pattern of steady dividend growth from this new base.
At the Interim Results, we stated our intention to distribute more equally our dividend payments.
In future we will aim to pay around 40% as an interim dividend payment with the balance making up the final dividend.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 12 July 2005, the dividend will be paid on 25 July 2005 to shareholders on the register on 24 June 2005.
The dividends paid and proposed are covered 1.6 times by adjusted earnings 2004: 1.3 times.
Real Estate Investment Trusts and Lease Reform Land Securities Annual Report 2005 13 1.0 Chairmans Statement continued The Government has stated that, subject to agreeing the outstanding issues on Real Estate Investments Trusts REITs as detailed in its most recent consultation document, it would seek to introduce the relevant legislation with the 2006 Finance Bill.
The structure now proposed appears to be more flexible but we will have to wait for full details of legislation, including the Governments proposed conversion charge, before we can assess whether conversion will be in the best interests of shareholders.
We were pleased that, for the time being, the Government has decided not to introduce legislation to prohibit upward only rent reviews in lease contracts.
We believe that the industry has made great strides to introduce a range of more flexible leasing options and we continue to work with the British Property Federation BPF and major landlords to ensure that we deliver a satisfactory solution for our customers and the industry.
To this end we have recently become a signatory to the BPF declaration on sub-letting, which we believe is a step towards creating a more flexible sub-letting environment for tenants.
Acquisition of Tops Estates PLC On 6 May 2005, we announced that we had reached agreement with the Board of Tops Estates PLC in respect to the terms of recommended offers for the ordinary shares in and convertible unsecured loan stock of Tops Estates.
The offers represent an enterprise value for Tops Estates of approximately 517.2m, including net debt at 30 September 2004 of approximately 207.3m.
Since announcing the offer, we had purchased, by 4.30pm on Friday 13 May, 29.8% of the shares and 46.7% of the convertible unsecured loan stock in the market which, when combined with the irrevocable undertakings made by Tops Estates management, represent 72.9% of the fullydiluted share capital of the company.
Tops Estates is a specialist investor in town and city centre shopping centres and its property 2 portfolio comprises shopping centres with a total gross area of approximately 230,000m in seven locations: Corby Town Centre and Oasis Retail Park : Harrogate Victoria Shopping Centre : Leeds Shopping Plaza and City Exchange Offices : Liverpool Clayton Square Shopping Centre : London West 12 Shopping and Leisure Centre at Shepherds Bush : Stafford Guildhall Shopping Centre and Gaolgate Place Shopping Centre : and Worcester Cathedral Plaza.
This portfolio was independently valued as at 31 March 2005 at 566.7m, based on current annual net rental income of 30.4m and current estimated annual net rental value of 40.7m.
The acquisition of Tops Estates will strengthen further Land Securities position in the retail sector and the shopping centres being acquired offer Land Securities asset management and development opportunities to create value.
In particular, the Clayton Square Shopping Centre consolidates Land Securities position in Liverpool: Tops Estates sites in Corby provide a shortand long-term development opportunity: and the properties in Leeds provide Land Securities with an entry into one of the top 10 city centre retail markets in the UK.
Land Securities will also continue to deliver the asset management programmes already initiated in Stafford, Harrogate, Worcester and Shepherds Bush.
14 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 1.0 Chairmans Statement continued Board and senior management changes As reported at the half year Francis Salway, who joined the Company in 2000, assumed the role of Group Chief Executive at the Annual General Meeting on 14 July 2004, succeeding Ian Henderson who retired on that date.
We would like to reiterate our thanks to Ian for his outstanding contribution over the past 30 years.
Mark Collins, previously Chief Executive Portfolio Management, was appointed Chief Operating Officer and now has responsibility for new business development, Group operations and Urban Community Development including projects such as Kent Thameside.
Mike Hussey assumed the position of Managing Director, London Portfolio and was appointed to the Board in September.
Richard Akers was promoted to the role of Managing Director, Retail and we announced his appointment to the Board on 17 May 2005.
During the year we were pleased to appoint Bo Lerenius, Group Chief Executive of Associated British Ports Holdings PLC, and Alison Carnwath to the Board as non-executive directors.
Our people The Group has changed substantially over the last few years.
We have continued to implement our new strategy and been careful to ensure we have the skills and resources needed to sustain our success.
I would like to offer my thanks and appreciation for the hard work and commitment shown by everyone in the Group over the last year.
Their achievements speak for themselves.
Outlook Sustained demand from investors for commercial property continues to establish it as a mainstream asset class.
This position may be further enhanced by the introduction of REITs which, by removing tax inequalities, may bolster the attractiveness of quoted real estate and other indirect investment vehicles.
Over the year investor demand has driven property yields down further, which has increased capital values.
However, we believe that this trend has now largely run its course with the result that future growth in asset value will be more dependent on rental growth and success in securing lettings.
In this environment of lower yields, we believe that our development and asset management skills, together with our ability to grow our outsourcing business, will be key to the creation of attractive returns for our shareholders.
The London office market is showing evidence of a recovery as occupier demand improves, particularly in the West End.
While the operating environment for retailers is more challenging, we believe the retail property market should be resilient for as long as unemployment levels remain low and earnings remain stable.
The property outsourcing market continues to expand as occupiers recognise its core attractions of price certainty, risk transfer and customer service.
Against this market background, we have moved the business into a position of strength from which it will benefit from these conditions.
We have positioned the retail portfolio to concentrate primarily on more dominant assets: established a substantial London office development pipeline and engineered the London portfolio to benefit from rental growth.
We have also created a market-leading position in property outsourcing.
As demonstrated by the substantial increase in this years dividend, we remain confident in the future.
