Aegis R&A 2005 Review 1-29 12 4 06 6:55 am Page 4 Aegis Annual Report 2005 Letter to shareholders 2005 was a year of good progress and record execution in an increasingly complex media results for Aegis.
new staff into the group, a new chief executive Alongside these market changes, we continued and two further non-executive directors.
to develop our offering to clients.
Aegis today We sustained our strong performance of recent offers an ever greater breadth of marketing years.
We grew total revenue by 16.5% to services in over 60 countries.
At 7.2%, our organic revenue growth 29 businesses in the year, extending the was at the very top of our industry group, and geographic coverage of both our media and our underlying pre-tax profit was ahead 17.1% research businesses, and strengthening our on a comparable UK GAAP basis.
We grew offer into new areas, such as digital creative in earnings per share by 10.9%, and raised the media and retail scan data in research.
total dividends by 13.8% to 1.65p per share.
Before committing, we put each of our We traded against a respectable backdrop for acquisitions through a rigorous review process.
While some Its important that we know its people and of the major economies of Western Europe services will fit well with our existing remained challenging, we saw some early signs businesses, as well as establishing the potential of recovery towards the end of the year.
The US for further roll-out and ensuring it meets our market was healthy throughout the year, and criteria for financial returns.
The investment we the emerging markets of Asia and Central have made in digital media services, todays Europe continued their rapid growth.
fastest growing communications channel, has stood us in particularly good stead.
Already we At the same time, the changes in our industry Investment in new media services and research produced record revenue and profits have seen a significant contribution from continued to accelerate.
The adoption of new digital media services to our top line growth entertainment and information technologies and our margins, and this is set to continue.
reached critical mass in many parts of the world, with consumer choice about how, when The larger part played in brand and where to be entertained growing by the communications by digital, out-of-home, data, day.
That choice helps underpin demand for events, sponsorship and brand activation is our services, driving our clients need for making planning and execution ever more insight, strategic advice, planning and complex.
The need for innovation in research is 4 Aegis R&A 2005 Review 1-29 12 4 06 6:55 am Page 5 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts equally strong, driven by technology, class.
And in Synovate, we have the worlds globalisation and new areas of specialism.
fastest growing global research business, Our people are leading these changes in the outpacing the wider market research industry market with originality, intelligence and by almost two times.
dedication, and for this every one of them All these attributes underpin our positive deserves our thanks.
2006 has got off to a good start, As the worlds leading independent media and we are confident in our outlook.
business, we are unencumbered by the legacy We will continue to invest in the development ways of thinking and working that come from a of our business, to grow through winning heritage in making TV commercials.
With digital new clients and serving existing ones, media representing some 15% of our media and to improve our profitability further in revenues around three times higher than the the year ahead.
overall industry our media business is worldLord Sharman, Chairman Robert Lerwill, Group CEO 5
