In 2005, Computacenters revenues declined to 2.29 billion CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT 2004: 2.41 billion and profit before tax fell 49.9% to 34.0 million 2004: 67.9 million.
Most of the profit decline is attributable to reduced vendor rebates.
Some encouragement can be taken from the fact that following a particularly difficult first half, the Groups performance improved considerably as the year progressed.
Profit before tax increased in the second half to 25.8 million from 8.2 million in the first half, on revenues that were broadly unchanged.
The balance sheet remained strong.
Even with an increased requirement for working capital due to an upsurge in trading at the year-end, the Group ended the year with net funds of 100.4 million 2004: 41.0 million after the adoption of IAS 32 and 39.
The Groups cash resources exceed its requirements and the Board has decided to return 75 million to shareholders in the second quarter of 2006, on the assumption that various tax matters can be satisfactorily resolved within this timeframe.
The Board intends to return further cash to shareholders in the years ahead, subject to retaining sufficient resources in the company to take advantage of opportunities to advance the strategic repositioning of Computacenter through acquisition.
The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 5.0p per share, bringing the total dividend for 2005 to 7.5p 2004: 7.5p.
It is the Board's intention to maintain this dividend until earnings have risen sufficiently to bring the level of cover to within the new target range of 2-2.5x, which is now considered appropriate by the Board.
The final dividend will be paid on 30 May 2006 to shareholders on the register as at 5 May 2006.
Most of the profit decline is attributable to the Groups UK business, where operating profit fell to 32.1 million, from 63.8 million in the previous year.
Reduced vendor rebates accounted for 27.0 million of this fall, and product margins were under pressure throughout the year.
Gross profit from the Product Division fell by 35.2 million compared to 2004.
The performance of the Services Division was more encouraging: although gross profit was broadly unchanged, revenues grew modestly and the contract base increased 4.6% to 177.1 million.
Computacenters product business faces considerable challenges, including falling prices, reducing margins and the impact of vendors selling commodity products direct to end users, particularly in the large corporate market.
In response, some major steps have been taken to address Computacenters UK strategic positioning.
In my statement accompanying the Interim Results, I drew attention to these: Across the Group, trading improved as the year progressed.
The Groups cash resources exceed its requirements and the Board has decided to return 75 million to shareholders.
COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 04 Re-engineering our product business to deliver lower cost in the first half of the year, when purchases from a major account management and sales: customer were temporarily curtailed.
A new management team Building a sizeable presence in the medium-sized has been in place for over a year and Computacenter France business segment: is now being run on a much more disciplined basis: in Creating a specialist software business unit to increase our particular, the quality of financial control in the business has share of this market: been considerably enhanced.
Efforts to align better the cost Broadening the depth and range of our technical services base of the business with its revenue potential will continue in activities: the future.
Capturing greater value from the superior scale of our engineering and maintenance activities, by sharing more In November 2005, it was announced that an independent resource across our customer base: committee of the Board had been formed to consider a Seeking to accelerate the growth of our Managed Services potential offer for the Company from a group led by Peter business.
Ogden, a major shareholder and Non Executive Director.
No formal offer was made to the committee and, following the Collectively, these strategic initiatives are intended to stronger trading performance in December, the approach was reposition Computacenter in its core markets and restore withdrawn.
The members of this group intend to participate long-term earnings growth.
Their implementation has equally with other shareholders in the return of cash planned required significant changes to our UK business model for later this year.
and organisational structure, and management deserves considerable credit for its handling of a complex and farTrading activity in the first two months of 2006 has been below reaching reorganisation during the course of the year.
However, in recent years, our sales have become increasingly weighted towards the end of Much remains to be done to realise the benefits of the new each quarter, such that trading in the early weeks of the strategy: in particular, some key IT systems necessary to quarter now provides a less reliable indicator of performance support the new organisation will only be introduced through for the period as a whole.
Whilst it is too soon to comment on the impact of these initiatives, management is optimistic that the There is no denying that 2005 was a difficult year for changes will deliver the anticipated benefits, and the stronger Computacenter, and that the financial performance of the second-half trading in 2005 may be an early indicator of this.
But the year was not without its The challenges, however, should not be underestimated.
Significant steps were taken in the UK to create an organisation that is considerably better equipped Difficult market conditions persisted in Germany, putting to respond to the challenges posed by the continuing both product and service margins under pressure throughout commoditisation of IT.
The long-running dispute in Germany the year.
Against a 5.7% decline in revenues to 618.2 million with GE was brought to a satisfactory resolution, and 2004: 655.5 million, the operating profit in Computacenter management is now free of this particular distraction.
And Germany fell to 5.0 million 2004: 9.0 million.
But, as in the across the Group, trading improved as the year progressed, UK, trading improved considerably as the year progressed: and was particularly strong at the year-end.
the operating profit of 6.5 million in the second half was a substantial improvement on the first-half loss of 1.5 million, Whilst much remains to be done to improve Computacenters and similar to the comparable period in the previous year profitability, there is a sense of optimism within the company 2004: 6.5 million.
This second-half improvement is that we are getting back on the right track.
My appreciation attributable to both the usual seasonal factors in the market and thanks go to the employees of Computacenter for their and the German management becoming more familiar with outstanding commitment, energy and hard work.
the new organisation structure introduced at the start of the year.
It also reflects some operational improvements to a particularly problematical services contract.
The long-standing problems at Computacenter France continued during 2005, with losses deepening to 9.3 million 2004: 6.7 million on revenues of 295.8 million RON SANDLER 2004: 300.4 million.
Performance was particularly poor CHAIRMAN Major steps were taken to address Computacenters UK strategic positioning.
Whilst it is too soon to comment on the impact of these initiatives, management is optimistic that the changes will deliver the anticipated benefits.
ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 05
