Shaftesbury FRONT 05. qxd 8 12 05 16:02 Page 8 Our results this year demonstrate once again the Disposals of non-core investment properties during Our property portfolio has been valued at 30th benefits of our clearly defined strategy of long the year produced a surplus over book value of September 2005 at 997.6 million, resulting in a term investment combined with enterprising 4.2 million 2004 - 0.6 million.
Exceptional costs revaluation surplus of 130.2 million, equivalent to an estate management.
in the year comprised the book loss of 3.8 million overall 15.1% uplift.
Initial yields applied to on the purchase of 12.4 million of debenture stock commercial uses have again moved in our favour by Shareholders funds at 30th September 2005 totalled and 0.3 million incurred in restructuring the Groups about 0.75% over the year 2004 - 0.5% reflecting 600.2 million, equivalent to a diluted net asset value activities into four village subsidiaries to provide both the strength of investment demand for property per share of 4.53.
This compares with shareholders greater flexibility.
Including these items, this years assets, particularly those located in the West End, funds of 464.6 million and a diluted net asset value profit on ordinary activities before taxation amounted and a stable outlook for interest rates.
Future per share of 3.51 at the previous year end.
This to 14.7 million compared with 15.3 million last year.
general trends in yields, which have a major represents an increase of 1.02 per share, an uplift impact on valuations, are influenced by numerous of 29.1% over the year.
After provision for current and deferred taxation factors and it is impossible to predict whether the of 2.9 million 2004 - 4.5 million, profit on favourable movements seen over the last two years Profit on ordinary activities before taxation adjusted ordinary activities amounted to 11.8 million will be maintained.
to exclude exceptional costs and asset disposals 2004 - 10.8 million.
for the year ended 30th September 2005 amounted It is clear that the value of our portfolio also benefits to 14.5 million, compared with 14.7 million in 2004.
Your Directors are pleased to recommend an both from its rental growth potential as well as our increased final dividend of 3.30p per share 2004 - approach to estate management.
Our valuers have The Central London terrorist attacks in July 2005 2.90p.
Together with the interim dividend of 1.70p estimated that the rental value of our portfolio at the led to sharply reduced trading for our West End per share, this will bring the total distribution for year end at 60.6 million per annum, compared with retail and restaurant tenants in the final quarter of the year to 5.00p per share 2004 - 4.413p, an current gross income at that date of 49.8 million.
However, occupier demand for increase of 13.3%.
The Boards policy is to maintain those properties held throughout the year, we have these uses has remained firm throughout our a level of distribution which reflects our expectation seen a 5% increase in total estimated rental value as villages and we are securing lettings both for of long term growth in funds generated from the tenant demand in our villages has established new current vacant properties and our new schemes.
Groups operations after making appropriate provision rental levels and our estate management and for investment to up-grade and enhance its portfolio.
refurbishment schemes have increased the income potential of our assets.
We expect these factors, particularly tenant demand for our shops and restaurants, will continue to deliver new levels of rental value.
Chairmans statement 08 Shaftesbury FRONT 05. qxd 8 12 05 16:02 Page 9 Our valuers have again commented in their valuation In November 2005 we announced that we had entered We continually review our portfolio to ensure that we report on the concentration of a high proportion of into a 50 50 joint venture with the Mercers Company.
retain only those properties which are part of our our properties in adjacent or adjoining locations in This was approved by shareholders at an long term investment strategy.
During the year we our principal villages and the dominance of retail and Extraordinary General meeting on 29th November made two disposals of assets in Covent Garden restaurant uses.
They advise that, as a consequence 2005.
Our contribution to the joint venture of which achieved net proceeds of 15.3 million and of these unusual factors, our portfolio as a whole property assets of 38.8 million and cash of 42.3 surpluses over book value of 4.2 million.
In November or in parts may have a value greater than that million has further increased our investment in 2005 we sold for 45.0 million National Magazine currently included in our financial statements.
Combining our property assets House in Carnaby, a predominately office investment with those of the Mercers Company will allow the of 55,000 sq.
ft. with eleven flats above, whilst At the year end our investments included 770 phased regeneration of a site of almost two acres, retaining a long leasehold interest in the seven shops commercial tenants located in three main districts located at the corner of Long Acre and Upper St. fronting Carnaby Street and Broadwick Street.
namely, Carnaby, Covent Garden and Chinatown.
We expect to create additional retail Shops and restaurants account for 71%, offices Our joint venture and other purchases during the and leisure space with new pedestrian routes through 23% and residential 6% of the overall value.
year mark a significant investment in Covent Garden, the site and to improve office and residential where we see excellent opportunities to enhance accommodation.
This project should also benefit Whilst the supply of suitable new investments are income and value.
The growth in the reversionary our neighbouring investments in Seven Dials.
always limited in the sought-after central locations potential of our portfolio and the disposals we have in which we choose to specialise, we have been made confirm the benefits of our pro-active successful during the year in purchasing properties management of the portfolio and underline our in Carnaby, Covent Garden and Charlotte Street confidence in your Companys future prospects.
We are continuing to find new investment opportunities which complement our P John Manser current villages and offer the potential for income Chairman and capital growth.
