Chairmans statement We have achieved excellent The headline figures are that in the 12-month South San Francisco, and the exercise by returns for shareholders in 2005. period, the adjusted diluted net asset value Amgen of an option for the construction of Significant progress has also been of our property portfolio increased per share an 8,600 sq.
m. office and laboratory facility, made in positioning the Company by 22 per cent to 680 pence while adjusted also in South San Francisco.
to meet the requirements of its diluted earnings per share were at 24.3 pence.
long-term strategy and, as a A resolution will be put in front of the Annual Just as important as acquisitions are result, I believe that the prospects General Meeting that, if approved, would lettings and sales.
Highlights of our leasing for the future are as exciting now increase the total dividend for the year by programme included record UK lettings as they have been at any time 9.4 per cent over that paid in 2004. of 224,000 sq.
m. in the Companys existence.
Paul Orchard-Lisle Our expertise and focus is the creation, Looking forward, there is considerable Chairman investment and management of good quality, potential to maximise the returns from the flexible business space in the most soughtcurrent portfolio while also moving ahead with after trading locations.
In pursuit of those our expansion programme.
It is intrinsic that objectives during the year, we have acquired a property company such as ours takes its assets in the UK, Continental Europe and decisions ahead of the occupational market North America while at the same time selling and particularly invests in areas of potential properties that we could not see performing growth.
Continental Europe will offer us many in the future at the levels we require.
such opportunities and is likely to Altogether, during 2005 we acquired more be a significant area for new investment than 200 ha of land.
Other notable acquisitions by Slough Estates in the immediate future.
were at Heywood, Manchester, and Dunstable in the UK.
Our drive to expand in Continental I see the introduction of REITs Real Estate Europe led to our acquisition of a controlling Investment Trusts as a potentially attractive interest in the very successful Mainland vehicle for investors, but they do not change property development company in the the underlying requirement for skilled and Netherlands alongside the purchase of imaginative managers.
It would be foolish investment and development properties in to believe that conversion into a REIT alone Germany and the acquisition of two important necessarily creates better long-term new sites around Paris.
In the US we have performance.
The need to own the right continued our very successful development assets and to have the right management programme in California, where highlights team in place will continue.
It is important to included the start of construction on note that at the time of writing, key aspects Genentechs 191.3 million campus in of the REITs structure are not yet known.
04 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 Within the Company, and indeed for many Kingston who has held that job for 10 years.
Dividends per share people outside the Company, the second part Mr Kingston will continue on the Board as pence of 2005 was over-shadowed by the illness and Chairman, Continental Europe.
I pay tribute then tragically the death of Sir Nigel Mobbs.
to Dick Kingstons achievements while he was Many people have written and spoken about our Finance Director.
His steadying influence him in terms far more eloquent than mine.
and meticulous attention to detail as well as Even so I place on record our enormous debt his deep understanding of our business have to him for what he achieved at Slough Estates been a strength to the Company.
in laying the foundations for the growth that we are now enjoying.
His leadership, his ability Likewise, I acknowledge the unfailing hard and his decisiveness created a wonderful work and perseverance of our staff in each working atmosphere within the Company and country in which we are represented and his companionship was invariably exhilarating.
The directors and the Finding his eventual long-term successor will shareholders alike are fortunate to have not be an easy matter, but a search is in hand.
At the Annual General Meeting sadly we shall Looking forward, it is clear that there will be bid farewell to Lord MacGregor of Pulham many significant developments in the next Market who has been a director of the Company few months.
Our task is to use the assets, for eleven years.
His ready grasp of the main capabilities and reputation of the Company issues confronting us, his chairmanship of our to enhance its performance to the benefit Audit Committee and his contribution to our of both shareholders and other stakeholders.
debates in the boardroom have been I believe that within the constraints of the exemplary.
We shall miss him greatly.
A new economy and the market we are superbly arrival on the Board is Mr Thom Wernink, positioned to do so.
a Dutch citizen who until recently was Chairman of the European Public Real Estate Association.
As such he has a well-established Paul Orchard-Lisle reputation as one of the leading real estate Chairman experts in Continental Europe and I am confident that he will add materially to our discussions.
We also welcome onto the Board David Sleath who became our Finance Director on 1 January, 2006 replacing Dick Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 05 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 13.1p 14.0p 15.0p 16.0p 17.5p
