06 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Driving our business forward Delivering shareholder value Total shareholder return TSR of 34% per annum compound over the last five years.
Chairmans statement while seeking opportunities to add value The Group has once again delivered In recognition of this progress, your Board to our properties by refurbishment, strong growth in value for shareholders, resolved during the year to sub-divide change of use and redevelopment with net asset value NAV per share the Companys shares.
Since the Groups Extraordinary General Meeting held the value of the Groups portfolio to our flotation in 1993, NAV per share has on 16 March 2005 a bonus issue of target of 1 billion by September 2008 risen 7.02 times and, based on the share 9 shares per share held was made, remains on track.
price of 2.35 on 31 March 2005, the leaving shareholders with 10 times share price has increased by 7.34 times.
Shareholders have also benefited from Results a steady increase in dividend income Your Board remains committed to driving Total rent roll increased during the year by throughout the period.
Total Shareholder consistent value for shareholders into 11.0% to 42.3m as occupancy improved.
Return TSR has been equivalent to the future with its focused strategy and Trading earnings per share growth was 34% per annum compound over the intensive management.
slower up 3.3% to 6.3p per share, mainly last five years.
due to higher interest rates.
The total Strategy value of the portfolio increased by 14.3% Your Board regularly reviews your business to 718.4m.
Net assets were up 23%, a very strong performance despite the and its market.
It believes the service the Chancellors recent reversal of stamp Group provides flexible, affordable duty exemption in disadvantaged areas accommodation to small and medium which had a 14.3m adverse impact.
sized enterprises SMEs remains This reflects the outcome of our own compelling.
Our focus on London is intensive management efforts, as well particularly relevant as its population is growing, in numbers and wealth, at a as the continuing improvement in yields faster rate than the rest of the UK.
SMEs in the property market.
However, this yield are similarly increasing, putting ever improvement has compressed the margin greater pressure on space to work and over finance costs, making it harder to live.
So our strategy of servicing the SME purchase new sites on attractive terms.
market in London and the South East, Even so, we have made over 40m of Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 07 Driving our business forward Workspace Group one year relative share price performance Key: 250 Share price Workspace FTSE Small Cap 200 FTSE Real Estate FTSE 250 150 FTSE All Share 100 IPD comparisons Workspace return IPD return 50 Bars Difference 0 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Workspace Group five year relative share price performance IPD comparisons % 30 250 25 200 20 150 15 100 10 50 5 0 0 Apr 00 Apr 01 Apr 02 Apr 03 Apr 04 Apr 05 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 of Alan Cherry and the appointment of shareholders.
We continue to monitor acquisitions where we believe our John Bywater.
Our staff are to be thanked closely the possibility of UK legislation management can create real for yet another set of excellent results.
on Real Estate Investment Trusts shareholder value.
Our business model would in many ways be attractive in a REIT but Once again, the Company has recorded a Current trading and prospects we await details of any legislation and good performance when compared with Like-for-like occupancy is now back over will assess the implications at that time.
the Investment Property Databank IPD 90% with an average rent of 9.29 per sq ft indices, with first and top percentile for a portfolio, two thirds of which is within ranking over 5 and 10 year periods.
six miles of Central London.
We believe Dividend that conditions are now more favourable The Board recommends a final dividend People and Community for rental increases.
However, a number payment of 2.28p per share making Our business is management intensive of properties remain under development 3.41p for the year, an increase of 10% for long term value growth, and so short and so our success is dependent on the over last year and making 13.1% p. a. term growth in the total rent roll will be efforts of our staff, who are key compound growth over 10 years.
This tempered until they are fully refurbished stakeholders.
We play an important role strong dividend growth is consistent and well occupied.
Once completed, these in our communities in the regeneration with the continuing overall progress projects will contribute to the ongoing of your Company.
of economic, cultural and social life growth of the business.
through the very nature of our business.
We also encourage and support our customers, suppliers and staff to play Since the year end there has been further their own roles in enhancing our yield compression in the market as new communities.
In recognition of this, funds seek to invest in property.
This has our reporting on these areas has been a positive short term impact on value expanded in this years report.
but makes purchasing on attractive terms increasingly challenging.
However, There have been no further board we are continuing to source good changes following those referred to in opportunities and will only invest where Tony Hales Chairman my last report, namely the retirement we can create long term value for our 10 June 2005
