Chairmans statement During the past year, significant value creation has been achieved by your company, earnings per share rose from $0.48 to $0.62 and market capitalisation passed the billion pound mark.
2005 has proved yet another remarkable year customers before year end.
Our sales grew impressively by 92% to CSRs skill base with extensive wireless software $486.5 million, earnings per share rose from $0.48 know-how.
Among its assets is a substantial technical to $0.62, and our market capitalisation passed the development centre in India, giving us access to billion pound mark.
highly cost effective skills and resources for our future Such results do not come easily: they have technology and product development.
been won by excellent product and application As a result of this corporate development and knowledge, good organisation and systems ERP our own organic growth, CSR has evolved into a is now implemented across most of the company substantial company with almost 700 staff, and 11 and hard work by our staff and partners alike locations across the world.
combined, of course, with good executive leadership.
There have been a number of changes to the Many events occur throughout a year which can Board in the past year.
John Hodgson who has disrupt progress.
Last year we had a major challenge: led CSR for the last six years indicated his wish to a fire at an assembly plant belonging to our production retire and rejoin his family in the USA.
CSR and ASE staff worked highly who joined your Board in 2004 and had served as a effectively to achieve an astonishingly quick recovery non-executive director, takes over from 1 March for which I congratulate them.
John, having been a Senior Vice President of for positive challenges, notably CSRs first acquisitions.
Texas Instruments Inc responsible for TIs $5 billion Clarity Technologies, Inc. was acquired in March and DSP digital signal processor and Wireless businesses, this was followed by the acquisition of the software in addition to other senior roles in the industry, brings business of UbiNetics in August.
Clarity Technologies a profound knowledge of semiconductor business provides innovative software to filter out background development.
He will have a significant impact on noise and improve the quality of audio reception.
your companys future progress and I look forward The technology has been integrated extremely quickly to working with him.
into our product offering and was available to 4 Changing the way the world connects Mike Shone, chairman of CSR up to the IPO and application markets so effectively.
To all these subsequently a non-executive director, retired from stakeholders, our thanks for their patronage, support the Board as agreed in March 2005.
we brought the non-executive element of your And finally, I must express the Boards deep Board back up to strength with the appointment of appreciation to all our staff, be they in Cambridge, Anthony Carlisle, who has spent his career in Asia, Europe, or the USA who respond so well to marketing and communications and who has an the dynamics of the business with such dedication.
extensive knowledge of the mobile telephony market.
In particular, I must single out John Hodgson who Progress towards good corporate governance retired in February 2006.
He has done so much for has also been made by your Board.
CSR over the last six years that it is hard to do it justice Because of my personal experience with in a few words.
His energy, enthusiasm, diligence public companies, I became chairman of the and above all leadership skills deserve the greatest Remuneration Committee at the time of the IPO, praise.
Thank you John, and enjoy the future.
I have now relinquished this role in favour of one of our independent nonexecutive directors, Ron Mackintosh.
We have also undertaken our first Board Effectiveness review which shows that the Board has matured rapidly and is working together effectively.
John Whybrow During the past year significant value creation Chairman has been achieved by your company.
This is a consequence not only of our own actions, but also those of our manufacturing partners, our suppliers and our energetic customers who develop the CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 5
