4561 DC pp ifc-7 lores 13 6 05 10:18 AM Page 3 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 3 Chairmans statement Dairy Crest has delivered a solid believe that this is beneficial both to the performance in the year ended March Group and our milk producers in 2005 despite the competitive retail planning for the future.
environment with reported adjusted profit The Board is recommending an before taxation of 84.2 million on increase in the final dividend of 7% to turnover of 1.35 billion and adjusted 14.3 pence per share.
This together with earnings per share of 49.3 pence.
the interim dividend of 5.9 pence makes The Groups strategy continues to be a total dividend for the year of to focus on the development of profitable 20.2 pence per share, an increase of branded and added value dairy products 7%.
The Board remains committed to a and to invest in low cost operations to progressive dividend policy.
Our Foods business has made good Board changes progress benefiting from an encouraging As already announced, Paul Lewis will performance across our portfolio of retire as a non-executive director at the brands.
The year has seen Annual General Meeting in July after Simon Oliver unprecedented changes to the supply almost 9 years service, having previously Chairman of fresh milk to the major UK food served for 3 years as a non-executive retailers resulting in a significant impact director of Dairy Crest Limited.
I should on the future profitability of our Dairies like to thank Paul for his valuable counsel business.
We have taken actions to during his years on the Board, strengthen the strategic position of our particularly since the Groups flotation in Dairies business which leave us well 1996.
I am pleased to welcome David placed to improve its future performance Richardson, previously Finance Director albeit from a lower base.
of Whitbread PLC, who joined the Dairy The UK dairy industry must continue Crest Board as a non-executive director to take account of the potential impact of in December 2004.
I am sure that the the Common Agricultural Policy CAP Board will benefit from his extensive reforms that are currently being experience in finance and in consumer implemented.
We are active through facing industries.
Dairy UK and other industry bodies in promoting the long-term future of the UK dairy industry.
We have also strengthened our working relationship with Dairy Crest Direct, our direct milk supply association, which supplies over Simon Oliver, Chairman two thirds of our milk volumes, as we 24 May 2005 Dairy Crest has delivered a solid performance in the year ended March 2005 despite the competitive retail environment
