Chairmans statement The performance at BUT was disappointing but Looking at this years figures I am particularly we have an action plan in place to restore its pleased to see that our focus on cashflow sales and profitability.
We have appointed a new generation has once again enabled us to reduce Managing Director and new Finance Director and debt, increase our investments in future growth, we are confident they will successfully implement and declare a 10 per cent increase in the dividend.
the required financial and operational changes.
Our strong cashflow position is also helping us Highlights to grow organically by extending the successful Group turnover increased by 5.0 per cent to Darty brand and business model into attractive 3959.1 million during the period 6.5 per cent new markets.
During the first half of 2005, A satisfactory performance in constant currency.
we will open five stores in Italy and three in Switzerland.
The Chief Executives review Dear fellow shareholders Group retail profit grew by 2.0 per cent to explains these developments in more detail.
I am pleased to present the second Annual 206.7 million up 3.9 per cent in constant report for KESA Electricals since we began currency Behind all our operations KESA continues to trading as an independently listed company.
hold on to the shared vision with which we Last year I said that we had made an Profit before tax excluding exceptional items began.
That vision is to be a pan-European encouraging start against the background of and goodwill amortisation increased by 8.0 per electricals retailer that benefits from its collective a challenging economic climate and the same cent to 193.7 million.
An organisation that can leverage market trends have continued into this year.
synergies of scale across converging markets Nevertheless, we have made progress and The net interest charge was 13 million giving whilst remaining in touch with local differences achieved a satisfactory overall performance.
profit before tax and after interest of 184.2 million.
Each of our electricals businesses achieved Operating exceptional items before taxation Central to this strategy is to offer our customers year-end results in line with our expectations were 4.8 million reflecting the costs of the the latest technology products in exciting and and gained market share with both Comet and Demerger Award Plan.
enticing stores, with a customer proposition that Darty increasing retail profit.
The performance of focuses on unbeatable price, choice and service.
our other businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre and Retail operations generated cashflow of In a fast moving sector we know that constant Datart, justifies our confidence in their potential 267.9 million, which enabled net debt to be innovation is the key: in our stores, our products for further growth.
reduced by 62.3 million to 209.7 million.
Central costs of 11.2 million, up from The combined strength of the Group is further 9.8 million for the same period last year, are underpinned by the development of our ownin line with expectations and reflect the first full label brands and by an increasingly integrated year of trading as an independent company.
sourcing strategy that achieves important economies of scale.
Historically we have shared Adjusted earnings per share were 23.3 pence, a global sourcing operation with Kingfisher up 10.4 per cent.
The Board recommends a based in Hong Kong but we have recently final dividend of 8.25 pence per share, making established a dedicated electricals sourcing a total dividend for the year of 11.0 pence per organisation of our own.
share, an increase of 10 per cent.
10 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 On a more personal note, some of you may generation which will enable us to accelerate the already be aware of the departure of our investment in our existing businesses and Finance Director Martin Reavley.
I would develop the Darty brand in new growth markets.
particularly like to thank him for his exceptional dedication and hard work in handling the Finally I would like to thank everyone in the complicated issues involved in our successful Group for their tremendous hard work over the demerger, and for putting in place the financial past 12 months.
The upheaval of the demerger infrastructure required for a listed company.
We is now firmly behind us and I am pleased at how all wish Martin every success in his future role swiftly we have established the independence as First Bursar of Kings College Cambridge.
that will enable us to concentrate even more closely on our strategic goals.
I am however, pleased to welcome our new Finance Director, Simon Herrick, who succeeded Martin on 31 March 2005.
Simon joined us in March 2004 as Director of Finance and Treasury and has been working closely with Martin and David Newlands Chairman the Board to help ensure a smooth transition.
I know that Simon is keen to take on this new role during KESAs crucial formative years, and I am sure that he will help us to focus even more closely on our vision of becoming the leading specialist electricals retailer in Europe.
Outlook Looking ahead to the coming year, developments so far indicate that retail markets in 2005 will remain challenging.
Trading has been soft at Comet although more positive in France, at Darty and BUT.
We expect the retail environment in the UK to be difficult throughout the year and, despite market trends in the first two months of the year, consumer confidence in France remains subdued.
We also expect last years trend of an increasing move towards digital technology to continue and this will also affect our margin mix.
As I have mentioned, for 2005 we have an action plan in place to reverse the profit decline at BUT.
We will also continue to focus on cash Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 11
