Chairmans statement We believe a combination of immediate reward together with progressive dividend growth is a clear demonstration of our commitment to shareholder value.
Nicholas Brookes Group Results consolidation which will reduce the number of I am pleased to report an excellent full year fide La Rue shares in issue by 10 per cent, on a basis of performance in which managements focus on 9 new shares for every 10 presently held.
The payment improving operational productivity resulted in a strong of the special dividend is dependent on the approval of net cash inflow.
Another strong year in the Currency the consolidation at an Extraordinary General Meeting division, together with the benefits derived from the which will be held immediately after the Annual General reorganisation programmes across the Group, were Meeting on 28 July 2005. key features of the results.
We continue to implement our strategy of concentrating resources on our core We believe this combination of immediate reward and activities, addressing under-performing businesses and progressive dividend growth is a clear demonstration putting in place the foundations for delivering improved of our commitment to shareholder value.
productivity, competitiveness and shareholder value.
Board Changes Returns to Shareholders As previously announced, I succeeded Sir Brandon Subject to shareholders approval, the Board is Gough as non-executive Chairman after the Annual recommending an increased final dividend of 10.6p General Meeting on 22 July 2004.
Leo Quinn was per share, which will be paid on 5 August 2005 to appointed as Group Chief Executive on 31 May 2004. shareholders on the register on 8 July 2005.
Together In addition, following these changes, Michael Jeffries with the increased interim dividend paid in January became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 2005, this will give a total dividend for the year of 21 July 2004 and the Companys senior independent 15.3p, an overall increase of 7.7 per cent on last year.
Sir Jeremy Greenstock also joined the Board on 1 March 2005 The Board has also announced its intention to return as a non-executive Director.
approximately 70m to shareholders, equivalent to 38.0 pence per share, through a special dividend Outlook accompanied by a share consolidation.
The capital The Group has good visibility for first half orders, return is consistent with the Boards stated strategy to particularly in the Currency activities although as return surplus cash to shareholders.
The Board also previously anticipated we do not expect a repeat in intends to seek shareholder approval for the renewal 2005 2006 of all the favourable conditions we saw of its existing general authority to make market in Currency during 2004 2005.
We remain confident purchases of shares.
of the outlook for the year.
In order to maintain comparability with historic earnings and dividend per share and with historic share prices, The final dividend will be paid on the issued share capital before any consolidation arising the special dividend will be accompanied by a share from the special dividend.
02 fide La Rue Annual Report Chairmans statement
