CHAIRMANS STATEMENT: RESULTS AND EPS THE BOARD OF fide VERE GROUP PLC IS PLEASED Underlying Group turnover excluding the impact of disposals and exceptional items WITH THE PROGRESS MADE DURING THE YEAR was 294.9 million, up by 7.5% on 2004, ON THE DELIVERY OF THE GROUPS FOUR-PART and underlying EBITDA rose by 6.7% to 67.8 million 2004: 63.5 million.
STRATEGY LAUNCHED 18 MONTHS AGO, THE Pre-exceptional EPS rose by 9.7% to 30.68 pence 2004: 27.98 pence.
FOUNDATIONS OF WHICH ARE NOW FIRMLY IN The Group has this year also realised PLACE.
TRADING PERFORMANCE FOR THE YEAR ON significant value for shareholders through the sale and manage-back of The fide Vere AN UNDERLYING BASIS HAS BEEN ENCOURAGING.
The net proceeds of this transaction were returned to shareholders via a special dividend in March 2005.
A revaluation has been carried out on the Groups property portfolio, resulting in a net surplus of 102 million over book value.
At the year-end, had the full surplus been included in the balance sheet, net assets per share would have amounted to 786 pence.
Total EPS, including exceptional items credited to profit and loss account, was 107.26 pence.
DIVIDEND The Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.44 pence per Ordinary share payable on 17 February 2006 to shareholders on the register at 20 January 2006.
The final dividend together with the interim dividend of 4.58 pence per Ordinary share, makes a total Ordinary dividend of 14.02 pence 2004: 13.10 pence, an increase of 7%.
A special dividend of 159 pence per share was paid in March 2005.
LORD DARESBURY, CHAIRMAN CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 2004 05 THE LORD DARESBURY Non-executive Chairman 4 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BOARD I remain confident that the combined efforts Cost pressures from energy and business Since the year-end we have strengthened of our teams and the impact of our four-part rates continue to place pressure on margins.
our Board with the appointment of David strategy will continue to deliver growth for In spite of significant increases seen in 2005, Richardson, who joins as a Non-executive our shareholders.
the anticipated increases for 2006 are 1.5 Director.
I was also delighted to welcome million in fide Vere Hotels, 1.2 million in CURRENT TRADING & OUTLOOK Matthew Fearn in October 2005 as Group Village and 0.8 million in Greens.
However, During the first nine weeks of the new Finance Director and I am sure that both these increases will be partially offset by financial year like-for-like turnover at fide Vere David and Matthew will bring new insight continued progress expected on operational Hotels, excluding DVRO, increased by 2.9% to our business.
and RevPAR on the same basis grew by 4.2%.
Matthew replaces Roger Stubbs who retires Following the re at G&J Greenall the team Timeshare sales at the new Carrick site have in January.
Roger has been instrumental were back distilling within seven days, an lifted DVRO turnover by over 100%.
However, to the Groups development, particularly incredible accomplishment.
Bottling has sales conversion, having improved over since he assumed the role of Group Finance been outsourced and customer relationships August and September, turned more variable Director in 1999.
His commitment to the are being maintained on a positive footing.
in October and November such that margins Group over the last 26 years is greatly However, comparisons to last year are are under continued pressure.
appreciated and we wish him a long and meaningless and importantly our insurance happy retirement.
In Village, like-for-like sales grew by 3.4% covers loss of profit.
whilst RevPAR, driven by increased occupancy, Looking forward, we are confident that PEOPLE was ahead by 3.0%.
our reservations and revenue management The progress made this year could not Health & tness trading conditions remain strategies will drive accommodation revenue have been achieved without the best challenging with like-for-like membership ahead of the market.
Health and tness efforts of all our staff, guided by a strong down 1.6% and 1.4% in Greens and Village trading is likely to remain difficult and action management team.
It is clear that the Group respectively.
Like-for-like sales in Greens are is being taken in DVRO to ensure that we has maintained its strong position in the down on last year by 0.4%.
emerge from the December January quiet marketplace, evidenced by the results of period in a stronger position.
three benchmark industry surveys, which rank fide Vere Hotels customer loyalty as the Notwithstanding external cost pressures that highest within the industry.
We intend to are being felt across the industry, we are build on this rm foundation by investing cautiously optimistic about the outcome for further in the development of our people the year as a whole.
through the roll-out of a new customer service training programme called Shine!
which commenced in the final quarter.
TOTAL SALES CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 I 5
