Chairmans statement This has been a year of great activity and success for Diageo.
Business performance It has been a year in which we restructured our business, continued We are committed to delivering sustained financial performance and to build our brands and reported strong performance.
have once again done so in the financial year 2005.
As you will read I am proud and fortunate not only to serve on your board, elsewhere in this report, Diageo is now structured as three regional but also to represent Diageo internationally.
In the last 12 months, business units: North America, Europe and International.
We have I have met with employees, prime ministers and ambassadors, made good progress in many of our markets in each of these regions business partners and representatives of many communities and continue to address challenges where we face them.
And as our in which we operate.
These interactions are an important new structure beds down, I fully anticipate a series of benets to feed component in establishing Diageo as one of the worlds most through, including reduced costs and the widespread sharing of trusted and respected companies, and I am always pleased best practice.
to be able to further our business interests in this way.
Dividend On my journeys, I have experienced a wealth of cultures With our earnings per share before exceptional items rising to and languages.
Alongside these I have seen as many different 49.1p, the board is recommending a final dividend of 18.2p, which business challenges and solutions.
Yet one factor has remained represents a total dividend per share for the year of 29.55p.
This is constant throughout the irrepressible commitment and drive of our people.
This is in no small measure due to the power and an increase of 7% over the total dividend paid last year.
range of our brands, which help us to attract highly talented The board people to work with us.
There has been one addition to our board, the appointment as a From quiet nights in to great nights out, our brands help non-executive director of Dr Franz Humer, who brings to the board people celebrate life, every day and everywhere.
So, too, do a range of highly relevant complementary skills and experience.
They are an essential part of our brands and the I am delighted with this addition, believing our board of success of our business.
It is a real privilege to work with them.
directors offers a ne mix of skills and experience gained within In last years report, I wrote that those who lead the alcohol Diageo and at other companies.
beverage industry must be highly sensitive to the emerging In conclusion, I would like to thank all of our stakeholders for concerns of governments and academics, special interest groups their support over the past year.
Together, we face the future with and individuals.
That statement is even more true today.
Responsible drinking informs every aspect of our business.
It is the cornerstone of our commitment to all our stakeholders, including our consumers and the communities in which they live and work.
Lord Blyth of Rowington Chairman Diageo Annual Report 2005 2 Chairmans statement
