ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Groups focus for the current year was on ensuring excellent service to our clients, and on improving the depth and breadth of our market offerings.
While over the past few years we have engaged in exiting some non-core assets, this year we have undertaken some measured acquisition activity to extend our capabilities across our lines of business and consolidate our position as a leading global IT infrastructure solution provider.
In December 2004 we acquired Euricom, a Microsoft-focused consultancy business in Belgium.
In August 2005 we acquired an additional 20% shareholding in Internet Solutions, which increased our holding in this South African Internet Service Provider to 80% effective 77.91%, and in September 2005 we acquired Bellerephon, an Australian-based provider of Microsoft management and infrastructure solutions.
At 30 September 2005, the Group reflected cash and short term I am pleased to report on a year of significant progress for investments of US$417 million.
We consider it important to retain Dimension Data.
a strong positive cash position to provide a sense of stability to our customers, and to allow us to take advantage of opportunities that During the year, Dimension Data gained market share in many of continue to present themselves across our Group.
The Board is the key markets in which it operates and strengthened its global mindful of the ultimate objective of providing an acceptable cash Solutions offerings.
This was reflected in much improved operating return to shareholders and our dividend policy is under review.
We are pleased to have appointed Wendy Lucas-Bull to our Board Demand for our IT infrastructure Solutions and Services remained of Directors, as an independent non-executive director.
Wendy is a healthy, driven by positive market momentum in most sectors respected member of the South African business community with a within which the Group is positioned, and strong reception for our wealth of experience in the financial and consulting industries.
Impressive growth in revenues led to Group Board currently comprises the Chairman, four executive directors 1 operating profit of US$62 million, more than double the prior year.
and seven non-executive directors, of whom six are independent.
Credit goes to the management and staff of Dimension Data who have delivered this strongly improved operating performance and I would like to thank all of our employees around the world for continue to put in place the building blocks for future growth.
their dedication and hard work during the year.
They are the key ingredient to our continued success.
As we move into the A critical ingredient in our success remains our ability to attract new financial year, I believe that our business is in an improved and retain high quality people.
To this end, we engaged this year competitive position to benefit from what we expect to be stable in our first Group-wide employee survey to canvass the opinions of demand conditions in most of our key markets and territories.
Feedback from employees was very positive, and We will continue to apply our resources, energy and capital to employee morale in the Group continues to improve.
The survey differentiate us from our competitors, win market share, provide identified several important areas for improvement: for example, excellent service to our clients and deliver improved returns to our career development and training remain key priorities.
we also revised our employee share incentive programme, by way of implementing a Share Appreciation Rights Scheme and a Long Term Incentive Plan.
Jeremy Ord Chairman Note: 1 Before associates, goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 006 Meet Dimension Data We are a specialist IT services and solutions provider with 20 years of experience helping companies achieve business improvements through custom designed and integrated technology solutions and services.
We are industry recognised experts in networking, IP telephony, security, operating environments, messaging, data centre and storage, and contact centre technologies.
But most importantly we make technologies work together to improve business performance.
