CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In a year characterised by weakening consumer demand and challenging competition in our major markets, our executive team has, through rm anticipatory action and considerable effort, delivered a creditable performance.
Year on year profit and cash Good progress in generation have both improved and we retain a very strong balance sheet.
The Directors expanding our have recommended a 10 per cent increase in the full year dividend.
Additionally, business in Europe during the year we returned almost 100 million to shareholders through our share repurchase programme and aim to repurchase a similar amount in the current year.
We have continued to expand our store base in Europe.
We now trade in 13 countries and plan to open our first stores in Poland and Portugal.
We have recently signed a co-operation agreement with Eldorado Group, the leading electrical retailer in Russia and Ukraine, which gives us the option to purchase the business in stages.
Our ambition to remain Europes leading electrical retailer and to extend our market position depends increasingly on our ability to demonstrate the benets to the consumer of our specialist offering, comprising market leading prices, unparalleled product ranges and excellent customer service.
Offering outstanding value for money and extensive product ranges are the hallmarks of the Dixons Group and are intrinsic to our culture.
They are absolutely key to performance in every one of the countries in which we now trade and are pursued relentlessly.
The more challenging ingredient in the art of retail specialisation is the delivery of consistently high standards of customer service.
Employees who are courteous, welcoming, and Price, range and service who display unrivalled product knowledge is the combination we deliver at our best.
are the lifeblood of And, if something goes wrong, we x it quickly and in good spirit.
Our call centres our business engage effectively with the caller and our websites are conducive to internet buying.
Our Being The Best programme, which I outlined in last years statement and which has been adopted throughout the Group, is just one of several initiatives aimed at ensuring that all our people deliver to the standards of the best and that we are deserving of our customers loyalty.
The Group is now truly European in retailing terms and international in its buying.
The transfer of staff and the sharing of best practice between Group companies continues to gather momentum, illustrated by over 200 current staff secondments.
Buying is now better co-ordinated across the Group and our own ofce in China is being restructured to maximise the benets of procurement in this increasingly important source of electrical goods.
10 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 As the Group has grown to operate some 15 brands across numerous European markets, there can occasionally be confusion over our corporate name.
We are therefore seeking shareholders approval at the annual general meeting to adopt the name DSG International plc, in place of Dixons Group plc.
The Dixons brand will of course remain in our high street and airport stores in the UK and Ireland.
Further information The strengths of a on this proposal is set out in the accompanying notice of annual general meeting.
specialist electrical retailer remain our Consistent with best practice, we have for the second year evaluated the effectiveness competitive advantage of the Board and its various committees.
Each individual directors contribution has been appraised, as has the Chairmans.
Our policies on corporate responsibility and the environment are well documented and our performance is measured.
The Board is satisfied that we are achieving steady improvements.
The Group has donated a further 1 million to deserving causes, principally to those which address the needs of people with disabilities or who are otherwise disadvantaged.
Many of our employees add to this through our Community Investment Programme in their local communities and I salute their efforts.
I am delighted to have been invited to remain as your Chairman for a further three years and am grateful to my colleagues on the Board for their commitment and contribution to the delivery of our corporate goals.
I must give a particular word of thanks to our Chief Executive, John Clare, whose experience and energy are negotiating the Group through a period of unprecedented change.
The CBE recently awarded to him was well deserved and a great pleasure to all his colleagues.
As I write, uncertainty continues over the economic prospects for the coming year or two in some of the countries in which we operate.
Our prosperity depends on consumers disposable income and any further increases in taxation, direct or indirect, will damage our prospects along with those of all other retailers.
It is when times are challenging that one particularly appreciates the commitment and efforts of our employees, now numbering over 40,000 across the world.
I record my thanks and appreciation to them all.
Sir John Collins Chairman Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 11
