FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 Chairmans statement In 2005 we have produced another strong set of international markets.
The Fired Earth operations results and made good progress in our objective of saw sales fall as its core tile business proved making Aga Foodservice a market leader in the challenging in 2005.
Fired Earth, particularly through premium consumer and commercial cooker and its large inspirational stores format, is now an refrigeration markets.
The organic revenue and profit integral part of our Aga retail formula and we have growth was driven by good performances by Aga, taken decisive action to improve performance by Rangemaster, Aga Bakery and Williams, our cutting overhead costs and focusing on new kitchen commercial refrigeration operation.
Over the last five years we have doubled sales and The strong performance from the European increased turnover, profits and dividends each year.
foodservice operations, with revenue up 14.1% and As importantly we have created a strong base for the operating profits up 37.3%, was a particularly future through developing our existing products and pleasing feature of the year.
Aga Bakery continues to distribution channels, as well as acquiring further increase market share in France and the UK, it is premium brands and international routes to market.
also building a presence in Eastern European This product and geographical breadth is providing markets and for our US operations.
We benefited sound bases for our businesses making them less from the greater integration of our operations which dependent on economic cycles in particular markets.
reduced operating costs and raised product breadth.
This trend will continue as we now have firmly We are delighted that in the last year our fryers and established market positions and we expect to see fridges have received Government and industry further benefits of our investment programmes in awards, notably for their energy saving 2006 and beyond.
Aga Foodservice is expanding from the already well-established platforms it has in the Our plan remains to expand our premium UK.
We now have widened packages available to international cooker and appliance operations and to enable this expansion.
be a world leading equipment supplier into the bakery and foodservice industries given our product In North America, performance was mixed.
Our leadership positions in energy efficiency and waste bakery operations progressed well but our reduction.
commercial refrigeration operations saw margins remain weak.
Likewise, on the consumer front, the Trading performance refrigeration appliance business was strong but our In 2005, revenues rose by 15.7% to 501.8 million home fashions retail operations remained flat as and operating profits were up 18.5% to 41.7 consumer spending on furniture was subdued.
The organic growth rates achieved for Overall, the US contributed 22.7% of total revenue revenue and operating profit were 5.2% and 13.4% and 11.3% of operating profits.
Profit before tax was up 18.5% to have established in the US in recent years reinforced 43.0 million.
Profit after tax and earnings per share with new products provide the right bases on which rose 17.8% and 16.2% respectively to 34.4 million to build greater profitability.
These good figures and a balance sheet which showed net cash of 20.4 million at the Corporate development year end enables us to increase the dividend for the Over the last five years we have steadily built the fifth year in a row to 9.2 pence per share an overall business from revenue of 200 million to increase of 10.8% in the year and a cumulative 500 million and operating profit from 20.3 million increase of 84% over the last five years.
to 41.7 million by investing in products and by selectively acquiring businesses which are not only The European consumer markets remain the strong in themselves, but also have the potential heartland of the business, generating 42.9% of the to access product available from within the total revenue.
The UK markets were quiet but the Group, bringing operational gearing benefits to strong new product programmes and marketing our manufacturing operations.
This systematic campaigns for Aga and Rangemaster enabled us to approach to development is itself creating offset this while implementing our growth plans for new opportunities.
Chairmans statement 02 03 In 2005, we made several acquisitions, all of which In Foodservice, Aga Bakery continues to gather we had followed for some time: Waterford Stanley momentum in traditional European markets and our the Irish range cooker company: Heartland the product range is now better known by the major Ontario-based premium cooker and refrigeration supermarket groups.
With the expansion of our operation: Divertimenti the London-based high-end strong foodservice offering now including kitchenware business: and we acquired control of refrigeration, fryers and steamers, we have the Grange - all of which have well-established niche products to meet the needs of commercial market positions, growth ambitions and bring with customers increasingly ready to look back of house them impressive market access for other Group at cost, efficiency, safety and waste reduction.
In Foodservice, the focus we have placed Against this background, we see 2006 as another on energy efficiency and healthy cooking is year where our systematic approach to development increasingly well understood and we have won a will aid progress.
number of major awards, most notably becoming Energy Star Partner of the Year under the US Federal Over the last five years we have created a strong Governments energy conservation programme.
We business based on premium cookers and acquired the Stellar Steam product line and since the refrigeration and we are well positioned to continue year end we have acquired the German-based but the expansion we have already seen.
internationally established, Eloma both steamer companies, which add to our reputation for technical strength in the market place.
Eloma adds appreciably to our hot foodservice package now based on 6-burner ranges, fryers and steamers.
With cash resources to invest, we will sustain our Vic Cocker CBE, development approach while retaining the option to Chairman buy-back shares if market conditions provide 17th March 2006 appropriate opportunities.
People and management In 2005 Paul Jackson a senior client executive with Ogilvy & Mather in the UK joined the board and adds great experience in international brand management at board level.
John Lovering left the board to focus on his role as Debenhams chairman.
Judy George is concentrating on the expansion of Aga Home assimilating Domain, Grange and Agas US retail offering and has stepped down from the Group board.
We now have over 6,000 employees with over 1,000 employees in both France and the US.
Our clearly defined and streamlined structures have created strong teams and considerable opportunities for our staff to widen their horizons in larger business groupings.
This is now a considerable strength of the Group and we thank everybody for their contribution.
Current trading and outlook The start of 2006 has seen a continuation of the themes well-established in 2005.
In consumer the strength of our product offering reduces our vulnerability to consumer market weakness in the UK and internationally we expect to sustain top line momentum.
Orders to date for Aga and Rangemaster suggest another sound trading performance.
