4 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Chairmans Statement Our strategy to enhance earnings through acquisition and organic development enabled the Group to produce a commendable result.
Antony Hichens Chairman accounting standard.
As required in the advanced into solid profit, the Spanish accounting standard, the 2003 04 result has operation grew rapidly, and we successfully been restated to include a pension charge launched the new Italian business.
In May 2005, the Group Although trading conditions remain introduced further changes to the pension difficult, the Group has in recent years taken scheme to mitigate the higher cost of steps to reduce its reliance on the cyclical providing pensions.
We also increased Paper business and has demonstrated its the cash payments into the scheme from commitment to generating strong free cash 10 million to 14 million per annum.
With the benefits now accruing from We are now well advanced with the integration the enlarged Corrugated Packaging business of Linpac Containers and generating the and the improving performance of Spicers, In 2004 05, a further weakening in the paper expected synergies, despite the delay which the Board is proposing a 0.2 pence increase market and sharply higher energy and polymer resulted from the referral of the acquisition to in the final dividend to 5.8 pence, giving costs created a very challenging environment, the Competition Commission: the acquisition a full year dividend of 8.4 pence which was reflected in lower profits in both finally received unconditional clearance in 2003 04: 8.2 pence.
our Paper and Plastic Packaging businesses.
As stated in our April trading update, we Nevertheless, our strategy to enhance The Groups financial performance reflects have begun 2005 06 with energy and other earnings through acquisition and organic the benefits of the drive over the last three input costs at considerably higher levels than development enabled the Group to produce years to raise the profit contribution of at the start of 2004 05.
Since April, future a commendable result.
We made progress our non-Paper activities.
This has largely energy costs look like being even higher than in Corrugated Packaging, thanks both to an compensated for both the sharp cyclical fall previously expected.
We anticipate delivering improved result from our existing business in Paper profits and accounting for the cost of the previously indicated synergies from and to the substantial contribution from the pension scheme.
In Paper and Corrugated the integration of Linpac Containers and our first full year of ownership of Linpac Packaging we began to generate considerable achieving a further advance at Spicers, but Containers.
The Spicers Office Products benefits from our enlarged position in UK the extent to which these benefits will be Wholesaling business continued to advance, Corrugated Packaging, which materially offset by additional input costs is uncertain.
helped by moving into profit in Germany.
offset the challenging conditions in UK Paper, We will continue our focus on cost recovery 1 The Groups adjusted earnings per share while we continued the development of our and cash generation.
2 were 14.7 pence 2003 04 restated : 13.6 corrugated packaging business in continental pence.
A strong cash flow, before dividends Europe.
We further strengthened the UK and acquisitions, of 55.4 million 2003 04: Paper business by enlarging our recovered 63.0 million enabled the Group to maintain paper collection operations and by concluding a healthy balance sheet, benefiting from the a major long-term supply agreement with new financings put in place in the year.
The BPB plc for plasterboard liner paper, an result includes a significant charge in respect important diversification for our paper sales of DS Smiths UK defined benefit pension into a growth market.
In Office Products, scheme for the first time for many years and Spicers continued its development in is now reported under the FRS 17 pensions continental Europe: the German business Antony Hichens Chairman 1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles 2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement benets and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts
