04 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Chairmans Statement This has been an outstanding year for East Surrey Holdings and one which has delivered exceptional value to shareholders.
It is the first full financial year to include the results of Phoenix Natural Gas, and our decision to develop East Surrey Holdings into a true multi-utility operation has placed us in the FTSE 250 index.
Terra Firma offer the current position Introduction In August 2004 we concluded a new Earlier this year, Terra Firma approached This has been an outstanding year for regulatory agreement with the Northern East Surrey Holdings.
This approach East Surrey Holdings and one which Ireland Agency for Energy Regulation lead to an offer for the Group which the has delivered exceptional value to NIAER, which gave a Regulated Asset Board considered reflected both the shareholders.
It is the first full financial Value for Phoenix in excess of 300.0 significant progress made by East Surrey year to include the results of Phoenix million.
It is a matter of concern that, Holdings Group to date and its ambitions Natural Gas, and our decision to develop arising from Terra Firmas offer, NIAER for the future.
The Independent Directors East Surrey Holdings into a true multi-utility has now indicated that it is not bound recommended the offer to shareholders.
operation has placed us in the FTSE 250 by this agreement.
Subsequently, the offer was approved by index.
From 1 October 2004, a common shareholders, and the transaction was There has also been good progress in all charging regime postalisation came expected to be completed by 8 July 2005. businesses which is coming through in into force for all users of the transmission Unfortunately, the original timetable has the financial results.
Turnover for the pipeline network in Northern Ireland.
had to be extended to allow certain Group in the year ending 31 March was The effect of this change will be to regulatory authorities additional time to 108.9 million, an increase of 49% over spread the cost of the network across complete their review of the proposals.
last year 73.1 million, and operating all electricity and gas consumers.
This has led to three adjournments of profits for the Group showed a similar As regards commodity costs, we have a the final Court meeting to approve the increase to 21.7 million 14.9 million.
gas supply contract with British Gas Scheme of Arrangement.
I wrote to The Group is positioned to expand and Trading.
During the year, we successfully shareholders earlier this month explaining can do so with strong cash balances.
renegotiated the terms of this and the the situation.
Yesterday, the Department The Boards primary aim continues to be result has been to insulate Phoenix of Enterprise, Trade and Investment to invest in our core infrastructure from volatile costs to some degree.
made an announcement to the effect businesses of gas and water.
The contract moves to market price that it does not currently foresee that it from October this year.
will exercise its powers under Schedule Phoenix Natural Gas 3 of the combined licence of Phoenix As expected, Phoenix made good E. S. Pipelines Natural Gas to revoke the combined progress throughout the year and Our independent gas transportation licence in relation to a change of control achieved all its operational targets.
company continues to find and develop of Phoenix.
A further announcement will Turnover of 58.2 million 43.9 million its own projects in all, there are 80 be made next week.
We now need to increased by 33% and connections have projects currently being constructed or announce our results for the year ended continued to grow rapidly, reaching earning revenue.
As at 31 March 2005, it 31 March 2005 in order to comply with 82,000 by March 2005 with almost was conveying gas to 16,000 customers.
the Stock Exchanges listing rules.
Turnover is now 1.2million 0.5million and it generated operating profits of 0.3million losses of 0.1million.
East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 05 Pat Barrett Chairman Pat Barrett Chairman In May 2005 we formed a Joint Venture abstract most of our water, we introduced Under the terms of our index linked bond, company with Terra Firma to acquire a ban on the use of sprinklers.
This action 27.8 33.4 million million is retained in British Gas Connections Limited for was in line with our planned response to Sutton and East Surrey Water in order to 90.0 million.
We own 25% of the jointdroughts, and is supported by the fund future capital investment, while venture for a cash outlay of 8.2 million Environment Agency.
The possibility of a 40.6 million is available for investment from existing cash resources.
E. S. hosepipe ban remains under review.
Pipelines has a management contract to As regards future pricing, OFWAT has now Dividends operate the business on behalf of the published its price review for the period In accordance with our policy to grow joint-venture.
Under the terms of the dividends in line with inflation and to connections with an order book of 37,000 Review, prices will increase by an average provide real increases as Phoenix becomes to be connected in the next few years.
While we have cash generative, a final dividend of This significantly expands the scale of our some reservations about its conclusions, 10.0p per share 9.55p per share was business and should enhance the returns.
particularly the low level of maintenance embedded in Terra Firmas offer for the Sutton and East Surrey Water expenditure, we believe that we can Group.
This will make a total for the year Turnover in Sutton and East Surrey Water work within it to continue delivering an of 14.9p per share 14.3p per share.
increased by 1.5 % to 38.6 million excellent service to our customers and In the past year, we have not only 38.0 million.
A moderate summer, good returns to our shareholders.
consolidated Phoenix into the Group compared to the previous years record Non-regulated businesses but also generated real value for our hot summer, resulted in fairly static Our non-regulated businesses have shareholders.
We are justly proud of demand from domestic customers and performed in line with expectations, this achievement and look forward to impacted revenue growth.
Lower generating profits of 1.5 million 1.2 building the business even further in infrastructure and regulation costs million.
Demand at both Advanced the coming year.
associated with the price review have Minerals, our aggregates and specialist resulted in an increase in operating That the Group has been able to minerals company, and Allmat, our profits to 12.0 million 10.8 million.
achieve such outstanding results is building materials distributor, exceeded entirely due to the commitment of its OFWAT has confirmed that we have expectations.
Sutton and East Surrey management and employees at every continued to provide an excellent service Water Services, which provides plumbing level and I would like to thank everyone to customers, that we have achieved our services, again increased its turnover, for all their hard work and dedication leakage targets and have met exacting and we launched a new retail venture throughout the past year.
quality standards for our water.
In April, following the driest winter and Finances Pat Barrett spring for 30 years, when only about half Tight control of the Group's finances Chairman the average amount of water filtered have left us with healthy cash balances 29 July 2005 through into the aquifers from which we totalling 68.4 million 77.6 million.
