plc 95 05 95 05 Chairmans statement During the last financial year, easyJet has begun the process of building a new management team.
Where possible, this process was conducted in a phased manner, so as to ensure that sufficient continuity has been maintained to retain the required focus on the business.
In 2005 our financial performance improved with a 9.1% increase in profit before tax.
This has been achieved due to a strong emphasis on revenue and cost management.
We recognise the need to continue to enhance shareholder value, and a new long term incentive plan for management based on increases in return on equity was introduced.
This received shareholder approval at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 15 September 2005.
A key feature of this plan is the requirement for share ownership by senior management.
95 05 In March, we welcomed Jeff Carr as Group Finance Mike Szucs has been promoted from within the Director.
Jeffs previous experience in companies in Group to Chief Operating Officer.
Mike has more highly competitive markets is already bringing benefits than ten years airline experience and has been with to easyJet.
Mike Campbell has joined the management team as People Director.
Mike recently In May, Ray Webster announced he would be stepping held a number of senior management roles at the down from the Board on 1 December 2005.
contribution to the growth of easyJet over the last ten years has been immense and he will be greatly missed.
Our search for a Chief Commercial Officer has A rigorous search process resulted in the appointment recently concluded and I am delighted to announce of Andrew Harrison to the Board as our new Chief the appointment of Saad Hammad who joined the Executive Officer, and I am sure that he will make management team on 7 November.
a significant contribution to improving easyJets performance.
Andrew will take over from Ray Managing increased profitability from easyJets on 1 December.
continued growth as a high volume business necessitates the formation of a high quality senior Additionally, Ed Winter, our Chief Operating Officer, management group.
The building of the top team and Stephen Connock, our People Director, retired along with the long term incentive plan, with its in September 2005. emphasis on share ownership and its availability 04 Annual report and accounts 05 Basic earnings per share pence Return on equity % 14.6 13.5 22.1 10.7 10.3 8.2 7.5 7.4 7.4 6.7 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 to our top 50 managers, give me confidence in Despite high fuel prices, we have continued the trend our ability to grow shareholder returns.
from the first half and made significant reductions in our non-fuel cost base.
In highly competitive markets, As previously announced, Colin Day and Tony Illsley the challenge of simply improving shareholder value both stood down from the Board on 30 September is unrelenting, but the quality of our team throughout 2005, and Amir Eilon, representing easyGroup on the the whole Group gives me confidence in our future.
Board, will not be offering himself for re-election.
All three We would not have achieved what we have without have been excellent participants in Board deliberations the dedication of all our staff, and on behalf of the and I am most grateful for their contributions.
Board I offer them many thanks and much appreciation.
In May 2005, following the announcement that Amir Eilon would be stepping down, Stelios Haji-Ioannou rejoined the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
We were fortunate to have appointed, as an Independent Non-Executive Director, David Bennett, Sir Colin Chandler the Finance Director of Alliance and Leicester plc, Chairman a FTSE 100 company.
Davids appointment was effective from 1 October 2005.
I look forward to Davids 21 November 2005 contribution to Board matters and his stewardship of the Audit Committee.
