Chairmans Statement We remain committed to generating high returns for shareholders over time as a result of past investments and the developments now in progress.
Bob Lawson, Chairman The sales growth experienced in the first half consistent profit growth would permit of the year weakened in the second half most of the earnings and cash ow to be which resulted in a small decline in operating distributed as dividend.
profits have not profit for the year of 1.7% to 105.3m from developed as expected, particularly in a sales increase of 4.5% to 773.9m.
the UK and Europe, and in light of the Our view is that our markets, strategic review the dividend policy has particularly in Europe, have become been reassessed.
Your Group will The Board recognises the importance of therefore increasingly focus on serving the dividends to shareholders and is confident small quantity needs of the electronics that the successful implementation of the engineer together with a broad offer for other Enterprise Business Systems EBS, engineering disciplines.
Our market position execution of the strategy and cost reduction in the electronics sector globally is our core initiatives will signicantly improve financial strength as reected by the Distributor of performance over the next three years.
However we can exploit Consequently, assuming no substantial this strength to a much greater extent as, deterioration in economic conditions, the I believe, will be demonstrated during the Board has decided that it should maintain the coming years.
current level of dividend during these three years.
To the extent necessary, the strength Dividend of the balance sheet will be used to support The Board recommends that the final dividend the dividend.
per share for the year be the same as last year 12.6p to give 18.4p for the full year, Our people an increase of 1.1%.
Our staff have experienced a demanding Dividend growth in recent years has year.
The reason that customers place been based on our view that the high cash business with us is service excellence and generation of the Group, the strong balance this relies on the attention and commitment sheet and the expectation of reasonably of each member of staff.
The award received, RS BUSINESSES: ALLIED ELECTRONICS: WHERE WE ARE, United Kingdom North America United States WORLDWIDE Rest of Europe Canada France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Spain, Our Group comprises the RS Republic of Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, The Netherlands, Belgium companies in 24 countries Japan and Allied in the United Rest of World States and Canada.
Australia, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, Malaysia, New Zealand, The Philippines, India, Chile 2 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement confirmed by independent market research, knowledge.
In the short time that Kevin confirms that all our people execute their has been on the Board, he has made roles supremely well resulting in the service a significant contribution.
I am particularly pleased that these service standards have Governance been maintained whilst either preparing for The Board has met 12 times during the year or installing major system changes in many and also visited the UK operations.
addition, a two-day strategic review was held, On behalf of the Board I would like to at which Regional Managers presented their thank each person for their contribution.
plans and priorities were agreed.
As announced on March 22nd, Jeff Hewitt, the Group Finance Director, wishes Current trading and outlook to seek early retirement from the Board The Board is intent on delivering a sustainable in order to develop his career beyond and growing profit stream.
announcing the next stage of the Groups Jeff has been Finance Director for nine development which will achieve the Boards years and has played a major role in all the objectives by focusing on the key customer Group activities from being active in strategy groups in each market served and reducing execution to Y2K and the launch of the Euro.
A key enabler is the Enterprise Latterly, Jeff has played a leading role in the Business System, and its implementation this development of the Groupwide Enterprise year in the UK is a major task.
The Group does Business Systems together with strengthening have a track record of executing change well.
and developing the financial management Since the year end, trading has and investor relations activity of the Group.
remained strong in North America, Asia, Jeff has been a tremendous colleague, Japan and the smaller European markets but catalyst and mentor to all in the Group who it has continued to be depressed in the UK have had the pleasure of working with him, and our main European markets.
The leading and we wish him continued success in his indicators suggest a difficult trading new career direction.
environment in most of our markets and Our search for Jeffs replacement has so we remain cautious on the outlook for been successful, and I am delighted to the coming year.
announce that Simon Boddie, Finance We remain committed to generating Director of Key Markets for Diageo, will be high returns for shareholders over time as joining us on 1 July.
Simon brings much a result of past investments and the relevant experience, particularly of rapidly developments now in progress.
changing international markets, which will be of direct benefit to the Group.
Jeff will be staying with the Group to ensure a comprehensive handover to Simon.
It is also a great pleasure to welcome Kevin Abbott to the Board.
Kevin is CEO of Alpha Airports and not only brings current experience of a demanding service industry Bob Lawson but also a breadth of relevant international Chairman GLOBAL OPERATIONS AS % OF TOTAL GLOBAL GDP Operating companies Distributor network Export only markets Our operating companies cover 82% of Global GDP and we believe that further scope for growth exists.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3
