It is estimated there will be 2 billion mobile phone subscriptions worldwide by the end of 2005.
Source: Nokia 11 Joss Stone With a further four million albums sold, two Brit awards and a show stopping Grammy performance, Joss Stone recently featured in Gaps US TV campaign for white jeans.
12 Chairmans statement Global music market conditions continued to improve during the year.
A key driver has been the very rapid growth in legitimate digital music.
For the year, digital music represented more than two percent of the global music market as compared to last year when sales had just started to take off.
We remain confident that digital music will drive the industry forward at attractive growth rates in the coming years and that it will become a significantly larger proportion of our business.
We are also encouraged by trends in global physical music sales, where declines continued to moderate.
During the year we saw a considerable improvement in Continental Europe, one of the most challenging regions in recent years.
While we still saw a decline in value year-on-year, the magnitude of decline has significantly reduced, particularly in the key German and French markets.
We also saw a notable improvement in the Japanese and Latin American markets.
The North American market softened during the year, particularly during our second half.
EMI Musics performance for the financial year was impacted by lower than anticipated reorders in the fourth quarter and the rescheduling of two major albums Eric Nicoli into the current financial year.
We believe that the fundamental business under the Chairman leadership of Alain Levy has made, and will continue to make, good progress.
EMI Group During the year, we successfully completed our announced restructuring initiatives at EMI Music, including the outsourcing of manufacturing in the United States and Europe and the restructuring of some of our labels in particular in Continental Europe.
These initiatives delivered combined cost savings of 35m in the year, 10m ahead of plan.
The remaining 15m of annualised savings are expected to be realised in the current financial year, bringing the total annualised cost savings to 50m.
We continue to be focused on improving our overall efficiency through efforts targeted at procurement and marketing effectiveness together with our IT change programme.
EMI Music has continued to invest in artist development, the core of our business, and has a strong track record of developing artists who have success on a multiplealbum basis.
Top sellers in the year included albums from Robbie Williams, Tina Turner, Norah Jones, Beastie Boys, Blue, Kylie Minogue, Lenny Kravitz, Chingy and Moby.
During the year, EMI Music continued to build upon the initial success of newer superstars, Joss Stone, Keith Urban and Yellowcard.
We are continually strengthening our active roster of global superstars which numbers nearly 50 artists.
EMI Music is aggressively pursuing the digital market.
During the year, we have worked hard to put in place the right digital partnerships globally to ensure that, as an owner of digital content, we maximise this opportunity.
EMI Music Publishing has further strengthened its position as the leading global music publisher.
Martin Bandier and his team continued to sign todays very best song-writing talent during the last financial year, including Eminem and Scissor Sisters, and we continue to lead the industry in our ability to maximise revenues from the songs in EMIs exceptional catalogue.
13 Global music market During the year, EMI Music Publishing has been at the forefront of the digital market % development including, in December 2004, the ground-breaking agreement between EMI Music Publishing and Sony BMG on new digital products for the US % change and Canadian markets.
We are committed to capturing the full benefits of digital and, 4.2 6 4.1 looking ahead, we expect both the digital opportunity and improved conditions in the 3.1 4 recorded music market to drive attractive growth.
At constant currency, turnover declined by 5.1%.
The impact of currency physical -6 -8.7 only movements lowered turnover by a further 3.3%, with the weakening of the US Dollar -8 against Sterling having a particularly negative impact on reported numbers.
-10 FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 This decline in Group turnover at constant currency was entirely driven by the 7.4% Source: EMI and IFPI decline in constant currency turnover at EMI Music.
EMI Music Publishing grew turnover by 4.9% at constant currency.
Group operating margin increased to 12.0% from 11.8% in the prior year despite the decline in turnover.
Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation EBITA was 232.9m compared with 249.3m last year.
The Group is not reporting any operating exceptional charges for the year.
At constant currency, EBITA declined by 3.5%.
Group profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional items Adjusted PBT was 141.9m.
The net result after taxation, amortisation, exceptional items and minority interests was a profit of 56.3m compared to a loss of 71.6m in the prior year.
Net debt increased to 829.5m from 748.7m in the prior year.
This increase, in part, reflects the 60.3m one-off exceptional cash cost of outsourcing our manufacturing in Europe and the United States and of restructuring some of our labels and the artist A key driver has roster together with the 42.3m cash cost associated with the acquisition of the remaining 20% of the Jobete song catalogue in April 2004. been the rapid On a per share basis, adjusted earnings decreased to 13.5p from 15.8p in the prior growth in digital year.
On a fully diluted share basis, adjusted earnings were 13.0p.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.0p per share, maintaining a full-year dividend of 8.0p per share and reflecting our continued confidence in the performance of, and outlook for, the business.
EMI Music In spite of the improved market backdrop, EMI Music had a challenging year resulting in a disappointing performance.
EMI Music delivered turnover of 1,542.1m compared with 1,722.8m in the prior year.
At constant currency, turnover declined by 7.4%.
14 G Total group digital sales Operating profit EBITA was 132.7m compared to 147.4m in the prior year.
T m at constant currency Effective cost management and the realisation of cost savings from the outsourcing of manufacturing in Europe and the United States and the restructuring of some labels and the artist roster, resulted in the operating margin, before central costs, 35 being maintained at 8.6%.
30.2 30 25 We saw a significant turnaround in our Continental European business, which enjoyed 19.5 20 gains in market share and a major improvement in profitability for the year.
Our North American business lost market share, following a successful prior year.
We believe 15 10.2 this to be a temporary setback and remain committed to continuing the turnaround 10 4.9 seen in this region in prior periods.
Japan also lost share, largely due to a lighter release 5 schedule and, in particular, the lack of new releases from local superstars.
Despite 0 H1 H2 H1 H2 the rescheduling of albums from Coldplay and Gorillaz, the UK delivered a solid performance during the year, reflecting a steady stream of good releases.
2003 04 2004 05 EMI Music Publishing EMI Music Publishing had a very strong year reporting turnover of 400.7m compared to 397.9m, an increase of 4.9% at constant currency.
Group digital sales by revenue type Operating profit EBITA was 100.2m compared to 101.9m in the prior year.
Mobile 58% EMI Music Publishings performance demonstrated the superiority of our song catalogue, creative approach, marketing capabilities and operating efficiency.
Subscription 7% In particular, through the aggressive marketing of our songs, performance and synchronisation revenues continued to be important drivers of growth during the year as mechanical revenues remained under pressure.
Content protection We continue to be extremely active in our fight against piracy.
During the year, we saw industry lawsuits against illegal file sharers launched across Europe, in addition to those in the US, bringing the total number of lawsuits initiated internationally to nearly 12,000.
The IFPI the worldwide recording association has published evidence to indicate that our initiatives are having an impact.
Overall, the number of infringing music files on the Internet has dropped from a peak of 1.1 billion, in April 2003, to 870m, in January 2005, a drop of 21%.
This decline is even more impressive given that, during the same time period, global broadband penetration, a facilitator of online piracy as well as legitimate digital distribution, grew by 75% from 80m to 140m households worldwide.
KaZaA, which used to be the largest and most popular file-sharing service, has seen its user figures drop by approximately 45% from 4.2m to 2.3m average concurrent users since the start of the warning and litigation campaign.
Download 35% Our anti-piracy effort has included, and will continue to include, many initiatives in addition to lawsuits.
We are also working closely with governments around the world to introduce and enforce copyright protection.
Above all, we believe that the introduction of new and exciting legitimate digital music consumer offerings is a critical element in the fight against piracy.
15 Management Both businesses In January, we announced a succession plan for EMI Music Publishing and the appointment of a new Group Chief Financial Officer.
will benefit from Roger Faxon, who was the Groups CFO, returned to EMI Music Publishing where improving longhe is now President and Chief Operating Officer.
Roger is to become joint CEO of EMI Music Publishing, with Martin Bandier, in April 2006 and sole CEO in April 2007 when term recorded Martin Bandier will become full-time Chairman.
In 2008, Roger will succeed Martin Bandier as Chairman and Martin Bandier will act as a consultant to the division for music market a further three years.
With this, I believe we have in place a plan that will ensure a smooth succession and that will enable the EMI Music Publishing management team trends, driven by to continue to drive the business forward.
I would like to thank Roger for the enormous contribution that he has made in his three years as Group CFO and on the Board.
continued strong Martin Stewart has taken up the position of Group CFO and, on 1 February 2005, growth in digital was appointed to the Board of EMI when Roger stood down.
I am very pleased to be working with Martin and believe that we have attracted an outstanding executive, music.
with a strong track record in the media sector, and someone who has the talent to help us take the Group to the next level of performance.
In what has been a challenging year for the Group, on behalf of the Board I would like to thank all of my EMI colleagues for their hard work and on-going dedication and commitment to the business.
I would also like to thank all our stakeholders for their support and, in particular, acknowledge the remarkable creative accomplishments of the artists and songwriters associated with our Company.
Outlook Looking to the year ahead, we remain positive on the outlook for the music industry and expect to deliver an improved performance.
EMI Musics portfolio of releases should drive market share gain and increased profitability.
The positive momentum at EMI Music Publishing should continue.
Both businesses will benefit from improving longterm recorded music market trends, driven by continued strong growth in digital music.
Eric Nicoli Chairman 16 Operating review Sample.
An estimated 50 million portable music players were sold worldwide in 2004.
Source: IDC 17 Robbie Williams With sales of 6.0 million, Robbie Williamss Greatest Hits was the sixth biggest selling album worldwide during 2004 and reached number one in 18 countries.
