02 Enodis plc Employees Chairmans statement The importance of our people to our performance and strategy is clearly reflected in this report.
Without our 6,000 employees worldwide and their continued commitment, effort and loyalty, our objectives cannot be achieved.
I and my colleagues on the Board, thank them all most warmly for their hard work throughout the year.
Capital restructuring and dividends We have successfully completed our capital restructuring programme announced in May 2005.
In addition to the return to the dividend list, our capital restructuring programme leads to annualised cost savings of approximately 6m, being a combination of a reduction in interest costs of 3m and a saving of compliance and listing costs of 3m, mainly due to the elimination of the requirements to comply with the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
While we have thus terminated US reporting requirements, our commitment to governance and communication with the investment community remains as high as ever.
The Board recognises that dividends represent an important component of total shareholder return.
Accordingly, the Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy that will reflect the medium term prospects for earnings growth Introduction of the Group, the strength of our cash generation and the investment needs and opportunities of the business.
This year we have revised the structure of our annual Looking forward the Board intends to pay an interim and report and, as you will see, the key sections are explained a final dividend with the final representing approximately on the opposite page.
We have prepared a review of two-thirds of the annual total.
operations finance that we believe shareholders will find helpful in following the Enodis story.
This has been The Board is therefore pleased to recommend a final dividend produced as part of our process towards preparing the for FY05 of 1.3p per share equivalent to 2p on a full year mandatory Operating and Financial Review next year.
basis payable on 20 February 2006, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
This year we have made further progress on all our strategic objectives and I am particularly pleased that our focus on Corporate governance top line growth has borne fruit.
We also made a significant The Board continues to strive for high standards of step forward by successfully completing our capital corporate governance.
Our corporate governance report restructuring programme, enabling us to return to the on pages 35 to 37 describes how the Group has applied dividend list.
the principles of good governance set out in the Combined The Board Code issued in July 2003.
There have been no changes in the Board composition Outlook this year.
We continue to see exciting opportunities in our markets As you can see from the corporate governance review, with a growing number of chain customers seeking innovative we have carefully examined ourselves and our performance new products, and who are particularly interested in our as a Board and continue to learn and develop as we go.
Accelerated Cooking Technology products and systems as We have had many fruitful and constructive discussions over they seek to develop new menu items.
As we enter FY06 the year and I would like to thank my Board colleagues for we are buoyed by our success at the NAFEM tradeshow, in their time, effort and the quality of their contributions, made September this year, where our commitment to innovation in ever more demanding times for Boards everywhere.
was demonstrated through the launch of 12 new products, including the Convotherm 3 combi-oven for the North American market.
03 Enodis plc Chairmans statement Food and Beverage markets are forecast to continue to grow in line with historical rates of approximately 4%.
This year we are We believe that food equipment markets broadly track GDP, which is forecast to grow at 3.3% in the US and 1.8% in presenting our report Europe.
Although there has been some media commentary in a new format which regarding the potential for reduced short term consumer confidence, GDP growth and order intake remain strong in we believe shareholders North America.
We have Materials cost inflation, which was significant in FY05, has stabilised to more normal levels, with the exception structured the report into of energy costs which represent only a small part of our the following sections: materials cost structure.
We expect to be able to offset this inflation in Food Service Equipment North America by price Pages 48 increases and Lean manufacturing and purchasing initiatives: however market conditions limit our ability in Food Service Integrated solutions Equipment Europe Asia and Food Retail Equipment to do the same.
Examples of our individual Our future results will reflect the benefits of FY05s capital companies coming together and European restructuring programmes which are expected to provide solutions for to generate annualised operating profit benefits of c5m.
In FY06, incremental cost savings compared to FY05 are Buffalo Wild Wings, expected to be approximately 2m.
We expect this to be offset by incremental costs of 3m associated with our Culinary Development continued investment in new products and the cost of Center Noble Associates expanding our sales infrastructure, particularly in Asia.
The phasing of our FY05 results reflected product roll-outs and a major pull forward of orders in advance of a significant price increase in January 2005.
We expect FY06 phasing Pages 913 to be more in line with our historical experience.
Leading brands We are looking forward with confidence to another year of good progress.
A number of our brands are Conclusion market leaders worldwide In the last three years we have concentrated on the here we focus on some financial repositioning of the Group which is now complete.
We have benefited from the pursuit of a consistent strategy of the successes over the under the strong and skilled leadership of our management.
As you will see from the following pages of this report, we are maintaining our approach and I am confident we will see continued, and indeed accelerating, progress over the Page 1431 longer term.
Review of operations finance An in-depth look at our business focusing Peter Brooks on markets, strategy Chairman and performance.
