04 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Chairmans statement Jeff Harris Welcome to the first Filtrona plc Annual potential where it can secure competitive Report and Accounts following the 6 June advantage.
This strategy, and the capture 2005 listing of the Company on the London of new customers and business in our Stock Exchange.
principal activities, demonstrates our focus on organic development and gives the Board Overview confidence that Filtrona will continue its track I am pleased to report Filtrona has delivered record of steady, cash generative growth.
These were achieved in a year which saw substantial organisational Results summary change associated with our transition Sales were 513.7m 2004: 477.5m to an independent public company.
an increase of 7.6%, with sales growth The performance reflects a sound start accelerating in the second half of the following the demerger, and continues year.
Operating profit before intangible the Companys record of consistent amortisation and demerger expense organic growth.
was 57.8m 2004: 48.1m up 8.7% after excluding non-recurring IFRS Filtrona has a well invested and efficient adjustments.
Profit before tax was production, sourcing and supply 50.0m 2004: 45.7m an increase of infrastructure.
At 31 December 2005 net debt research, technology and production was 120.2m.
Adjusted earnings per facilities is key to preserving our competitive share, after excluding intangible advantage.
In order to meet the increasing amortisation and demerger expense, demands of customers for service and were 15.0p 2004: 14.0p up 7.1%.
supply chain efficiencies, we have expanded and adapted our international Our key business ratios have strengthened manufacturing footprint to drive down the over those of last year with increased cash costs of production and to improve service.
generation and improvements in operating margins, return on capital employed and Filtrona focuses its resources on those employee productivity.
international markets with good growth 05 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Filtrona focuses its resources on those international markets with good growth potential where it can secure competitive advantage Acquisitions As Filtrona looks to generate sustained that Filtrona has delivered a robust set of In December the Company increased its international growth in accordance with results in its first period as an independent share in the FractureCode joint venture from its strategic objectives, the Company public company.
The Company has 50% to 80% which gives us management is committed to further developing continued to invest well ahead of control of this important business.
This the substantial potential of its current depreciation to drive further growth.
The move reflects our confidence in the future employees and attracting high calibre market segments within which Filtrona commercial development of FractureCodes people to strengthen the businesses further.
operates display favourable characteristics, patented track and trace technology.
providing a positive environment within On behalf of the Board and the which the Company can continue to grow.
Dividend shareholders, I would like to take this Subject to shareholder approval at the opportunity to thank all Filtrona employees With a sustained focus on innovation, Annual General Meeting, the Board is for their efforts throughout 2005. delivery of superior customer value, supply recommending a final dividend of 4.27p chain optimisation and investment in our per share which, if approved, will make Board people and physical infrastructure, the a total dividend of 6.4p for the full year.
The Board has met eight times during the Board has confidence that Filtrona will The final dividend will be paid on 28 April year and undertaken site visits to several continue its positive development.
2006 to shareholders on the register at facilities.
The Board intends to continue 10 March 2006 with an ex-dividend date with visits to key businesses to meet with of 8 March 2006. operating management.
Jeff Harris Chairman Employees I would like to take this opportunity to 1 March 2006 The key factor behind the delivery of these thank Paul Heiden for his tremendous successful results is the commitment of assistance to the Board both during our employees throughout the world.
As and after the demerger.
Paul will retire I meet more of my colleagues I am hugely from the Board at the Annual General impressed by their determination to deliver Meeting in April and the search for his consistently high service and quality levels to replacement is well advanced.
our customers, whilst seeking innovation in our products and improving productivity.
All Prospects that hard work has been demonstrated in our Having successfully completed the operational progress and in these results.
demerger in June, I am pleased to report
