24898 PRE-ACC new 15 12 05 13:23 Page 2 CHAIRMANS ST A TEMENT Highlights 2005 2004 change Turnover 196.3m 174.7m 12% Profit before tax, goodwill, exceptional items and Capital Appreciation Plan expense 37.1m 28.0m 33% Profit before tax 29.1m 20.5m 42% Adjusted diluted earnings a share before goodwill and exceptional items 35.6p 26.7p 33% Diluted earnings a share 28.0p 18.2p 54% Net debt 65.8m 62.5m 5% Record profit driven by strong organic growth Trading Background Turnover increased by 12% to 196.3 million.
Profits increase across group: publishing, events This improvement comes against a robust trading and electronic information background.
Strong financial markets have generated Group operating margin improves from 17.5% record profits for the global financial institutions and to 20.5% emerging markets remain attractive to capital flows Net cash inflows from operating activities and investment.
While the companys key customers increase by 29% to 43.5m continue to hold back advertising spend, many are Recent acquisitions performing above refocusing their marketing efforts on face-to-face management expectations events, a key growth area for the group.
Moreover, Record dividend 16.2p, against 15p the financial success of these customers is driving an Results reflect early benefits of Capital increase in demand for training and information.
The Appreciation Plan events and training businesses now contribute more than 53% of operating profits compared to 37% Record Results three years ago.
Your company reported a record profit before tax of 37.1 million for the year to September 30, a 33% increase on the previous 12 months.
Profit before tax rose 42% to 29.1 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings a share increased 33% to 35.6p and the directors recommend a 10% increase in the final dividend to 11p, making a total for the year of 16.2p, a record.
These results reflect the key elements of the companys strategy for growing profit before tax towards a target of 50m by 2008: driving top line growth from both new and existing products: reducing the dependence on advertising by building more robust subscription and repeat revenues: a focus on improving the operating margin: and acquisitions to strengthen the companys market position in key areas.
Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment, Capital Appreciation Plan expense and exceptional items as set out in the group profit and loss account and note 2.
Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment and exceptional items as set out and reconciled in note 10.
02 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 3 Organic Growth Acquisitions The companys focus on organic growth has been a The companys acquisition programme concentrates on key driver in increasing turnover.
This comes largely small, specialised media companies which fill gaps in or from launching new products under existing brands enhance its own product sector offering, preferably with and the geographical extension of existing products.
entrepreneurial management who wish to remain with Some of the successes during the year have included and grow their business under earn-out arrangements.
Euromoneys coverage of real estate, the Institutional Often these businesses have reached a stage in their Investor hedge fund institute, new conference and development where they would benefit from the seminar businesses in Asia, and expansion of ISI into branding, marketing and infrastructure benefits of 18 sub-Saharan Africa countries.
being part of a larger group.
The recent acquisitions of the niche hedge fund publisher, HedgeFund Intelligence The focus with events is on quality rather than HFI, and Information Management Network quantity.
The group now has more than 10 marketIMN, the world leader in conferences for the leading annual events with revenues in excess of securitisation and indexation sectors, demonstrate the $1 million, and the strategy is to continue to grow success of this strategy, where both have exceeded these events by both investing in the content and growth expectations since acquisition.
building new revenue streams such as vendor exhibitions, awards dinners and business meetings.
In In September, the company completed the acquisition addition successful new events were launched covering of a 40% interest in TelCap at a cost of 2.1 million.
such diverse areas as Native American finance, condo TelCap is the publisher of Capacity, the leading hotels, renewable energy and inflation-linked bonds as wholesale telecommunications magazine, and also well as conferences in London and New York bringing runs nine annual conferences in the sector.
In addition, together investors targeting key emerging markets the group has targeted a number of information such as China, India and Russia.
businesses which fit well with its existing data products and in March the acquisition of a 49% interest in CEIC Margin was completed at a cost of 4.0 million.
CEIC is one of The companys operating margin improved from the leading providers of time-series macro-economic 17.5% to 20.5%.
The company has traditionally data for Asia and provides an excellent fit with ISIs maintained a policy of tight cost control and the emerging markets information service.
margin improvement in 2005 reflects the high operational gearing of the business.
The headcount, excluding acquisitions, was largely unchanged year-onyear.
Although this positive gearing effect is likely to moderate in future, the companys focus remains the building of high margin, repeat annual revenues and the elimination of low margin products.
During the year the group closed or merged several magazines and newsletters and in May it sold the loss-making Business Traveller group of titles, generating an exceptional loss on disposal of nearly 1 million.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 03 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 4 CHAIRMANS ST A TEMENT continued Management Incentive IMN was particularly successful in both growing its In February, shareholders approved a new long-term market-leading securitization conferences as well as incentive plan to replace the companys executive share launching new events, and its performance since option scheme.
The Capital Appreciation Plan CAP acquisition has significantly exceeded expectations.
is a highly geared equity incentive designed to drive IMNs results also benefited from the timing of its ABS the companys profit before tax towards a target of East conference which was moved from October to 50 million by 2008, compared to 21 million in the September for 2005 and 2006. base year 2003.
Almost 150 managers participate Training continued the strong growth seen in 2004 in the CAP.
The incentive will directly reward each with revenues up 13% and operating profits participant for the profit growth achieved by his or her increasing 25%.
In general the improvement was business and has been a significant factor this year in driven by growth in the volume of courses delivered, motivating senior managers to drive organic growth particularly in emerging markets, helped by increased and launch new products.
If the 50 million CAP profit demand for new hires in the financial sector.
In before tax target is achieved in 2008, it will lead to the addition, new legislation and compliance requirements issue of up to 7.5 million new shares in the company in the United States helped MIS, the Boston-based between 2008 and the end of 2010.
The cost of the audit and information security business, to grow.
CAP will be amortised over the life of the plan, and the 2005 results include a charge of 1.3 million.
Operating profits from databases and information services increased 15% to 3.9 million.
The main driver Business Review of the growth was ISIs Emerging Markets Information Revenues and operating profits from publishing Service where gross sales were the highest since improved by 5% and 10% respectively.
ISIs subscription revenues increased by 20% to advertising markets remain tough as customers, $22.1 million and the revenue retention rate improved particularly the global financial institutions, continue to an all-time high of 91%.
In addition, CEIC, which to withhold marketing spend on traditional display was acquired in March, has performed ahead of advertising.
CEIC is benefiting from operating in ISIs increased by 6%, helped by the launch of new global sales environment while the cross-selling of both products such as roundtables, polls and research, as ISIs and CEICs products has exceeded expectations.
well as a focus on specialized areas such as hedge funds, private banking, real estate and project finance.
Euromoney, Asiamoney and Euroweek all achieved above average increases in advertising revenues.
The fastest growing part of the business is events, including conferences, seminars and awards dinners.
Revenues increased by 31% to 67.3 million and operating profits by 55% to 18.8 million.
This growth underpins the companys strategy of reducing its exposure to advertising and developing more robust revenue streams from sponsored conferences and membership organizations.
With the exception of Adhesion where the biennial wine exhibition Vinisud next runs in 2006, all of the groups event businesses increased profits through a combination of new products and a continued focus on building high margin, market leading events for their various sectors.
04 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 5 Cash Flow Outlook Net debt at September 30 was 65.8 million, an The outlook for financial markets in 2006 remains increase of 3.3 million since the previous year end.
positive, and the company will continue to focus on The group continues to generate strong cash flows implementing its plans for organic growth, improved with nearly 50% of its revenues generated from operating margin, and strategic acquisitions that create subscriptions and delegates.
Net cash inflows from value for shareholders.
For the new financial year the operating activities increased by 29% to 43.5 million, first quarter is the least significant in profit terms, and helping finance acquisitions and investments of more visibility for the second quarter is always limited at than 23 million.
These included the acquisitions of this stage.
However, current trading is pleasing with CEIC 4.0 million and TelCap 2.1 million : further advertising, sponsorship and delegate sales all ahead of investments under deferred consideration agreements the same period in 2004.
The Capital Appreciation Plan in HFI 5.5 million and IMN 5.4 million : and is beginning to deliver results in terms of execution, 3.7 million on a head lease and capital improvements and the company remains committed to implementing for the groups London offices.
Tax Our people across the world worked harder and more The company has traditionally had a low rate due effectively than ever to produce a record result.
I am to the tax amortization of goodwill available on US confident that they will give of their best this year, acquisitions and the availability of brought forward and I thank them on behalf of shareholders and wish tax losses for use against its US profits.
improvement in the profits of the US businesses has led to the recognition in 2005 of a deferred tax credit of 5.3 million for unused US tax losses.
This, combined with recent changes in UK tax legislation which reduce the tax benefit from US acquisitions, means the companys underlying tax rate is likely to increase from Padraic Fallon 20% in 2005 to approximately 25% in 2006.
Chairman November 23 2005. Dividend The increase in the final dividend is consistent with the companys strategy of moving gradually to a dividend cover of two times, while still delivering real dividend growth.
The total payment to shareholders for the 2005 financial year will be 14.4 million, bringing the dividends returned to shareholders over the past five years to 66 million, all financed from operating cash flows.
Management Under the terms of my service contract, I am due to retire as the companys chairman at age 60, in September 2006.
Following an independent recommendation from the nominations committee, the board has resolved to extend my retirement date under my service contract to the date of the Annual General Meeting following my 63rd birthday.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 05
