Chairmans Statement Sales via the internet continue to perform strongly I am pleased to report that your accounting for 18% of all sales against 12% last year.
company has enjoyed another record This trend is very encouraging: it provides operational cost benets and a cost effective means of year.
Sales were 9% higher at communicating with all our customers.
458.1m 2004: 421.1m whilst operating profit before goodwill We will continue to mail our customer base with increasing regularity, offering them innovative amortisation and exceptional operating merchandise at competitive prices.
Indeed last year, items grew by 20% to 60.8m although we grew sales, our customers enjoyed significant price deation on many of our products.
profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptionals We have a very strong philosophy of not becoming a me-too business.
This is important especially against rose by 17% to 48.0m a backdrop of tough retail conditions.
Earnings per share, ranges are exclusive to us and the uniqueness of our proposition is reinforced by the fact that over half of before goodwill amortisation and our customers purchase a personalised item.
The exceptionals, improved by 13% to ability to differentiate ourselves from the competition 40.89p from 36.26p.
enables us to sustain growth and margin levels.
This policy of differentiation will continue strongly in the Over the last four years we have grown our coming year.
We are investing in digital personalisation Educational Supplies division, both organically and by technology and Autumn 2005 will see the launch of way of acquisition.
In particular, following our two many new and exciting personalised lines.
This will make acquisitions in the second half of 2004, we have the best possible use of technology by using the nalised our plans to reorganise the division to obtain internet to facilitate personalisation of product maximum benefit from the opportunities available to through the use of customers own photographs.
There is an exceptional charge of 3.3m in the results, and there will be a further charge to complete In the present economic climate we believe that it the restructuring which will be charged in the current would be more prudent to concentrate a greater financial year and which we estimate will amount to no proportion of our marketing effort on developing sales more than 10m.
The restructuring is expected to be within our existing customer base with a view to completed by summer 2006 and the board is targeting maximising sales from this source.
We will maintain our benets in a full year of 8m.
level of marketing spend which increased to 31.5m in the year.
The interest charge at 12.7m 2004: 9.6m reected both increased interest rates and Educational Supplies expenditure on acquisitions.
Interest cover before The Educational Supplies division grew sales by 18% goodwill amortisation and exceptionals was 4.8 times last year to 161m 2004: 136m principally as a 2004: 5.3 times.
result of the two significant acquisitions we made in the second half.
Excluding these, the divisions Dividends turnover grew by 2%.
Operating profit before The directors are recommending a final dividend of exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased 12.9p 2004: 11.4p per share, to be paid on 7July by 9% to 15.5m 2004: 14.2m.
2005 to shareholders on the register at 10 June 2005.
This would make the total dividend for the year Both the acquisitions completed key strategic 16.4p 2004: 14.5p, an increase of 13%.
elements of our plans for the development of the division.
They have already proved their worth and are Home Shopping performing well.
Home Shopping sales continued their growth and In April 2001, our Educational Supplies division achieved a record 226m 2004: 209m, an 8% consisted of three brands, with total sales of 45m.
increase, with operating profit growing to 42.7m The growth of the division to its current 161m sales from 33.9m, an increase of 26%.
Gross margin has been achieved both organically and by acquisition.
improved by 4.1 percentage points, reecting increased contribution from financial services and Further growth areas have been identied, specically improved buying.
Customer retention remained strong, in regional commodity supplies, in secondary schools at 65% for the year, and whilst average order value and in Direct Care.
reduced slightly this was merely a reection of aggressive pricing and was more than compensated In order to reorganise the division to take advantage of for by increased order volumes.
Bad debt remained the opportunities identied, a single company rmly under control at under 6% of sales.
structure for the educational supplies businesses will 2 be introduced, and the individual business units within The sales decline of approximately 5m arises in our education will be discontinued.
mature hamper and fundraising businesses and a further planned reduction in third party work.
Although As part of the reorganisation, NRS, our Direct Care I anticipate further sales decline in the current year business, will become a completely separate stand I would expect the division to maintain this level of alone entity.
This is a very different business model operating profit.
from the rest of the division.
It operates outsourced contracts on behalf of NHS and Social Services.
Employees Whilst much of the product the Educational Supplies I thank all the groups employees for their hard work division sells is common, each company we acquired and commitment.
The success we have enjoyed would had a buying function and was buying product in such a not have been possible without their support and on way as to differentiate itself from its competitors.
The behalf of the board I would like to express our very result is that following the acquisitions we had to sincere appreciation to them.
contend with over 50,000 SKUs and too many suppliers.
We will rationalise the supplier base and Board thereby improve buying power, streamline the product range and thereby reduce warehousing and purchasing On 2 December 2004 I was pleased to welcome David costs and, through all this, improve margin.
Our Dutton to the board as group finance director.
David January and Spring 2006 catalogues will operate from has been group financial controller since September a common product range of less than 25,000 SKUs.
2001 and the board is already benefiting from his This will be achieved without compromising customer contribution.
Prospects The division is well advanced to move to a single computing platform.
Over the last two years it has Group sales in the first six weeks of the new financial successfully operated over half of the division on this year are 37% ahead of the same period last year.
platform and the transition will be completed during Excluding the two acquisitions made last year, group 2006. sales are 11% ahead with all three divisions contributing.
The rationalisation has been well thought through and planned for some time and, to assist us, we have Home Shopping sales in the period are 9% ahead of engaged external consultants with whom we have last year but with Easter falling in March this year a worked over the last 25 years.
Whilst this is a major more meaningful gure is that sales for the period project, we are confident that the business risks have been minimised and we will achieve the projected from 1 January to 6 May are 6% ahead of the same benets within the timescale we have set.
During a time when consumer confidence has been widely reported to have weakened, Whilst Government funding difficulties continued last it is particularly pleasing that Home Shopping year, the radical changes we are making to the division continues to make progress.
will result in a much improved performance.
Educational Supplies sales for the period, excluding the NRS enjoyed another extremely successful year.
Sales two acquisitions we made last year, increased by 9%.
Huntleigh The reorganisation of the Education division will provide National Care, which we acquired in November 2004, has now been fully integrated.
All the contracts now us with many exciting opportunities.
operate on our computer system and are performing in line with expectations.
With the benefit of a full years I am confident that the group will make further contribution from existing contracts, we anticipate progress in the current year.
sales of the enlarged business in the current year to be in the region of 53m.
The Telecare trial we referred to in December 2004 is now underway and we are in advanced discussions for four further trials over the next few months.
This is in preparation for the release of major Government funding for Telecare in April 2006.
Burley House Findel Services Bradford Road Although the division saw a reduction in sales from BurleyinWharfedale 76.2m to 71.1m, operating profit at 2.6m 2004: Keith Chapman West Yorkshire 2.7m was broadly maintained.
This reects tight cost control and an improvement in the margin mix.
