CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OUR STRATEGY REMAINS TO INCREASE SHAREHOLDER VALUE BY CONTINUING TO GROW IN OUR CORE BUSINESSES AND EXPLORE OPPORTUNITIES TO DEVELOP IN NEW MARKETS.
WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO A PROGRESSIVE DIVIDEND POLICY AND SHARE REPURCHASES WHILE RETAINING OUR CREDIT RATING.
The accident at Ufton Nervet in November, A number of strategic acquisitions and rail at First ScotRail and First Great Western Link in which one of our First Great Western franchise wins occurred during the year and staff who joined through acquisitions trains collided with a vehicle obstructing the which further strengthened our core made in North America.
line at a level crossing, resulted in the tragic business.
In October we commenced loss of seven lives, including our train driver.
operation of First ScotRail, Scotlands Our UK Bus business continues to generate On behalf of the Board of FirstGroup plc and national railway and the UKs largest rail strong cash ows and we are actively all of our employees I would like to express franchise, providing over 2,000 passenger working with Government and Local our condolences to the families of the services a day.
We have also been shortlisted Authorities to introduce services that meet bereaved and to the injured.
for four new rail franchises: Greater Western, the needs of the communities, alongside bus Integrated Kent, Thameslink Great Northern priority schemes and other measures to The safety of passengers and staff is and Docklands Light Railway.
In North reduce trafc congestion.
We look forward our highest priority.
Buses and trains America we made the strategic acquisition, to building on our strong record of delivery remain among the safest ways to travel through First Services, of SKE Support in the rail industry and submitting our exciting and we continuously strive to improve Services Inc. enabling us to enter the large proposals for the development of new our performance to achieve the Federal services market and almost doubling franchises.
In North America we continue highest standards.
the size of our existing services operation.
to grow our Student, Transit and Services I am pleased to report the successful businesses.
Since we entered the market six I am pleased to report another year of good integration of this business which we expect years ago we have grown First Student by progress across the Group.
Turnover has to be able to expand further.
During the year some 10,000 buses and overall we have increased to 2,693m 2004: 2,479m we made a significant acquisition in our increased earnings in our North American and profit before tax increased to 128.9m North American student business adding businesses by over 70%.
EBITDA Group operating a further 1,900 school buses to our eet.
profit plus depreciation increased to Our strategy remains to increase shareholder 319.2m 2004: 307.1m.
Adjusted basic Dr Mike Mitchell, previously Business value by continuing to grow in our core earnings per share has increased to 28.2p Change Director, who stepped down from businesses and explore opportunities to 2004: 27.3p and the Board has proposed the Board last year prior to his planned develop in new markets.
While we continue a final dividend, subject to approval by retirement, left the Group in April 2005 and to invest for growth we remain committed shareholders, of 8.69p making a full year subsequently took up the post of Director to a progressive dividend policy and share payment of 12.815p, an increase of 10%.
General of Railways at the Department for repurchases of up to 30m per annum, Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional Transport.
I would like to thank Mike for his while retaining our BBB credit rating.
items, the dividend is covered 2.2 times contribution to the Group and wish him and will be paid on 26 August 2005 to every success in his new role.
shareholders on the register on 22 July 2005.
The dividend increase reects the I would like to take this opportunity to thank Martin Gilbert Boards confidence in the Groups strong our employees for their continued hard work Chairman cash generation and growth prospects.
and commitment in delivering another year of The Board is confident that this level of strong growth and earnings, including those Operating profit referred to in this statement and in the dividend growth is sustainable for the employees at First North Western who left Chief Executives Review and Financial Review refers to medium term.
the Group during the year.
I would also like operating profit before goodwill amortisation, bid costs to welcome new employees including those and other exceptional items.
