Chairmans statement Gordon Page Chairman 04 FKI plc The weakness of the US dollar had a significant impact on the financial results for the year.
At constant currency, however, operating profits grew and cash flow from ongoing business remained strong.
The Board expects further progress in the coming year.
This is my first report to shareholders since my appointment as Further changes to Corporate Governance procedures were implemented Chairman.
As you may know, I replaced Keith Orrell-Jones who during the year to comply with best practice as set out in the revised retired from the Board in September 2004 after five years as Combined Code with which the Group is compliant.
I know you will join me in thanking Keith for his As noted in last years Remuneration Report, a comprehensive review of contribution and wishing him a long and happy retirement.
the policies and mechanisms of executive remuneration has been The general economic environment during the period was more stable than undertaken and a number of changes are being proposed.
These in the previous few years although significant changes in steel costs, the proposals, which have been discussed extensively with major shareholders weakness of the US dollar and rising US dollar interest rates all impacted and governance bodies, are outlined in the Remuneration Report and the the financial results.
The Board believes the changes will allow the Company to attract, retain and incentivise executives more effectively to deliver Overall turnover and operating profit remained relatively flat year on year.
performance in accordance with the Groups strategic business objectives.
At constant currency, however, underlying operating profit saw growth of 5.0% over the period.
Net debt at the end of the period was 351 million Your Board looks forward to continuing the good progress already achieved 2004: 349 million, which is a reduction of 26 million from 30 September in developing the portfolio of businesses in the Group.
Encouragingly this movement reflected continued strong cash flow of markets which the Group serves is predicted to remain firm during from ongoing operations, offset by the impact of rising steel costs on 2005 06 and further improvement in the performance of our ongoing inventories and the cash cost of discontinued operations.
More detail operations is planned.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all is given in the operating and financial reviews.
our employees for their efforts and commitment during a period of considerable change across the Group.
Significant progress was made on the strategy outlined last year with all businesses identified for closure either closed or sold with a cash saving of 3 million against the originally identified costs.
During the year it was announced that the Company would be withdrawing from the wind turbine business at an exceptional cost of 90 million and a cash cost of 20 million.
A number of other business disposals were also completed, some just after Gordon Page the year end, which included the Groups exit from the Lifting Products Chairman distribution activity.
Also subsequent to the year end two small acquisitions were completed to further strengthen product and geographical coverage in Lifting Products and Services.
Further realignment of the business portfolio is expected during the current year.
Reflecting the Groups underlying performance, the Board has proposed to pay a final dividend of 3.0p per share, bringing the total for the year to 4.5p per share, the same level as last year.
