Chairmans Statement Strategy Our joint venture company Multi-Link Terminals Limited MLT and 2005 was a year of achievement and change.
Our ports achieved strong associated company Tilbury Container Services Limited TCS underlying operating profit growth of 12%.
At the time of our Interim performed well on balance.
MLTs trading continued to improve Results in September we announced an evolution of our strategy to throughout the year and produced a better than expected operating introduce a longer term approach to the creation of value in our property profit.
TCS saw a lower level of volume in the second half due to container assets while allowing our shareholders to enjoy a growing dividend shipping lines consolidation which still resulted in an overall operating income supported by strong cash flows from the ports business.
The profit higher than last year but lower than expected.
security of earnings in our ports business and the value potential of Property our property assets were reflected in an independent valuation of those The City of Edinburgh Council the Council approved the Leith Docks assets carried out in August 2005 by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited Development Framework plan LDDF as Supplementary Planning DTZ.
The effect of this was to re-zone the dock estate in Leith for mixed-use development.
This enabled the Group Financial to adopt a co-ordinated long-term approach to transform an extensive Group revenue amounted to 152m, down from 162m in 2004, as a landbank into an exciting urban regeneration business.
consequence of the change in property strategy which resulted in reduced property sales of 17.3m in 2005 2004 43.9m.
The profit As part of the Boards review of strategy, DTZ was instructed to carry out before tax decreased by 7% to 58.3m 2004 62.6m.
Basic earnings a valuation of the property assets, which resulted in a Market Value of per share amounted to 97.6p 2004 100.7p.
those assets of 285m at August 2005.
The Board intends to publish an independent market value of its property assets on an annual basis.
Dividend The Directors propose a final dividend of 28.7p per share giving a total In order to achieve maximum impact and value, it was concluded that dividend for the year of 43p per share.
This is an increase of 7.8% over the development sites around Waterfront Plaza and Britannia Quay, next the prior year and is in line with the Interim Statement and the Boards to the Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre, should be re-masterplanned to policy of pursuing real levels of annual dividend per share growth.
If include the potential to expand Ocean Terminal.
This area, named the approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the final Hub, will form an attractive and vibrant heart for Edinburghs waterfront.
dividend will be paid on 12th May 2006 to all shareholders on the Register at 18th April 2006.
The property division has continued to invest in the infrastructure at Western Harbour and Granton as part of the longer term regeneration Ports of the area.
Meanwhile, in Dundee, the opportunity was taken to sell two The ports business performed well in 2005 with a 12% increase in further development sites and the City Quay Retail Centre.
The cash underlying operating profit to 36m 2004 32.2m.
Tilbury continued realised from these sales amounted to over 16m which will be reinvested its good first half financial performance into the second half on a volume in further property infrastructure works.
throughput which was marginally up over 2004.
The Scottish Ports also produced a good second half result with a better than expected People performance particularly from containers and coal.
Marine activities were We are extremely grateful to all who work for the Group for their efforts slightly up on last year, with a downturn in piped cargo more than offset and contribution over the last year.
by an improvement from towage.
As announced in December, Terry Smith, our Property Director, will Following a major increase in container volumes at Grangemouth over retire at the Annual General Meeting in May after fifteen years with the the past few years and as part of our modernisation and investment Company.
Terry has made a great contribution to the regeneration of Leith programme, a shift system of working has been introduced in 2006. through his vision and energy.
We wish him well in his retirement.
Nathan A review of manpower requirements will result in the recruitment of Thompson, Terrys deputy, has, with effect from 1st January 2006, new employees to replace a number taking voluntary redundancy.
The become Managing Director of the property division.
The property team redundancy cost of 1.5m has been provided for in the 2005 accounts.
has also been strengthened with two additional senior project executives.
At Tilbury, the Enterprise Distribution Centre for Stora Enso, our largest We are pleased to welcome David Richardson, former Group Finance ever single investment in one port, was completed on time and within Director of Whitbread plc, as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman budget.
During the eighteen month build period, one third of Tilburys of the Audit Committee.
He joined the Board in June 2005. business was successfully relocated, providing enhanced facilities for existing customers and a more efficient layout of the port.
Unfortunately, Outlook the Finnish paper dispute disrupted the initial commissioning period We have a wide ranging action plan for various property projects to which resulted in a slower and more challenging transfer of business provide long-term growth in net asset value.
These projects include the than expected.
development of a new masterplan for the Hub and the submission of an outline planning application for the LDDF area.
We are also encouraged At the end of October last year, a valuation of our port investment that funding, in principle, is available for Line 1 of the Tram which will properties prior to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS connect Leith with the city centre and airport.
called tenanted land and buildings and other investment properties was carried out by Bidwells, Property Consultants: this produced an In ports, we have an active project pipeline and this, combined with increase in market value of 28m since the last valuation in December progress on existing business initiatives, gives the Board confidence 2003.
This increase has been included in the accounts, net of deferred that 2006 should be another year of progress.
The income stream from the port investment properties was used by DTZ as part of the valuation of our port assets.
Before increase in fair value of port investment properties of 28.2m Christopher Collins 2004 nil and one off items see page 27.
Chairman 20th March 2006 4 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
