Business Review Chairmans Statement Focusing on long term growth Group results Although 2005 was a challenging year for George Wimpey, we emerged from it stronger and better placed for the future.
The Board remains confident in The housing market in the UK remained difficult throughout the year, with the total number of housing the underlying strength and cash transactions for 2005 17% below the previous year.
Against this background, our businesses did well to generative capability of the Group.
deliver total UK volumes similar to last year as well as signicantly increasing our forward order position We are therefore proposing an entering 2006.
The increased use of incentives needed to achieve this, along with the impact of a shorter increase of 10% in the dividend landbank, resulted in reduced operating profits and margins.
By contrast the US housing markets in which over 2004. we operate remained very strong, with national housing starts reaching record levels.
We continued to push forward strongly with our growth plans and delivered higher volumes, margins and operating profits.
In the US too, we have come into the new year with a far stronger order book.
Total turnover for the Group rose slightly to 3,003.2 million 2004: 2,976.0 million.
Reecting the more challenging market conditions in the UK, Group profit before tax fell to 366.5 million 2004: 437.6 million, 16% below the record levels achieved last year.
Dividend We remain committed to delivering long term growth in both of our housebuilding businesses.
Although the UK business experienced difficult trading conditions during 2005, the Board remain confident in the underlying strength and cash generative capability of the Group.
We are therefore proposing an increase of 10% in the final dividend to 11.9 pence per share.
Following the 10% increase in the interim dividend, if approved at our Annual General Meeting, our recommended increase would bring the total dividend relative to the year to 17.6 pence per share.
This represents a Dividend per share pence rise of 10% on 2004 and a cumulative rise of 113% over the past five years.
20 The Board During 2005 I have been delighted to welcome two new independent Non Executive Directors 16 to the Board.
Tony Reading joined us on 15 April, having previously been an Executive Director of Tomkins Plc and Chairman and Chief Executive of Tomkins Corp, USA.
Tony has brought with him a 12 wealth of operational experience gained both within the UK and the US.
Robert Sharpe, Chief Executive of The Portman Building Society, joined us on 1 September as Mike Blackburn stood down as a Non 8 Executive Director.
Robert brings with him a wealth of experience from the financial services sector and will provide insight into the housing finance market.
Mike has been a highly respected member 4 of the Board for six years and held the positions of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director.
David Williams succeeded Mike as our Senior Independent Director.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Mike for the tremendous contribution made during 0 01 02 03 04 05 his time with the Company.
4 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 8.25 9.1 12.25 16.0 17.6 Business Review On 21 November, we announced that Stu Cline would be retiring as Chairman of Morrison Homes and as a Director of George Wimpey Plc at the end of December 2005.
Stu joined Morrison Homes in 1994 and has been the driving force behind the enormous success of our US housing business.
Since joining the Board in December 2000, Stu has made a valued contribution not only to the success of the US business but also to the Group as a whole.
I was very pleased that we were able to announce that Steve Parker, who took over from Stu as President of Morrison Homes at the beginning of 2005, would join the Board as an Executive Director as from 1 January 2006.
In October 2000 Peter Johnson joined George Wimpey as Group Chief Executive charged with the task of transforming the performance of our Company.
There can be no doubt that over the past five years, with Peters direction, this business has been transformed and it is in a much stronger position today than it was when he took over.
Over the past five years total shareholder returns have been signicantly above those of the UK housebuilding sector.
As well as delivering major operational changes and improvements, he successfully managed the internal succession of Peter Redfern to Chief Executive of our UK business at the beginning of 2004 and of Steve Parker to President of Morrison Homes at the beginning of 2005.
With this in place, Peter has now concluded that he believes this is the right time for the business, and for him, to hand over the reins and that he wishes to retire from George Wimpey with effect from 30 June 2006.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Peter both personally and on behalf of the Board for all that he has done to create a stronger, more unied business and one that is now in a position to move forward again.
I am particularly pleased that during his time as Group Chief Executive, Peter has been able to develop his Over the past five years George Wimpey has been transformed successor from within the business.
Peter Redfern has been appointed Deputy Chief Executive with effect and the business today is in a from 21 February 2006 to work alongside Peter until his retirement to ensure a smooth transition for all in much stronger position than it was the business.
Peter Redfern will be appointed Group Chief Executive on Peters retirement.
Total shareholder returns in this period Employees have been signicantly above those We are fortunate to have a dedicated and loyal work force whose continuing support and hard work of the UK housebuilding sector.
has helped to strengthen our business.
On behalf of the Board I would like to take this opportunity once again to thank all of our employees in the UK and the US for all they have achieved over the past year.
Outlook In the UK, the improvement that we experienced at the end of 2005 has continued and we remain encouraged by growing signs of returning buyer confidence.
Although it is too early to predict the market for the year, the level of transactions in the first seven weeks of the new year has started to increase, and in some areas we are reducing incentives.
In the relatively stable price conditions we expect in the near future, we are confident that our stronger order book gives us a better negotiating position to reduce incentives.
Towards the end of 2005 the market across much of the US slowed as the rapid pace of price growth experienced since mid 2004 moderated.
Morrison had already taken early action to increase its order book and entered 2006 with a strong forward sales position in terms of volume, price and margin.
Industry projections forecast only a modest reduction in volumes to levels which remain historically high.
