Chairmans statement Although industry costs have risen I am pleased to report on another solid performance by the group based on our focus on the UK, in particular on regions sharply, the commitment of our of stronger economic and demographic growth.
Turnover in management and staff, together with the year increased to 1,306 million 2004 1,244 million, with profit before exceptional items, goodwill and tax rising to the prospects for continuing growth 95.9 million 2004 91.3 million.
Adjusted earnings per share in our markets, give us confidence rose to 122.5p 2004 110.3p.
in the future of your company.
Safety remains at the heart of the business and we continue to ensure that our systems and procedures meet the highest standards.
We are, therefore, pleased that Routemaster buses on normal services were withdrawn shortly after the year-end, and the operation of slam-door trains is due to end on schedule in November.
Although occurring just after the year-end, the recent terrorist activity in London underlines the need for our proactive approach to on-board CCTV and extra security measures.
Although our services were not directly affected, I should like to record the boards appreciation of the professionalism of our staff in coping with the aftermath of the attacks and in returning services to normality as quickly as possible.
Go-Ahead has invested consistently in training and developing the skills of all staff, and in facilities and equipment used to operate services to provide for future growth.
During the year, we have opened a new depot for the Oxford Bus Company, acquired a substantial new site for Metrobus in Croydon, and started reconstructing the Metrobus depot in Orpington and modernising the Lewes Road depot in Brighton.
Our investment in new trains and modernised depots at our Southern rail franchise is now delivering signicantly improved train services.
Growth has continued on our bus and rail services in London and on the South Coast.
We were therefore pleased to buy Southern Vectis PLC shortly before the year-end.
This business adds local bus services in Southampton and the Isle of Wight, complementing those taken on two years ago through the acquisition of Wilts and Dorset.
The aviation services market remains highly competitive but the performance of our businesses has improved, assisted by the acquisition of the remaining 50% shareholding in Plane Handling from Virgin Aviation.
The group now has a stronger presence and growing reputation at Heathrow.
The failure to pre-qualify for the Thameslink and Great Western franchises was disappointing.
However, we continue to compete for the Integrated Kent franchise and intend to retain a strong presence in the UK rail market.
Although industry costs have risen sharply, the commitment of our management and staff, together with the prospects for continuing growth in our markets, give us confidence in the future of your company.
With this background, your board remains committed to a progressive dividend and share buy-back policy.
Therefore, we propose a final dividend of 33.0p 2004 27.0p per share payable on 25 November 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 November 2005.
This would produce a total dividend for the year of 48.0p 2004 38.0p, reducing the dividend cover to 2.6 times 2004 2.9 times adjusted earnings, in line with our stated policy of reaching the peer group average.
20 million has so far been invested in the share buy-back policy announced in February 2005 following the interim results and this will be continued in the current year.
Sir Patrick Brown Sir Patrick Brown Chairman Chairman 8 September 2005 2 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005
