CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairman Laurel acquisition I would like to begin by paying tribute to We acquired the 432 pubs which made up the Laurel David McCall, who retired on 1 May neighbourhood estate for 654 million last summer, completing 2005 after ten years as the chairman of the deal on 6 August 2004.
The integration process, named The the company.
Personally, I count myself best of both worlds to reflect our aim of recognising and retaining very fortunate to have served under the particular operational strengths of both our own Pub him.
He was highly supportive of me in Company and Laurel, was completed very successfully in my role as chief executive and has led February, ahead of schedule.
We have been able to transfer 117 the company and the board with great distinction.
We have all pubs from Pub Company to our Pub Partners division as a result come a long way together in the last decade and have done so of the Laurel deal, which has further helped to improve the quality with a very happy board of directors under Davids leadership.
thanks are due to him in great measure and we will miss the invaluable mixture of his cheerful style and shrewd business Dividend sense.
I am sure that he will be a hard act to follow and we all wish The board recommends a final net dividend of 25.85 pence per David the very best in his retirement.
share, which will produce an increase of 10 per cent in the total net dividend for the year to 36.3 pence per share.
The final Results dividend, if approved, will be paid on 12 September 2005 to those I am delighted to be reporting on another year of strong profit shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 August growth for the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2005.
Our three 2005. trading divisions have all played their part in producing these record results and we have also benefited from the first 39 weeks Finance of trading contribution from our acquisition of the Laurel We have a very strong balance sheet which is backed by our neighbourhood estate.
Turnover for the year was up 33 per cent extensive freehold pub assets and highly positive free cash flow.
to 732.6 million and trading profit increased by 39 per cent to This allowed us to finance the Laurel acquisition by raising extra 155.7 million.
Our profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional debt rather than having to resort to the more costly option of items rose by 14 per cent to 94.0 million and adjusted earnings issuing more equity.
At the year-end our debt stood at 1020.2 per share by 14 per cent to 91.5 pence.
We have increased our million, equivalent to a debt to equity ratio of 149 per cent and an earnings per share by more than 10 per cent per annum interest cover multiple of 2.5 times, figures with which we feel very compound over the last eleven years.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT and an increase in the trading profit margin across a much larger Securitisation business.
The initial funding for the Laurel deal was arranged through a short-term bank Pub Partners loan, with the intention that we would Our tenanted and leased division started the year with 1153 and renegotiate this quickly into a mixture of finished with 1244 pubs after receiving the Pub Company transfers.
securitised debt and a medium term Their key task was to find the best possible new tenants and bank loan.
We subsequently raised lessees for the transferred pubs in considerable numbers within a 600 million through a securitisation fairly short space of time.
This has been done and the trading profit package, against 904 managed and for the division was well ahead of last year, not merely in quantum, tenanted pubs, at very advantageous but in terms of average trading profit per pub.
terms and 450 million from a 5 year bank loan.
This complemented funding of 150 million already in Brewing Company place.
The re-financing exercise was completed in March 2005.
Our brewing division has had another great year and the reputation of our own-brewed ale brands spreads ever wider.
Greene King IPA Assets became the biggest selling cask ale in Britain during the year, while We sold 51 properties during the year, consisting of a mix of nonboth Old Speckled Hen and Abbot Ale have seen their sales volumes strategic managed houses unsuitable for conversion to tenancy or increase too.
The fastest growing markets for us were our national lease, non-sustainable smaller tenanted pubs, a few short account sales to other pub groups and our take home sales to leasehold properties and some unlicensed properties.
The asset supermarkets, but we also sold more beer through the independent sales totalled 45.6 million, on which we made a surplus of 13.4 free trade and export markets.
The trading profit and its percentage million over book value.
margin to turnover have increased again.
Pub Company Non-executive directors Our managed house division began the year trading through 528 Graham Greene retired from the board at last years AGM and we pubs.
Pub Company then became the main beneficiary of the included a valediction to him in our 2004 report.
In March 2005 Laurel acquisition and spent about six months in a climate of we were pleased to welcome Jane Scriven to our board as a nonconsiderable change, with the heavy responsibility of managing executive director.
She was a director of Geest plc for the last 9 the integration process.
This was completed very successfully and years running their continental European operations and is also a at the year-end, after a number of transfers to Pub Partners and qualified solicitor.
We believe she will be a great asset to us.
selective sales, Pub Company was running 820 managed houses.
Since the year-end, we are equally pleased to have been joined by The trading results were very solid, with positive like for like sales 4 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT John Brady as our fifth non-executive director.
He has been a consultant with McKinsey & Co for twenty-four years and we look forward to benefiting from his extensive marketing and retailing experience.
People This has been another great year for the company and I want to thank our employees and licensees very much for their skill, hard work, commitment and loyalty which have made it possible.
We have welcomed large numbers of people from Laurel into Greene King and we respect the special talents which they have brought to us, just as we hope that they will benefit from being part of a fully integrated company with three increasingly profitable trading divisions.
Together we are stronger and we all look forward to the future with confidence.
Tim Bridge Chairman 5 July 2005 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 5 6 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05
