Overview CHAIRMANS 2005 was an outstanding year for Gyrus: our business STATEMENT performed extremely well, we successfully acquired American Cystoscope Makers Inc ACMI, which more than doubled our size and we ended the year in the FTSE-250 index having enjoyed a significant increase in equity value since the mid year.
Our business Divisions made substantial progress and we successfully organised the structure of the enlarged business in time to capitalise on a strong finish to the year and position ourselves for some important new product launches in 2006.
The Groups reported sales revenue increased by 73% to 150.4 million 2004: 86.9 million.
50.4 million derived from the acquisition of ACMI in July, however the existing Gyrus business posted revenue of 99.9 million which represented sterling growth of 15% 14% on a constant currency basis.
Our revenue performance together with continued management of operating costs resulted in growth in Adjusted Earnings Per Share of 27% to 14.2p 2004: 11.2p.
Acquisition of ACMI During the year the Group announced the acquisition of ACMI, a market leader in urology and a leading developer and manufacturer of endoscopy systems.
The rationale for the acquisition centred around the combined Groups leading market positions in Urology and Gynaecology.
The combination of Gyrus and ACMIs core technologies in PK tissue management and digital visualisation respectively enables the Group to provide class leading See and Treat products to surgeons focused on minimally invasive, or keyhole surgery.
Business review Brian Steer 2005 saw revenue growth across the Gyrus business.
Executive Chairman Since the acquisition of ACMI in July, we have restructured our business so that it now comprises three principal Divisions which form our proprietary business.
In addition we retain the Partnered Technologies Division as a non-proprietary business.
The Divisions are as follows: Gyrus ACMI Urology & Gynaecology Division OUR STRATEGY This Division focuses primarily on endoscopic surgery including cysto-resection, lithotripsy, endometrial ablation Provide the highest quality product in and associated procedures.
It represents the acquired tissue management and visualisation ACMI business, which is based in Boston and enjoys Differentiate product portfolios through market leadership in the Urology field.
Revenue from this Division comprised approximately 50.4 million during technological performance the period 2004: nil.
Focus on leadership in selected markets Gynaecology Urology ENT Gyrus ACMI Surgical Division The Surgical Division is focused on the growing Attain a platform for entry into the general market for laparoscopic surgery.
It has built on the surgery market strong position Gyrus had in the laparoscopic bipolar instruments market, particularly the hysterectomy procedure, and now has a portfolio of products available and in development to address the much larger general surgery market.
Based in Minneapolis, the Division posted global revenue growth of 29% to 37.2 million 2004: 28.8 million.
Gyrus ACMI ENT Division This Division focuses on providing a broad portfolio of surgical devices to Ear, Nose and Throat specialists in otology, sinus and rhinology and head and neck surgery.
Based in Memphis, the Division grew its global revenues by 4.5% to 40.1 million 2004: 38.4 million.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 02 REVENUES BY DIVISION Urology & Gynaecology 34% ENT 27% Surgical 24% Partnered Technologies 15% A semi-rigid Ureteroscope Gyrus ACMI Partnered Technologies Division A urology scope designed to This Division exploits the Groups technology in markets pass along the ureters to enable the visualisation and where the Group has no proprietary presence, by outtreatment of kidney stones.
licensing and manufacturing products for third parties including Johnson & Johnson, Guidant and Conmed.
The Division, which is run out of Minneapolis but with significant operations in Cardiff, showed a very strong turnaround between the first half revenue decline of 0.5% to finish the year with global revenue growth of 15% to 22.7 million 2004: 19.7 million.
Sales and Marketing Since the acquisition of ACMI the Group has re-branded its trading name to reflect the combination of two strong businesses in the respective areas of See ACMIs leading position in visualisation for surgery and Treat Gyruss leading position in minimally invasive tissue management.
We now market under the name Gyrus ACMI.
We have strengthened the marketing resource in each Division, which now supports a US sales force providing the highest quality package of products to surgeons in its core area of surgery.
In total we now have approximately 290 sales representatives in the US market and an additional 56 international sales staff looking after our direct and distributor-based markets outside the US.
Internationally, we have been slower to consolidate our distributor base and have focused primarily on integration in territories where we have a direct presence.
These now comprise: The UK, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Australia and New Zealand.
The latter two territories were added in 2005 through the acquisition of Urology Solutions Pty Limited in Australia, since renamed Gyrus Australasia Pty Limited, and a sister company in New Zealand.
In addition we have embarked upon the process of opening a direct representative office in China, which we aim to build upon during 2006.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 03 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED The PlasmaSpatula A cutting and sealing instrument, launched in 2005, which is most commonly used in the fully laparoscopic hysterectomy procedure.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 04 Board Mark Goble has resigned as a Non-Executive Director of Gyrus in order to devote his energies to the development of Rhytec Limited, in which the Group continues to hold 150.4m an investment.
Mark founded Gyrus in 1989 and both the Board and I have valued his technological drive and Group revenues enthusiasm to change surgical practice throughout his 2004: 86.9m time with the Group.
We wish him and the Rhytec team well in 2006.
As a result of the acquisition and the timing of the associated integration process, the Nomination Committee 21.3m of the Board has invited me to extend my tenure as Chairman by approximately six months to the end of 2007.
Adjusted operating profit This is designed to ensure management stability and 2004: 10.1m continued accountability during this important period for the Group.
The Committee has commenced on a process of succession planning for both executive and nonexecutive Board members.
A resolution to approve my proposed contract extension will be considered at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in May.
Integration of ACMI Our first integration goal was to create the new Divisions and align the combined Groups product Research and development range and sales forces appropriately.
Certain products Research and development remains an important driver have been exchanged between the Urology & of our business and we continue to invest substantially Gynaecology Division former ACMI and the Surgical in creating future growth opportunities for the Group.
These exchanges were completed by the year-end and did not materially affect divisional In 2005 the Group increased its R&D spend by over performance in 2005.
This increase was partly associated with the acquisition of ACMI and In January 2006 we announced to employees that with the continuing cost of defending an intellectual our plant in Racine, Wisconsin would close over the property infringement action.
However the development next 18 months with products being transferred to of our new PlasmaCision platform resulted in a significant Minneapolis and Norwalk during that period.
We are increase in R&D expenditure in the legacy Gyrus also at the final stage of selecting the Groups new Divisions where significant resource continues to be Global ERP system, a project whose implementation devoted to product development.
will span the three-year integration period to mid 2008.
This investment has produced some potentially significant In overall terms we have embarked successfully on the new products derived from our PK PlasmaCision and integration process which supports the potential value digital visualisation technologies which will be introduced of the benefits that will accrue over the period, however to the market during the course of 2006. we recognise that these initiatives are significant and, carrying an associated level of risk, require strong Management and staff management focus to ensure a successful outcome.
Since the acquisition of ACMI we have restructured our management team in order to deliver the integration Summary and outlook plan and the future growth prospects of the combined In 2005, Gyrus delivered very strong revenue and profit business.
A new Executive Committee comprising the growth whilst undertaking, and commencing integration three executive directors, Tom Murphy the US-based of, a transforming acquisition.
2006 represents exciting Executive Vice President and Frank DAmelio the Chief opportunities for the Group through the continued Technology Officer, was formed to oversee integration integration of Gyrus and ACMI, and the introduction of and the development and implementation of the significant new products derived from our PlasmaCision enlarged Groups strategy.
These products will expand our See and Treat surgical platform and Group activity is primarily directed by the eleven support our entry into the strategically important general strong Operating Board, which comprises Executive surgery market.
Committee members, the Division Presidents, the US-based Vice President of Finance and the Vice 2006 is the foundation year for our long term goal of President of Legal Affairs.
becoming a leader in minimally invasive surgery and we have embarked on it with due care and a high degree of The Groups performance in 2005 is a testament to the confidence.
quality and skill of Gyrus ACMI staff around the world: I thank them for their enthusiasm and commitment, Brian Steer particularly during this crucial post-acquisition period.
Executive Chairman Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 05 WE HAVE THE VISION TO ENABLE SURGICAL INNOVATION WE HAVE THE POWER OF A WELL BALANCED PORTFOLIO
