Chairmans Statement Rob Templeman This first set of full year results as a The Board would also like to place on publicly listed company demonstrates record its appreciation for the the strength and growth potential of valuable contribution made by David our business, which has a unique Hamid, our former Chief Executive, position as the UKs leading auto, who announced his retirement from leisure and cycling products retailer.
the Group in March this year because of ill health.
Halfords continued to improve performance and grow market share We were fortunate in being able to by building on its unique advantages appoint Ian McLeod as Chief of greater scale than its competitors, Executive.
Ian has outstanding a differentiated customer service credentials for the job.
He has been proposition through the Well Fit It with the Group since September initiative and from the continued 2003 and as Chief Operating Officer development programme of new and played an important role in running exciting products.
the business alongside David and the senior management team.
In the 52 weeks to 1 April 2005, We have a strong and and against a backdrop of a more The Board is committed to the differentiated business challenging retail market, we highest standards of corporate with a proven strategy achieved sales growth across all governance and corporate social four of our key product categories responsibility, as explained in more for growth, which of car maintenance, car detail later in this report.
provides a solid platform enhancement, cycling and travel from which to build and solutions, whilst continuing to keep The Board is recommending a give us confidence about firm control of costs.
final dividend of 8.3p per share in addition to the 3.7p per share interim the growth prospects for By the end of the financial year, the dividend already paid, bringing the the future.
Group was operating from 398 total dividend for the year to 12.0p stores across the UK and the per share.
Republic of Ireland as we continued to roll out our store development Although the UK retail climate has programme of introducing mezzanine become more subdued, we have a floors, improving store layouts and strong and differentiated business opening in new locations.
with a proven strategy for growth, which provides a solid platform from Our success would not have been which to build and gives us possible without the huge confidence about the growth contribution from our 9,940 prospects for the future.
employees, whose passion, knowledge and enthusiasm are crucial in giving Halfords competitive Rob Templeman, Chairman advantage in the retail marketplace.
8 June 2005 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3 Employee focus Isla Rowntree Halfords Head of Bike Design & Sourcing Andy Smallwood Halfords Cycle Accessories Assistant Product Manager Glorious mud Former British Cycle Champion, Isla, and Halfords Development Squad road rider, Andy, have turned their passion into their profession, and are dedicated to designing and sourcing cycles and cycle accessories for Bikehut.
Isla is pictured putting Halfords own brand Carrera bike through its paces.
4 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005
