HALMA Chairmans Statement We are having success but it is patchy, we need to do more faster.
The Group produced a profit before of control: others were more long-term, tax of 50.4 million, another record such as resource allocation and the profit for Halma just.
efficiency of our balance sheet.
We are continuing to upgrade the quality of The year was characterised by our management right across the significant change within the Group Group and particularly at subsidiary some of it visible, some less so.
most visible change was the appointment of Andrew Williams as All aspects of selling have received CEO at the end of February 2005, particular attention and we are having been appointed Deputy CEO in disappointed not to see better December 2004.
Andrew succeeded progress on the revenue line.
Stephen OShea who reaches the However, in common with many normal retirement age for Halma this sectors, we face continuing pressure year, and on behalf of the Board I from price transparency via the should like to record our gratitude to internet and deflationary trends Stephen for all that he has contributed through lower manufacturing costs.
to the Group during his career with us.
Our response is the continual re-design The succession process has gone and improvement of our products, extremely smoothly and Andrew is allowing more outsourcing and offbringing a fresh impetus to our shore production as we re-double our operations I encourage those of you efforts on innovation.
We are having that can, to meet him at our AGM.
success but it is patchy, we need to do more faster.
Last year I referred to a number of factors that the Board and senior In terms of our sectoral performance management felt could possibly be more detail is given in the Chief holding back our performance.
Some Executives Review : Resistors of them were issues that could be continued to have a difficult year and quickly addressed e. g. incentives, span the problems there are being tackled see Financial Highlights 4 Halma p. l. c. 2005 HALMA Chairmans Statement continued in new ways and with renewed Prospects vigour.
Water too had a tough year.
We have strong market positions Other sectors held their own or and we are highly cash generative.
We are accelerating our own rate of change particularly on innovation.
Our two new acquisitions Diba Industries, Inc. and Ocean Optics, Overall, despite little fundamental Inc. performed extremely well, help from our markets, we remain exceeding our expectations.
cautiously optimistic for the year ahead.
The results Profit before tax was a record 50.4 million previous year 50.3 million and earnings per share were slightly down at 9.42p previous year 9.44p.
On a statutory basis, profit before taxation and earnings per share were Geoff Unwin 44.9 million and 7.97p respectively.
These results were produced despite adverse currency translation impacts and raw material movements of the order of 2.5 million.
The return on the capital that our managers control was a clear all time record for a full year at 62% a staggering achievement, and return on total invested capital including all goodwill was 13.1% far exceeding our cost of capital.
Net cash at the year end was 12 million.
Turnover edged ahead by 2% to 299 million previous year 293 million.
Excluding discontinued operations, sales increased by 7%.
The Board recommend a final dividend of 3.92 pence per share giving an increase of 5% for the year.
On behalf of the Board, I should like to thank all our employees for their dedication in producing this record result, and also for their imagination in continually improving our products and service to our customers.
see Financial Highlights Halma p. l. c. 2005 5
