02 Alliance UniChem Plc Chairmans introduction The Group is driven with an entrepreneurial spirit and zest for growth.
Paolo Scaroni Chairman 28 February 2006 Financial results Performance overview I am pleased to report that Operating profit which comprises profit from The Groups wholesale division performed well throughout 2005 the Group has operations before share of associates post tax in relatively difficult market conditions which continued to perform strongly, earnings and exceptional items as classified by led to slower market growth, our underlying Alliance UniChem increased year on year by performance improving as the year progressed.
extending our long established 7.1% to 261.0 million, an increase of 14.5% Throughout 2005 our retail division continued track record of delivering excellent when we include our share of operating profit to perform strongly, despite slow market financial results year after year.
Adjusted profit for the year growth, resulting in a healthy increase in attributable to equity shareholders which is operating margins and like for like operating This has been achieved largely after tax and excludes exceptional items and profits.
Performance from our associate through the continuation of IAS 39 timing differences increased by 16.1% businesses was well ahead of our expectations, organic sales growth and an to 197.3 million.
Our key measure, adjusted driven by Hedef Alliance in Turkey which ongoing focus on margin diluted earnings per share, increased by 14.0% performed particularly well.
Unadjusted diluted management, cost control and Proposed merger with Boots Group PLC earnings per share grew by 10.4% to On 3 October 2005 the Boards of Alliance working capital efficiency.
58.3 pence per share, the total gain from UniChem and Boots Group PLC Boots The balance of our activities and exceptional items and IAS 39 timing differences announced that they had agreed the terms of being lower in 2005 than the exceptional geographical spread has again a recommended merger to create Alliance gains in 2004. provided resilience to short-term Boots, an international pharmacy-led healthcare Dividend group.
The proposed merger is subject to a fluctuations in individual markets.
The Board is recommending a final dividend number of pre-conditions and conditions, as set of 13.6 pence per share, making a total out in the detailed announcement released to dividend for the year of 20.5 pence per share.
the regulatory news service on 3 October 2005, The proposed final dividend is 11.0% higher a copy of which was sent to Alliance UniChem than the 2004 final dividend, the total dividend shareholders with the exception of those for the year being up 10.8%.
The proposed shareholders not permitted to receive it for final dividend will be paid on 10 May 2006 to regulatory reasons.
shareholders on the register at the close of On 1 December 2005 the European business on 10 March 2006.
The Board will, Commission referred the proposed merger in its as with the interim dividend, offer shareholders entirety to the Office of Fair Trading OFT the opportunity to reinvest their final cash having concluded that it posed no competition dividend in buying existing issued shares in concerns outside the UK under applicable the Company through a dividend EU competition laws.
On 7 February 2006 the reinvestment plan.
OFT announced its decision not to refer the proposed merger to the UK Competition Commission provided that satisfactory undertakings to address competition concerns arising from the supply of retail pharmacy 03 Alliance UniChem Plc Outlook services in around 100 local areas in the UK largest pharmacy chain.
This brought our retail were given.
Alliance UniChem and Boots are portfolio to 1,288 pharmacies at 31 December The strength and diversity of the Group has working closely with the OFT to agree 2005, including 123 operated by associates.
enabled us to deliver in 2005 another year of appropriate undertakings.
Anticipated Since the year end we have announced that announcements on this work will be made growth in the UK market in 2006 combined we are to enter the Russian market through the in due course.
with appropriate action by our local acquisition of a 96% controlling stake in the management teams should continue to counter The merger documentation will not be issued parent company of Apteka Holding ZAO, the the effects on the Group of regulatory reviews, to Alliance UniChem or Boots shareholders until fifth largest pharmaceutical wholesaler in particularly in France, as governments all the merger pre-conditions have been Russia.
Apteka reported sales of approximately continually strive to contain costs at satisfied or waived.
The merger will be 115 million in the year ended 31 March 2005 manageable levels.
implemented by way of an offer made on and operates a network of 20 depots across behalf of Boots for Alliance UniChem, unless the country.
The consideration for the stake will We continue to focus on improving the the parties agree to effect the merger through be approximately 18 million and in addition performance of all our businesses through a scheme of arrangement.
In that event, the we will assume approximately 10 million of our commitment to consistently delivering scheme of arrangement will be implemented net debt.
The Russian pharmaceutical superior customer service, our expertise in on the same terms, as far as applicable, as the wholesale market, which we estimate to be margin management and our drive for further merger offer.
currently worth over 3 billion, is anticipated to productivity savings and synergies.
This is grow at low double digit growth rates for the combined with our strong emphasis on Other corporate developments foreseeable future.
Apteka is well positioned to working capital efficiency and cash generation During 2005 we strengthened further our benefit from ongoing growth opportunities.
portfolio of businesses by increasing our direct ownership of Alloga, one of Europes Board changes This focus, together with the strength and leading specialist healthcare logistics and preI was honoured to be appointed as nondiversity of the Group, our opportunities for wholesaling providers, and by acquiring two executive Chairman of your Company in April geographic expansion and the commercial well-positioned regional wholesaling businesses 2005, succeeding Jeff Harris who retired from initiatives that we are taking to drive growth, in Spain.
In June we entered into a strategic the Board after nearly 19 years as a Director.
make us confident about our businesses partnership with the Portuguese national Per Utnegaard, our former Wholesale Director, commercial and financial prospects.
association of pharmacies and an independent resigned from the Board in March 2005 The proposed merger with Boots presents us investment company with interests in the following the decision that Ian Meakins should with a very exciting future.
The combination of Portuguese healthcare industry, selling 49% of have direct responsibility for the Groups major the two groups will provide a unique our wholesale business in Portugal to the wholesale businesses.
opportunity to combine complementary association and 2% to the independent Neil Cross, the Chairman of our audit strengths to create an international force in investment company.
committee, was scheduled to retire at the pharmacy retailing whilst reinforcing our Growth in our retail network has continued to forthcoming Annual General Meeting in April commitment to the independent pharmacist be robust.
In 2005 we added a net 106 after nine years service as a non-executive through enhanced wholesale distribution and pharmacies to our portfolio of which 16 were Director.
He has agreed to put himself forward related services.
in associates, including 50 when we entered for re-election to the Board for another year in the Northern Ireland market through the order to maintain continuity during the period acquisition of Bairds Chemists, the regions prior to the proposed merger with Boots.
