Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT over the prior year.
Net fees of 470.6 million 2004 404.7 million, were 16% ahead of last year.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation was 167.1 million 2004 133.4 million, an increase of 25%.
The profit growth exceeded fee growth as the conversion rate increased to 35.5% 2004 33.0%.
At the interim we reported strong growth and that has continued through the second half.
In the United Kingdom & Ireland, which continues to be our largest market, growth was generated across all our major specialist activities.
Australia & New Zealand grew substantially and outperformed the market.
Hays penetration of Continental THE EXECUTIVE TEAM IS ABLE TO Europe & Canada continued and we generated record net fees and profits IDENTIFY OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUR in the region.
GROUP WITH PACE AND ENTHUSIASM.
Our strategy is to roll out our specialist business model internationally Bob Lawson, Chairman and the results achieved demonstrate the potential available.
The Group profit and loss account I am proud to be able to report record includes the results of discontinued profits for your Specialist Recruitment operations, including DX Services until business on conclusion of the Group its demerger on 1 November 2004. transformation.
These results have Discontinued activities generated been achieved entirely from organic 8.4 million of operating profit in growth and, once again, this underlines the year 2004 48.1 million.
the fundamental quality of the Hays Group profit before tax, goodwill business model.
As detailed in Deniss amortisation and exceptional items was report, these record earnings have been 180.3 million 2004 181.0 million achieved whilst continuing to invest and Group profit before tax was substantially in our geographic and 191.5 million 2004 147.7 million.
sector coverage both in the United Kingdom and overseas.
A direct benefit Cash ow of the transformation and subsequent The Groups relentless focus on focus is that the executive team is able the management of cash produced to identify the emerging opportunities for excellent operating cash ow your Group with pace and enthusiasm.
I from Specialist Recruitment of expect the development and exploitation 158.0 million 2004 104.5 million, of these opportunities to provide 51% ahead of last year.
significant opportunities for future growth.
The growth and productivity Discontinued activities and achieved has enabled the business to exceptional credits invest substantially a 19% increase DX Services was successfully demerged in recruitment consultants, 80 new from the Group on 1 November 2004. business units and 27 new ofces I would like to thank Chairman John provide a platform for future growth.
We Maxwell, his executive team and the now have 5,269 staff, 326 ofces and staff of DX Services for their effort and 723 business units across 16 countries.
professionalism and we wish them well These record results reinforce for the future.
The Group also disposed the fundamental stability of the Hays of its equity investment in Albion Group business model.
Whilst the recruitment Limited on 10 December 2004.
The industry at large is only now achieving transaction gave rise to no profit or profits similar to those of the last cyclical loss on disposal.
peak in 2000, Hays, by virtue of its Provisions established at the time 158.0m strategy and execution, is delivering of earlier disposals have been reviewed profits signicantly above that peak.
and this has given rise to an exceptional Operating cash ow The business today is bigger, stronger, write-back of 22.0 million, with a more profitable and cash generative further 2.4 million credit arising on the than it has ever been before.
disposal of a property and the repayment of loan notes previously provided.
Results summary Specialist Recruitment turnover in Return of capital 3.40p the year was 1,640.4 million 2004 The Group has made excellent 1,388.8 million an increase of 18% progress with the share buy-back Dividend per share Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3 which began in November 2004. clients.
During my visits to our ofces Specialist Recruitment By 5 September 2005, 143.0 million and back ofce support functions, turnover m shares had been purchased at a total I continue to be impressed by our teams cost of 183.7 million, an average application, enthusiasm and knowledge.
Our objective is to make our 05 1,640.4 Having carefully reviewed the Groups business uniquely attractive to our prospects, the Board has decided clients, candidates and employees to extend the buy-back to at least and this is achieved by a combination Specialist Recruitment 300 million.
of professional and enthusiastic net fees m recruitment consultants, supported by a Dividend growth first class back ofce infrastructure.
On 04 404.7 As a consequence of our strong profit behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 05 470.6 growth and excellent cash generation, everyone in Hays for their contribution the Board is recommending a final to these outstanding results.
dividend of 2.27p per share, which, Specialist Recruitment Outlook if approved at the Annual General operating profit m Meeting will make a total of 3.40p We are delighted with the performance for the full year.
This represents an of the Group.
We have continued to 04 133.4 increase of 13% on last year.
The invest substantially across all regions in 05 167.1 recommended dividend will be paid order to deliver our strategy for growth.
on 8 November 2005 to shareholders At the same time the business delivered on the register at 7 October 2005. record net fees and operating profit.
The Board is aware of the This is an outstanding achievement.
importance of sustainable dividend In July and August the business growth to shareholders and intends continued to grow across all three to maintain its current policy of regions, with the growth rate in the progressive growth in dividends.
United Kingdom slightly lower than in the second half of the last financial Directors and employees year.
Overall the Group has generated We are delighted to welcome our two net fee growth of 13% against new non-executive Directors, William tougher comparatives.
Our continuing Eccleshare and Paul Stoneham.
William investment, both in the United Kingdom and Paul bring relevant international and overseas, is a strong indicator business experience to your Board.
of our confidence in the future.
In the short time that they have been Directors they have brought new perspectives and great value to Board debates.
Both will be offering themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting.
During the year we appointed Bob Lawson a new Divisional Managing Director Chairman with responsibility for the development 5 September 2005 of our international operations.
This appointment demonstrates our confidence in, and commitment to, the excellent growth potential available in our chosen international markets.
The Board has met 10 times during the year and has begun to broaden its activities by visiting key divisional ofces to receive presentations from line management.
The inaugural visit to the Head Ofce of Hays Germany was also undertaken during the year.
We have recently concluded our second Board evaluation and as a Board have found the process useful.
The key outputs will lead to improvements in Board reporting, strengthening of our succession planning and further renement of our strategic plan.
Our experience of Board evalution is that it does enable key issues to be considered in a different and beneficial manner.
The record financial performance in the year has been achieved by our people, who continue to meet and exceed the increasing demands of our
