Excellent returns from the Groups store openings Complacent we are not.
The success of our two retailing 42 in the year more than offset the tougher trading formats is based on the enthusiasm, skill and sheer conditions experienced in the UK following a highly hard work of our employees: the effectiveness of our successful Christmas.
Overall, the Group had a operational systems: and the service, range and value successful year, with turnover for the statutory for money we offer to our customers.
So when the 53 week period of 1,885.6m and profit before tax and going gets tougher, we see it as an opportunity and in exceptional items of 136.2m.
Basic earnings per share virtually every area home and abroad our market were 23.9p and adjusted earnings per share were share performance has remained strong.
Your Board is recommending the total dividend very clear proposition, we aim to continue to improve be increased by 17.2% to 6.8p per share.
in terms of operational efficiency and customer The progressive dividend policy, combined with experience, and we have the fire-power to grasp a programme of on-market share buybacks, which opportunities, as and where appropriate.
We will commenced in April 2005, is a product of a business continue to open profitable new space, capitalising which continues to be highly cash-generative.
on all the special qualities outlined above.
This ensures that our pursuit of organic investment We have a strong balance sheet, robust financial opportunities mainly new store openings controls and we view the year ahead with confidence.
The Groups Chief Operating Officer, Brian It is a strategy which has continued to deliver McLaughlin, will retire on 31 December 2005, a year excellent returns, and there remains great potential later than originally announced.
No one has contributed for a considerable increase in the size of our portfolio, more to HMV Group than Brian, most recently as acting across both HMV and Waterstones.
Investment in Managing Director of Waterstones, and we are delighted electronic retailing is being stepped up.
This embraces that he will remain on the Groups Board as a Nonboth digital downloading in HMV UK and e-tailing of Executive Director.
A replacement Managing Director physical products via the Internet.
at Waterstones will be appointed in due course.
At the end of 2004 we were pleased to announce With experienced leadership now in place a strategic partnership with Microsoft Corporation for throughout all our businesses, and a proven senior the creation of a new HMV digital downloading service team at Waterstones, the Board does not intend to for the UK.
This is an exciting development with one appoint a new Group COO.
The Groups Board will of the worlds leading technology corporations which gain additional expertise with the richly deserved will enable us to take on a new breed of competitor appointment of Steve Knott, Managing Director in music, and ultimately video, retail distribution.
of HMV UK & Ireland, as an Executive Director with The other major area which we see as having effect from 1 August 2005. considerable potential for HMV is computer games, a huge market which is forecast to show considerable growth over the next few years.
At the moment, HMV UK & Ireland has a relatively small market share, but we are taking steps to compete much more vigorously with Robin Miller Chairman other retailers of these products.
27 June 2005 As I mentioned above, the crucial five-week Christmas trading period was very good for us.
However, in our trading statement at the time we did flag up our caution for the outlook in the UK.
We were right to do so because, as is now widely known, the economic environment and retailing in the UK have become progressively more difficult, although the gloom can be easily overdone.
Chairmans statement Robin Miller Our pursuit of organic investment opportunities mainly new store openings will continue.
04 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 We go out of our way to be different.
Our formats have retail differentiation down to a fine art.
HMV and Waterstones stores operate in highly competitive markets.
Overleaf is an insight into why our stores are so very often consumers leading choice for music and entertainment software and books.
If after reading this you still havent been able to discover what were about, we invite you to visit any of our stores, where were sure to be able to help find what youre looking for and quite possibly something that youre not!
05 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Welikeyour tastes to be seriously challenged.
06 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Extending An unrivalled local choice range In HMV UK & Ireland, of books so extensive is the range An average-sized of music and DVD on Waterstones store offer that a new store merchandises a range of opening in even the around 30,000 individual smallest locations has books, and 200,000 titles the effect of increasing in our very largest store.
the size of the local market With over one million by as much as 50%.
books in print, and around 100,000 new titles published every year, the expert recommendations and advice our booksellers are able to give are key ingredients in our success.
HMV and Waterstones stores reflect a diversity of tastes.
From the most committed of bibliophiles and aficionados of music and movies, to the more infrequent buyers of the chart and bestsellers, our customers know that to visit an HMV or Waterstones store is to be presented with unrivalled choice.
07 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 We dont care how you want it.
History is littered with new formats and technologies that have, for one reason or another, failed to win consumer acceptance.
Others, including the CD and DVD, have exceeded all expectations.
Through innovation, merchandising and the commitment of our employees, our stores have helped to shape the way music, video and books are sold today.
We have a great track record of knowing which new formats to back and, crucially, when and how much to invest.
Ultimately, consumers decide which formats are successful: our job is to sensibly offer these in a way that reflects the authority and trust represented by our brands.
Realising potential Although HMV UK & Ireland was not market leader in VHS, by identifying the opportunity and making the decision to invest in DVD at an early stage of the market HMV rapidly became Britains biggest and most authoritative DVD retailer.
Digital downloading is also at an early stage, though has the potential to become a worthwhile channel to reach consumers, which is reflected by our investment commitment.
08 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 HMV Digital strategic partnership with Microsoft The Jukebox for HMV Digital HMV UKs new digital downloading service, which launches on 5 September 2005 has been developed in partnership with Microsoft Corporation.
Enabling consumers to find, buy, manage and enjoy their music all in one place, our system is compatible with a wide range of portable music players.
Leveraging the HMV stores and brand The UKs most committed and enthusiastic music buyers are frequent visitors to HMV.
Through our network of 200-plus stores our employees are able to provide consumers with all the advice they need to get started with digital downloading.
By promoting the HMV Digital service, distributing our software and merchandising a range of portable players in stores, HMV is well placed to establish itself as a leader in this emerging market.
Promoting leadership Leadership skills are a particular focus of our learning and development initiatives.
HMV UK & Ireland, in conjunction with Ashridge Management College, offers a Management Diploma for store and head office managers.
From the first years intake, in July 2003, nearly 50% of individuals who completed the diploma were promoted to more senior positions.
HMV UK & Ireland also operates a graduate training programme, with two intakes each year, a fast-track scheme for all levels of store employees and an external manager programme, aimed at recruiting high-calibre retail managers from outside HMV.
10 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 HMV and Waterstones store employees are renowned for their product knowledge and passion some might say to the point of obsession!
However, product expertise only partly explains why our employees are so good at what they do.
Overlaid on this are the practical skills and disciplines that make our businesses such formidable retailers.
Through continuing to invest in employee development, we are underpinning our further growth.
Blueprint for best practice A learning and development framework based on the HMV UK experience continues to be communicated throughout all our Better read businesses.
In HMV Japan, An unprecedented level the focus has been on of investment in raising support for the new store capability at Waterstones opening programme and during the year enabled the further development our branch managers of our Regional Managers, to attend three-day who this year participated workshops focused on in a two-week programme, raising commerciality developed and delivered and financial acumen.
by the UK Learning and Learning programmes Development team, for new title buying, to enhance their own stock management and skills and accelerate the customer service are transfer of best practice.
raising the capability of our booksellers, and new management fast track schemes have been introduced to support the pipeline of new Waterstones talent.
11 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Were mad about your money.
Value for money is central to the continuing appeal of our specialist retailing formats.
Both HMV and Waterstones operate in highly competitive product markets, against a variety of different trading strategies.
However, when visiting any of our stores our customers know that they will be consistently presented with enticing value for money offers.
By buying better than many of our high street competitors, by having both the product and retailing expertise to know what and how to merchandise, and by creating with our suppliers the in-store offers consumers love to shop.
12 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Among our successful campaigns this year: Music Christmas Offer of the Week HMV UK & Ireland Welcome to HMV City!
HMV Japan DVD 100 DVDs You Must Own HMV UK & Ireland Buy 3 Get 1 Free HMV Canada Games 2 for 30 b50 HMV UK & Ireland Books Paperbacks of the Year Heroes and Villains Waterstones Value shared Our stores consistently offer a wide range of product campaigns and price promotions to drive sales of the chart and bestsellers and the back catalogue.
By supporting new and emerging artists and authors through regular campaigns and promotions, HMV and Waterstones have an important role to play in their industries.
And by working closely with suppliers to select products from the back catalogue to promote and campaign, our stores continue to take previously released works and successfully convert these into sales.
13 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Weve got it in for you.
Meeting the needs of our customers through reliable in-store availability is critical to the success of our specialist store formats.
The wide ranges available in our shops require skilful management, backed up by highly efficient inventory management systems.
Continuing investment in this vital combination of people and IT has ensured that, even at peak trading periods, customers can depend on HMV and Waterstones.
Capital gains Improvements in stock control, the customer experience and shareholder value go hand in hand.
By upgrading our inventory management systems in Waterstones, multiple copies of slower moving titles have been replaced by a wider, more frequently replenished range.
Combined with the improvement in our stock turn, from 2.6x in the year before the IPO to 4.2x, Waterstones has A helping replicated the negative working capital model hand developed in HMV At HMV and Waterstones UK & Ireland.
we appreciate that not everyone is a regular visitor to our stores.
Our employees are on hand to offer expert guidance and advice on the wide ranges available in our shops.
14 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Practice at our peak The Groups most important trading period is at Christmas, when the increasing trend has been for consumers to compress their gift buying into later time periods.
At peak times our store employees and effective stock systems come into their own, ensuring high standards of customer service and continuing availability.
15 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005
