Chairmans statement 2005 These are the results for the 52 weeks to 24 December 2005.
Pre-exceptional profit before tax has significantly reduced from 54.5 million last year to a loss of 0.6 million.
Net exceptional costs of 110.2 million have been incurred 2004 33.9 million, bringing the total loss for the year to 110.8 million 2004 20.6 million profit.
Turnover was up 2.5% against last year at 1,552 million 2004 1,515 million.
The Board has recommended that no final dividend be paid.
A more competitive market and higher operating costs have put a light brake on growth at Howden Joinery, with pre-exceptional operating profits slightly up on last year.
The fundamental deterioration in profitability has come from our UK Retail division, as it became clear that there were inherent problems within that business.
In October 2005, Matthew Ingle was appointed as the Groups new Chief executive.
Matthew has demonstrated excellent leadership skills and a strong understanding of customer service at Howden Joinery.
The divisions excellent performance over the last five years speaks volumes for his abilities.
I believe he has the qualities to make the radical changes we need at Group level, and that the performance since October 2005 supports this view.
Matthews first move was to refocus on our three main business areas Retail, Trade and Supply and appoint a new management team with Steven Round appointed chief executive of the Retail business and Rob Fenwick as chief executive of the Supply business.
Matthew continues as chief executive of the Trade business.
The senior management team moved quickly to close a number of peripheral operations and reduce the Groups debt, while at the same time carrying out a fundamental review of the businesses.
The new team also focused on establishing financial stabilisation by reducing debt and restructuring the Groups borrowing facilities via a 3.25 year secured facility announced earlier this month.
Since the year-end the Our trade business, Howden Joinery, will operate independently under our new structure.
This means that its growth will not be restricted by other parts of the business.
We know that Howdens is a very cash generative business, so thats what we are freeing it up to do.......................................................................................................................................................................... 2 MFI Annual Report 2005 debt position has further improved with the disposal of our French business and the settlement of the long-standing dispute with HM Revenue & Customs over the sale of some of our insurance products.
Howden Joinery is a strong business and we see a good year ahead.
In 2006 it will build on its successful model and excellent customer relationships, with up to 30 new depots due to be opened.
We are starting to refocus the Retail business to be a national business selling domestic kitchens and bedrooms.
We are trialling a local delivery centre model where the customer can pick up a product or pay for home delivery, making life easier for them and margins better for us.
Our Supply division is focused on becoming much more flexible so it can respond quickly to changing consumer demand and new product development, while delivering products at the right price.
We have announced the proposed closure of two factories as we concentrate on what we do well and outsource other manufacturing to specialist suppliers around the world.
We greatly regret the loss of jobs which these changes may involve, but we believe them to be right for the business.
Speed-to-market, cost and quality will all be enhanced by better sourcing and distribution.
2005 Board changes Mark Robson joined the Board in April 2005 as Chief financial officer.
Mark spent the previous six years as Group finance director at Delta plc and was heavily involved in the restructuring of that group.
This experience is enormously valuable to us.
Tony fide Nunzio was appointed non-executive Deputy chairman in February 2005, having served as a non-executive director since September 2000.
Paul Cheng, a Hong Kong-based business leader, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in August 2005.
There is no better place to trial our products than in real situations.
That can be very expensive to set up.
We have taken another route.
Buy a house in need of renovation.
Refurbish it using our products.
Sell the house at a profit.
The Board would like to thank John for his hard work and dedication to MFI over this time.
Under Johns leadership the Group developed new routes to market and supported the development and growth of Howden Joinery.
Mark Horgan resigned on 19 May 2005 to become Chief executive officer of The Number 118118.
Shaun OCallaghan resigned from the Board on 20 July 2005 to pursue other interests and Bob Wilson has decided to retire from his position of executive director with effect from April 2006.
We are grateful to them all for their contributions over the years.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Board for their support and confidence, and Id like to thank my colleagues both in the UK and in France for the exceptional commitment they have put into the business in 2005 and particularly during the difficult stabilisation phase.
Outlook Trading conditions in 2006 are unpredictable.
The robustness of Howden Joinery does help to give us stability, as management makes the changes necessary in retail and the supply chain.
In contrast to Howdens excellent relationships with small builders, we have struggled to connect with the changing expectations, tastes and needs of retail customers.
As the restructuring process progresses, I believe a profitable retail business will emerge that is much more in tune with the market.
There is a great deal to be done, but I am confident we can, and will, reinvigorate MFI.
Ian Peacock How can we make our retail business profitable Chairman again?
250,000 customers visiting our stores 28 February 2006 every week is evidence that the business has great potential.
At the moment we only talk to 40% of those visitors.
