Chairmans Statement We operate with the focus and speed of a small company allied to the efficiencies and strengths of a large group.
I am pleased to present my first report as Chairman of Corporate Strategy Informa plc against a backdrop of tremendous change and Our strategy is to serve the information needs of our exciting developments.
2005 was a notable year for Informa customers through the provision of quality products for many reasons, in particular the addition in July of IIR to and services using whichever media format they require.
It has been most gratifying to see the way in We focus on specialist groups and sectors, seeking to become which the various businesses in the Group have responded their information provider of choice and a trusted partner.
in a collegiate manner to the challenges, changes and As a consequence of our specialist market positions, the 2004 opportunities that have presented themselves.
merger with Taylor & Francis, the July 2005 acquisition of IIR and the continued emphasis on profitable growth, we are Much work remains to be done but with the support of able to operate with the focus and speed of a small company the many dedicated colleagues around the Group we are allied to the efficiencies and strengths of a large group.
building an even more successful and integrated business, with common goals and shared values.
Coupled to our organic growth is a successful acquisition policy which has also generated opportunities both inside Integration and outside of existing markets.
IIR has, for example, given The efforts and dedication of our now 7,400 employees, the Group a small but important presence in exhibition have once again helped to produce excellent results and businesses as well as an industry-leading position in the continue to be the major contributor to the Groups ongoing fast-growing Performance Improvement field.
Enthusiasm for our products, services and markets of acquisitions the Group has operations in a number of truly underpins the Groups momentum.
During the past adjacent professions and industries that have similar 12 months great progress has been made in the integration requirements for high quality information.
Acquisitions and consolidation of the various offices and teams across have also helped the Group to continue to expand its position the Group as well as in upgrading and standardising our in the important US market as well as developing markets key strategic systems.
in China, India and the former Soviet Union.
Some of the key developments include a new warehouse Looking forward the Group will continue to implement this facility in Kentucky handling all the Groups book distribution successful strategy of developing its businesses through a in North America, a common CODA accounting platform combination of organic development and the identification which is currently being rolled out to our IIR operations, and integration of suitable earnings-enhancing acquisitions.
the successful transfer of global journal subscription 2006 has started well and we look forward to the rest of the processing to existing SAP systems and new book production year with confidence.
systems implemented in the UK and the US.
Many other initiatives are underway across the Group to bring the Richard Hooper Informa family closer together and we look forward to a Chairman successful roll out during 2006 of our new combined SAP- 13 March 2006 based Customer Relationship Management and Sales Order Processing system, known as Fusion.
4 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
