2 International Power Annual Report 2005 Chairmans statement We have delivered strong growth in both earnings per share and dividend whilst continuing our commitment to pursue growth opportunities that will create additional shareholder value in the future.
In my last statement to you I set out the Companys the tightly run operating regimes that exist at all of our power objectives for 2005 these were to focus on the integration plants.
I would like to thank both the staff who were part of and consolidation of our 2004 acquisitions, namely the Edison the Company before the recent important strategic moves Mission Energy international asset portfolio and the Turbogs as well as those who have now joined the Company and plant in Portugal, whilst ensuring that we delivered on our integrated well into the team.
commitments to shareholders on earnings and dividends.
During 2005 we continued to grow the business.
Transactions These objectives were set against the background of our included the acquisition of the 1,200 MW Saltend CCGT in original earnings per share guidance of 11.0p 12.5p for the UK in partnership with Mitsui, the forming of a retail 2005.
In the event I am pleased to report that at the end business in partnership with EnergyAustralia in Victoria and of the year the Group reported an EPS excluding exceptional South Australia and, at the beginning of this year, we were items of 13.5p.
This is a 57% increase on the 2004 result and part of a consortium which has agreed to acquire the Hidd reflects improvements in the US and UK merchant markets CCGT desalination plant in Bahrain.
All of these acquisitions as well as the successful integration of the assets we acquired.
meet our strategic and financial criteria and will create The growth in free cash flow from 104 million in 2004 to additional shareholder value in the years ahead.
285 million in 2005, a 174% increase, demonstrates that There have been changes to the Board of Directors.
Jack Taylor these earnings are backed by strong cash flow.
The share will be retiring as a Non-Executive Director of the Company at price has consequently recovered well throughout the year.
the 2006 AGM and I would like to thank Jack for the six years In 2005 we made our first dividend payment and indicated of excellent service he has given to the Board and the Company.
that for the payment in 2006 we expected to maintain a On 1 June 2005, Bruce Levy joined the Board as an Executive dividend pay-out ratio at the 30% level.
However, recognising Director with responsibility for the North America region.
the progress we made last year, both in terms of earnings Bruce joined the Group in December 2004 having worked and free cash flow, the Board has decided to recommend a previously at the US power company, GPU.
The Board is final dividend of 4.5p per share in respect of the year ended pleased with the progress being made in the North American 31 December 2005.
This is an 80% increase on the payment business and held a Board meeting at ANPs headquarters in respect of 2004 and represents a pay-out ratio of 33%.
It remains the Boards intention to move progressively towards a pay-out ratio of 40%.
Payment of this dividend is due to be 2005 is the first year we have produced our accounts in made towards the end of June following the 2006 Annual accordance with the newly adopted International Financial General Meeting AGM, which will be held on 17 May 2006.
The move from UK GAAP to IFRS has created an extra level of complexity in our reporting but, The growth in earnings and dividends is a testament to the quality of the contribution made by the Groups employees excluding the impact of IAS 39, has not made a material during the year from the careful selection of acquisition difference to the Groups reported performance when compared opportunities and thorough due diligence programmes to to the way it would have been presented under UK GAAP.
Chairmans statement 3 In relation to corporate governance issues, we continue Earnings per share excluding the work to ensure the group is able to comply with s404 Sarbanes Oxley Act for 2006.
We reviewed our US listing exceptional items up 57% during 2005 and decided to maintain it although we will keep to 13.5p it under scrutiny to respond to market developments.
With regard to the Combined Code we have taken steps to be more compliant, and have used an external facilitator for the first Dividend payment of 4.5p per time to carry out our annual Board performance evaluation.
share, an 80% increase on 2004 There is currently a significant amount of attention paid by boards, employees and shareholders to the state of UK Strong performance from corporate pension funds.
Fortunately, this is not a major issue for International Power due to the relatively small acquisitions pension deficit.
We expect 2006 to be a year of further growth.
This is driven 2006 expected to be a year principally by continued recovery in two of our key merchant of further growth markets, namely the UK and the US, and our new-build programme in the Middle East progressively reaching commercial operation.
We will continue with our disciplined approach to pursuing value enhancing growth opportunities in our core regions, alongside our commitment to increase our dividend pay-out over the medium-term.
