Chairmans statement Although much remains to be done, the Board is confident that we have the clear plans in place to achieve a sustainable improvement in performance.
I am pleased to report that Invensys has made Operating cash flow for the Group before considerable progress during the past year.
Building restructuring and payment of legacy liabilities upon the financial stability created by the refinancing was an inflow of 231 million.
Free cash flow before in March 2004, we have focussed upon dealing with the payment of legacy liabilities was an inflow of the key issues needed to improve the operational 38 million compared with an outflow of 40 million performance of each of our businesses, improving in the prior year.
our free cash flow generation and managing prudently our legacy liabilities.
Although much Overall, net debt reduced by 194 million to remains to be done, the Board is confident that we 792 million at 31 March 2005 with a positive free have the clear plans in place to achieve a sustainable cash flow and the receipt of sale proceeds from improvement in performance.
business disposals, partially offset by legacy liability payments of 181 million.
Gross debt fell by 121 Summary of results million during the year.
Our overall performance last year was in line with expectations.
Good operational progress has been The Board is recommending that no dividend be paid made across the Group.
Sales for the retained businesses were 2,524 million The Board 2004: 2,720 million, down 3% at constant exchange Rick Haythornthwaite will be stepping down as Chief rates CER.
Operating profit was 169 million 2004: Executive on 22 July 2005.
He has signalled for some 193 million, including a negative currency translation while that he would hand over the reins at Invensys adjustment of 14 million, resulting in an operating when the Group had turned the corner.
successful completion of the refinancing last year and the progress we have made since then with our Overall, Group sales for the year were 2,923 million, business recovery programmes, that time has arrived.
down 25% compared with last year.
Group operating On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Rick for profit was 175 million, compared with 217 million his leadership of the Group through difficult and last year.
demanding times and we wish him well with the next stage of his career.
Sales and operating profit were adversely impacted both by disposals of businesses and currency He will be succeeded as Chief Executive by Ulf translation adjustments stemming from weakness in Henriksson, who joined the Group in May last year as the US dollar and the euro.
At CER, operating profit Chief Operating Officer having previously held senior for continuing operations improved on prior year by roles at Eaton Corporation, Honeywell Allied Signal 8 million, with strong performances at Process and Volvo.
During the past year, Ulf has demonstrated Systems and Businesses for sale together with a to the Board that he has the skills, the commitment reduction in corporate costs.
This was partially offset and the tremendous enthusiasm needed to lead by weaker results at Controls and APV.
We all look forward to working with him and his executive team on the next stage of the Groups development.
Simon Robertson resigned from the Board on 19 January 2005 following his appointment as Chairman of Rolls Royce plc.
We are extremely grateful to Simon whose financial and business experience has underpinned his valuable advice and contribution to the Invensys Board since 1999.
02 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 Bay Green joined the Board as a non-executive You may have noticed that we chose to place director on 1 January 2005.
He is a Vice Chairman an advertisement in the national press instead of the of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein and also serves printed Interim report of previous years.
This is due as a non-executive director of RPC Group plc and not only to our more frequent quarterly reporting Axis-Shield plc.
He has become a member of the cycle but also to our commitment to keep corporate Groups Audit and Nominating Committees and will costs low.
also become the Senior Independent Director at the close of the Annual General Meeting on 21 July 2005.
Outlook The outlook for the major economies in which we Corporate social responsibility operate is unclear.
Assuming only modest growth in Invensys is strongly committed to its corporate our markets, the considerable work being undertaken responsibilities in relation to the communities within within our businesses to meet operational challenges which it operates and to the environmental should ensure that we make overall progress in the consequences of its activities.
We believe our current year.
prospects of successfully achieving our business goals and a fair return to our investors are increased by fulfilment of our corporate responsibilities at large.
In the last year, we have given particular priority to improving the health and safety of our employees and, in the current year, we will be focussing upon the Group-wide implementation of a revised Code of Martin Jay Conduct and Ethics.
A full explanation of the actions Chairman we are taking can be found on page 20.
Employees, customers and investors I thank all our employees for their hard work and steadfastness over the past year and hope that they feel proud, as I do, that we are now beginning to see the fruits of our labour.
This again has been a demanding year but, with the support of not only our employees but also our customers, suppliers and business partners, I feel that we have turned the corner and, with continued effort, can forge a path to profitable growth.
I would also like to thank you, our investors, for your continued support over the year and look forward to your continuing commitment to Invensys over the next 12 months.
