Chairmans statement Adjusted pre-tax profit in 2005 was up 7 per cent to 124.1 million 2004: 115.6 million, with pre-tax profit for the year being 25.4 million 2004: 91.2 million.
During 2005, we saw strong performance in our Engineering and Technical Services activities and in our Oil and Gas business.
Results overall were depressed by our UK construction activities.
We have taken action in the UK and as a result have incurred costs to exit several unattractive activities.
Strong performance in our other activities enabled us to report good progress and proposed dividends for the year are increased by 4.5 per cent to 11.5 pence per share 2004: 11.0 pence.
The outlook for overall progress in 2006 remains in line with our earlier expectations.
Jock Green-Armytage These results reflect, and support, Chairman our strategy of focusing on attractive energy and process markets, while continuing to build an increasingly attractive portfolio of equity investments.
Shaping a more focused group After exceptional items and intangible amortisation For the AMEC group as currently structured 2 AMEC plc annual report 2005 We must now ensure that we Energy markets hold Maturing portfolio exploit these opportunities to real promise of investments the full.
On pages four and five International energy markets hold In recent years, we have built an of this report, we describe the real promise as we look ahead.
attractive portfolio of investments strategic changes announced As I write, AMEC is contributing in PPP and property developments in 2005 to enable us to do so.
to the UK Governments important and a strong position in wind energy, review of energy policy which all of which are expected to become By restructuring the group, looks at the serious question of increasingly valuable over the we will overcome the investment investment in the energy assets next few years.
challenges we have recently of the future.
Worldwide, faced as a large business with During 2005, we took important governments anticipate rapidly competing priorities.
steps to improve our performance rising energy demand, which will drive investment in new energy in UK construction, not just We hope to complete the assets and benefit companies exiting markets but restructuring restructuring by the end of 2006. like AMEC that design, deliver the business, putting in a new While Sir Peter Mason, our chief and support these assets.
management team and addressing executive, is due to retire in the cost base.
As a result of these September, he is committed In this context, the energy actions, we can look forward to assisting in this strategy and acquisitions we completed during to a better year in 2006. is working with the board to 2005 are particularly significant.
ensure a smooth transition We acquired the oil and gas services to his successor.
Scale of opportunity company Paragon, gaining a The scale of opportunity open position in the important Houston to AMEC is substantial.
We strengthened our markets are growing apace, major 15 March 2006 position in the UK, Canadian and investments in UK infrastructure international nuclear markets are anticipated over the next with the acquisition of NNC, few years and we expect further the UKs leading private sector profits from our longer term nuclear services business.
Both businesses are performing well.
