The year ended 30 April 2005 has seen a number of landmark decisions in favour of LORENZO over our international competitors, which bodes well for the future as iSOFT looks to extend its geographic reach.
Dear Shareholder, The impressive progress of LORENZO owes much In the year ended 30 April 2005, iSOFT made to our extensive off-shore Product Development 02 considerable progress towards its objective of Centre in Chennai, India.
Access to the large pool being the global leader in the provision of of IT talent in that location has been essential in innovative software solutions for healthcare developing the highly organised and productive provider organisations.
Our results for the period software development organisation that iSOFT are testimony to this progress with good growth now possesses.
At 30 April 2005 our workforce in in turnover and profit, and further significant Chennai numbered 956 software specialists.
strengthening of our working capital position.
Following on from our success in Chennai, I am Leadership in our market depends on the relevance also pleased to announce the opening of our new of our software solutions and their acceptance by Solution Centre in Hyderabad, India.
This centre our existing customers and adoption by new ones.
has been established to work on the packaging In these regards we can demonstrate substantial and configuration of LORENZO for deployment in advancement as our LORENZO application set diverse international healthcare settings.
progressively replaces our traditional software We expect to host our growing number of third portfolio in our customer base, and continues its party implementation partners at this location high success rate in new procurements in our to work collaboratively on future new LORENZO chosen markets.
The year ended 30 April 2005 based solutions.
has seen a number of landmark decisions in favour In the UK, at our new Manchester Group of LORENZO over our international competitors, headquarters, we have now completed a which bodes well for the future as iSOFT looks to dedicated demonstration centre for LORENZO.
This NUCLEUS facility will be aimed at existing During the year we have made extensive and prospective customers, to allow them to see enhancements to LORENZO to allow flexible the full functionality of LORENZO including its deployments in different healthcare settings.
interoperability with third party applications, At the functional level, the vast majority of diagnostic medical equipment and new and LORENZO enhancements are aimed at giving emerging device technologies.
This facility will also clinicians direct benefits from working with the host investor days that will allow our shareholders application, particularly in patient-facing settings.
to appreciate more closely the value of iSOFTs We are pleased with the reactions received from work in advancing the quality of healthcare in its clinicians to the care management innovations selected markets.
Their feedback Organisationally, the year ended 30 April 2005 heavily influences our research and development has been one of restructuring and subsequent direction and priorities.
consolidation following the final regulatory clearance of the merger with Torex in April 2004.
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN 2005 The successful integration of that business has Finally, I am able to confirm my own intention to provided a strong middle management team to stand down as Non-executive Chairman and from 03 support our current workloads and the next phase the Board on the appointment of a successor of development for the iSOFT business.
during the course of the current financial year.
I am privileged to have been involved in the iSOFT However, we continue to take important steps to success story, firstly as Chief Executive and more strengthen further our senior management team.
The next At Board level, we have already announced Chairman will lead iSOFT into a period of Gavin James as our new Group Finance Director.
international growth as befits our standing as a I am delighted that Gavin has agreed to join the world class software application vendor.
The iSOFT executive team from his role as Finance Board has commenced a process to recruit a new Director of Morse plc.
We are already benefiting Chairman with the best possible experience in line significantly from his considerable, relevant public with our strategic direction.
We also announced during the year, promotion to the Board for Ravi Kumar In conclusion, I congratulate the management and as Chief Technology Officer.
This recognises not all the employees of iSOFT for another year of only the outstanding contribution made by Ravi outstanding performance.
The strong demand for to the development of our application offering, our software solutions has meant a lot of hard but also acknowledges the importance of work for our staff.
Their commitment, diligence product and technology decisions in our business and invention remain key factors in our success.
Further to the executive appointments, I am also able to announce changes to the non-executive members of the iSOFT Group Board.
I am pleased to confirm the appointment to the Board of Ken Patrick Cryne Lever as a non-executive director.
Ken is currently Non-executive Chairman Finance Director of Tomkins plc.
His experience of international operations and his independent financial perspectives will be of great value to iSOFT.
Sir Digby Jones, who has been a non-executive director since our listing on the London Stock Exchange in July 2000, will not seek re-election at iSOFT Groups forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July 2005.
The Board and management of iSOFT are grateful to Sir Digby for his guidance and support, and are pleased that he will continue to be available as an advisor to the Group.
I want to be working with patients.
Accurate information is vital to medicines management, now I can use it to improve the quality of care I deliver.
