16 ITV plc 2005 annual report In ITVs second year as a single Company Building new businesses Chairmans statement we have continued to build on last years and revenue streams progress, further improving our structure We have made real progress in: and our profitability.
expanding the audience for our growing 2005 results television channels: After a good first half our operating profit building our production business before amortisation and exceptional items and exploiting our content across continued to grow in the second half of the all platforms and media: and year, and for the full year is up by 42% on last year to 460 million before exceptionals developing new businesses and revenue and amortisation.
Earnings per share streams in pay and consumer areas.
before amortisation and exceptional items Every part of the Group has contributed increased by 25% to 8.0 pence up 54% to to this success.
5.4 pence after amortisation and exceptional items.
In broadcasting we have seen tremendous success for our new channels and growing Your Board is proposing a final dividend of sponsorship and interactive revenues.
1.8 pence per share payable on 3 July 2006 to shareholders on the register on In production we have continued to grow 21 April 2006.
The ex-dividend date will be our UK sales to other broadcasters and we 19 April 2006.
This will increase the full year are expanding our profitable US and dividend by 30% to 3.12 pence compared Australian production businesses with to 2004, and will help achieve our stated commissions for network broadcasters.
aim of rebalancing the levels of interim and Our new consumer team has launched final dividend over the medium term such a number of successful ventures in that the interim will ultimately represent 2005, which will enable us to grow our approximately one-third of the total non-advertising revenues.
acquired SDN and Friends Reunited.
Cash return to shareholders These acquisitions support our strategy: In 2005 we reviewed the possibility of with SDN providing long term digital returning cash to our shareholders and terrestrial transmission capacity and concluded that before doing so we should: already growing in value, and Friends Reunited increasing customers for its complete the process of renewing the content based services and building financial terms of our ITV1 licences: and communities through cross promotion address the deficit funding of our dened from television.
Organic growth is increasing benefit pension schemes.
from our interactive revenues, with ITV Play making a very promising start.
We have now completed those processes and have the capacity to return 300 million to shareholders.
We propose to do this over the coming few months by way of market purchase of ordinary shares.
We are making real progress in: expanding the audience for our growing channels: building our production business and exploiting content: and developing new businesses and revenue streams.
17 Regulation Corporate governance and CR We will not separately compensate any We have made some significant progress in We are publishing a corporate responsibility executives for this change, but will establish bringing regulation up to date: but we still report for 2005 which sets out the detail of alternate arrangements designed to leave have a long way to go before we are as free our activities across the Group.
ITV was the both individuals and the Group in a broadly of regulation as our main competitors.
highest contributor to charitable causes in similar position.
both the 2005 Guardian Giving List and Our licence payments to the government Further details relating to the Groups Business in the Community Percent Club, were reviewed in 2005 by our regulator, pension schemes are given later in ranking contributions to charitable causes Ofcom, and as a result were reduced from these accounts.
as a percentage of profits of FTSE 100 a pro forma gure of 207 million in companies.
A large part of ITVs giving People 2004 to 75 million in 2005.
Over the is supplied as airtime across our family Henry Staunton will be stepping down from period to digital switchover they will of channels.
the Board on 31 March 2006 after 13 years continue to reduce towards 4 million as Finance Director, first of Granada and in constant prices.
Pension schemes then of ITV.
The Board would like to thank We are in a period of unprecedented Our Public Service Broadcasting PSB Henry for his contribution to the Company pressures on companies dened benefit obligations still cost nearly 250 million and for his expertise in the mergers and DB pension schemes.
a year including programme costs and acquisitions that have formed it.
revenue foregone during lower rating Over recent years the factors to which John Cresswell, our Chief Operating officer PSB programmes.
Whilst we have recently scheme deficits have been exposed have since 2005, joined the Board in January and received some dispensation to reduce our included increasing life expectancy of is now our Finance Director.
John has commitments to, for instance, the hours members and falling world equity markets.
18 years of experience in operational and of religious and regional programming, The most material factor now is the level financial roles in television companies which we still have to bear costs which are both of UK long term real interest rates where will be of great assistance to us as we deal disproportionate to the ratings achieved a small reduction can have a large impact with the many changes facing our industry.
from such material and almost unique by increasing the net present value of a to ITV as a commercial broadcaster.
I am pleased to welcome Mike Clasper, essential that we are able to reduce these who joined the Board in January, as a Our work on the DB pension schemes has PSB costs further over the medium term.
Mike has experience continued during 2005: in running service businesses, as well as in Contract Rights Renewal CRR is a a Scheme mergers advertising and marketing, that will be further burden that has had the unintended We have merged six DB schemes in the valuable to us.
David Chance stepped down consequence of changing the way that Group into a single scheme with savings from the Board in February 2006.
As his our advertising market works.
Our ITV1 in cost and improved focus.
involvement in other television ventures advertisers now contract to deliver to us has developed over recent months, he the share of broadcast expenditure b deficit funding and IAS 19 valuations decided that it was appropriate for him to calculated under CRR and we therefore We have completed the 325 million of resign from the Board.
We wish David well have fewer opportunities to take advantage deficit funding that we announced in with his future ventures.
of strengths in our schedule such as the September 2005, with the last tranche Football World Cup during 2006.
We will of 207 million paid early in 2006.
Our IAS Once again I would like to extend the continue to lobby for CRR, which has 19 aggregate deficit has reduced during Boards thanks to our management and become a disproportionate remedy, to 2005 from 672 million to 532 million employees whose continued commitment be relaxed as the share of the market that and the last 207 million reduces that and drive make ITV the nations favourite ITV1 attracts is reduced by the growing to 325 million.
c Tax simplication We have considered how we should deal with aspects of the tax simplication regime coming into effect on 6 April 2006.
Sir Peter Burt Chairman Pension fund good progress on deficit reduction m The Company will commence 672 a programme of returning 300m 22 532 207 cash to shareholders over the 118 coming months by way of market 325 purchase of ordinary shares.
300 228 200 100 0 31.12.04 Asset 118m 31.12.05 207m Pro forma Pro forma liability deficit deficit deficit deficit movement funding funding pre tax post tax Present value of liabilities 2,604m, bid value of assets 2,072m 700 600 500 400
