Chairmans statement Philip Hampton At the half-year we cut the interim dividend to 2.15 pence per share, a fall of 50 per cent.
The final proposed dividend of 5.65 pence takes the total for the year to 7.8 pence as we outlined in October 2004.
The dividend cover is still quite low at around 1.2 times and our objective, in the medium term, is to restore it to at least 1.5 times.
The changes we have made have led to a time of great upheaval for all our colleagues.
Everyone who works in Sainsburys has been stretched and tested.
I am extremely proud of how they have performed and would like to offer my thanks to them.
What about all the changes on the Board?
The Board had to be reformed, bearing in mind the need to re-build Sainsburys reputation for good corporate governance.
Justin King was working What attracted you to Sainsburys?
to strengthen the operational management but to When I took up the Sainsburys chairmanship the outside world, the most visible changes were in July last year, I firmly believed that, in spite of those in the boardroom.
its high profile problems, this was a business that was worth fighting for.
Sainsburys is an iconic My arrival came as Sir Peter Davis left Sainsburys name in British retailing.
It has a strong brand after four years.
Sara Weller and Stuart Mitchell and all of the things that made it great, a passion both left the company in the early part of the year.
for food, good value, a history of innovation and In September, two Non-Executive Directors, Lord a strong ethical approach to business, meant it Levene of Portsoken and Keith ButlerWheelhouse, was a fundamentally attractive challenge.
Each made important contributions to a year on, I am more convinced than ever that Sainsburys in difficult conditions and I would like it is capable of being restored.
to thank them for their service.
They were replaced as NonExecutive Directors by Bob Stack, Group What was your number one priority?
Human Resources Director of Cadbury Schweppes It was overseeing the stabilisation of Sainsburys plc, and Gary Hughes, Finance Director of media to enable us to operate more effectively in what group Emap plc.
Bob and Gary have brought continues to be a very competitive market.
Initially, experience and skills from two successful this meant yet more change, from the top of the consumer-facing businesses, which complement organisation to the bottom.
Tough decisions had those of the existing team.
to be made, not least the reorganisation of our In October, Roger Matthews, our Finance Director, head office, with further job losses, and the cutting announced his plans to retire from the Board.
We recognised that there had I would like to express my gratitude to Roger, been a long-term decline in Sainsburys competitive who has made a very significant contribution position.
Halting and reversing that decline could to Sainsburys over six years.
not be made without putting pressure on profits.
4 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 He will be succeeded by Darren Shapland who to the interests of our shareholders and designed joins us in August from Carpetright plc and whose to ensure there will be absolutely no payments strong operational approach will suit Sainsburys for failure.
What sets this scheme apart is its depth, well as we continue our recovery.
reaching from Justin down through more than 1,000 colleagues and including all our supermarket Sainsburys has a united, professional Board store managers.
Everyone will be judged by the which is working in the interests of all our same criteria, which are extremely stretching.
The Board is determined to help The maximum level of payout will only be achieved make Sainsburys successful with an ethical if the management team delivers a level of growth approach to business and a commitment, in its not seen within this group for over a decade.
widest form, to corporate responsibility.
What are the challenges for the year ahead?
How have you worked with Justin?
We have seen the first encouraging signs that our I see my role as both challenging and supporting sales-led recovery plan is working, with a return the management team.
This year that work has in Quarter Four to underlying sales growth, albeit been focussed on developing our new business at levels less than the industry average.
First Justin led a review of what needed to are early days.
So we will keep testing what we be done to revive our longterm prospects: then are doing to make sure we are on the right path.
he started to implement the changes he had This is a highly competitive business and retail identified as necessary.
The Board had to test turnarounds are rarely achieved in a smooth the review as it progressed and we were all or straightforward manner.
Our plan is designed impressed with the thoroughness of the process.
to improve medium and long-term performance I believe that the plans presented to shareholders to restore our strong position in the market.
in October 2004 are the right plans to return My conversations with stakeholders lead me to Sainsburys to long-term sustainable profitability.
believe that they understand and support what It is a simple yet compelling vision which will we are doing.
I would like to thank them all, deliver a sales-led recovery: fix the basics, continue shareholders, customers, colleagues and suppliers, to focus on quality, invest in prices to address for their continued support.
the competitive gap and focus relentlessly on customers.
At the same time, we are working to reduce costs and improve cash flow.
This is a three-year plan with the drive to achieve an extra 2.5 billion of sales by the end of the 2007 08 financial year and we expect tangible progress year by year.
Philip Hampton Chairman Why have you introduced a new management incentive scheme?
When I joined Sainsburys, the management team, led by Justin, had limited or no financial incentives.
We decided we needed a new arrangement, firmly tied to what the management has promised to deliver sales and profit growth.
It is aligned J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 5
