CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW Sales for the year increased by 22.7 million to 809.9 million, a rise of 3%.
Operating margins before exceptional items were 8.7%, compared with 9.9% last year, mainly as a result of the anticipated higher labour, utilities and repair costs.
Operating profit before exceptional items decreased by 9% to 70.4 million, and profit before tax before exceptional items reduced by 15% to 46.1 million.
Profit before tax after exceptional items was 38.7 million 2004: 46.3 million.
Earnings per share before exceptional items decreased by 7% to 16.4p, with earnings per share after exceptional items being 13.1p 2004: 14.6p.
Cash outflow, in respect of capital investment, was 38.7 million, We opened 13 pubs during the year, compared with 28 in the and net gearing at the year end was 129% 2004: 117%.
The total number of pubs now operated by the increase in gearing was due to a reduction in the number of shares company is 655.
Average sales per pub increased by 1% in the year in issue as a result of share purchases by the company.
Net interest under review, with like-for-like sales declining by 0.6%, offset by was covered 2.9 times 2004: 3.3 times by operating profit before higher sales from newly opened pubs.
Free cash flow, after payments of tax, interest and capital investment of 14.2 million in existing pubs, decreased DIVIDENDS by 6% to 68.8 million, resulting in free cash flow per share of The board proposes, subject to shareholders consent, to pay a 37.1p, more than double earnings per share.
final dividend of 2.82p per share on 25 November 2005 to those shareholders on the register on 28 October 2005, bringing the total dividend for the year to 4.28p per share, a 10% increase on the previous year.
Average sales per pub FINANCE increased by 1% in the year The company had 53.1 million 2004: 74.7 million of unutilised banking facilities and cash balances as at the balance sheet date, under review with total facilities of 387 million 2004: 412 million.
The years capital expenditure on new pub developments was more than covered by free cash flow.
We anticipate that, in the current financial year, the company will generate a cash surplus, after The company recorded exceptional losses in the year of 7.4 million capital expenditure and dividends, which will be available for before taxation 2004: 7.8 million.
This amount included the debt reduction, share buybacks or a combination of both.
anticipated loss on the sale of 8 pubs, together with provisions against several other properties.
It also includes 3.0 million of RETURN OF CAPITAL exceptional start-up costs, under our new distribution arrangements, During the year, 16,455,000 shares representing approximately 9% and 0.9 million of restructuring costs.
of the issued share capital were purchased by the company for cancellation, at a cost of 43.3 million, representing an average cost per share of 262p.
There was a cash outflow in the year, in respect of shares purchased, of 45.7 million.
2 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW CONTRIBUTION TO THE UK ECONOMY now, on weekdays, and approximately 12 hours later, on Friday and Pubs often receive criticism for antisocial behaviour, resulting from Saturday evenings.
These hours are similar to those operated in excessive drinking.
However, it should be borne in mind that the Northern Ireland and Scotland, where the company trades percentage of alcoholic drinks consumed in pubs has declined successfully and where there does not appear to be significantly dramatically in the last 25 years, from approximately 83% of total greater problems of social disorder than in England and Wales.
The process involves considerable initial and continuing expense, In assessing the effect of companies like Wetherspoon on the and we strongly argued in favour of the retention of magistrates, economy, it is important to note that we pay approximately but the administration so far of licensing by local authorities has 311 million in annual taxes of one kind or another.
In addition, not caused undue problems.
almost all of our remaining turnover involves payments to our 18,000 staff and independent British and Irish companies, many of THE TRADING ENVIRONMENT which are small businesses.
The great majority of our customers is As indicated in our recent annual announcements, pubs in general extremely well behaved, and the company makes a major have experienced a considerable increase in competition from contribution towards the economy.
supermarkets, the off-trade generally and from duty-free imports from the continent.
This has been combined with a reduction in the number of people visiting many town and city centres, as a result of unfavourable media coverage of problems associated with excessive We anticipate that, in the drinking in some areas.
current financial year, the Wetherspoon has attempted to address some of these issues.
We continue the strong promotion of food, soft drinks and coffee.
company will generate a cash We have also, alone among our competitors, banned 2-for-1 drink surplus, after capital offers and the discounting of double measures of spirits.
In the case of spirits, this has resulted in the percentage of double measures expenditure and dividends, reducing from 90% to 50% in the course of the last two years.
This may have had some impact on turnover and profitability, which will be available for debt but indicates our willingness to adopt sensible policies and our co-operation with the authorities in this area.
reduction, share buybacks or a combination of both NON-SMOKING We have continued opening non-smoking pubs and have now opened 7 new pubs which do not permit smoking and have converted 29 existing pubs to this format.
We plan to bring the total LICENSING number of non-smoking pubs to approximately 50 by this Christmas.
In April 2004, the company was successful in renewing the licences This will then allow us to review the performance of these nonof all of our existing pubs, without any objections from either local smoking conversions in the early part of 2006. residents or the police, and also successfully lodged licensing applications for all of our pubs and managers under the new The initial impact of introducing non-smoking in existing pubs has legislation.
Most pubs have not yet had their applications granted, resulted in turnover declining by approximately 7% and profit margins but the indications are that permission will be granted and that pubs declining, as there is a significant swing from bar sales to lowerwill, therefore, be able to open approximately one hour later than margin food sales and a consequential increase in labour costs.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW A ban on smoking in pubs, as most commentators agree, is and preparations for the transition are well advanced.
A separate inevitable and we feel that it is important to learn, as early as announcement detailing the impact of IFRS on the opening balance possible, about the nature of the impact and the types of marketing sheet and profits is anticipated in November 2005. and other policies which can be adopted to minimise the economic impact on our business.
The likely areas of impact include the treatment of lease incentives, property leases, deferred tax on rolled-over property gains and Some critics have stated that it would be better to wait until interest-rate hedging.
smoking is banned, before banning it in our own pubs.
However, we feel that it is better to take the initiative, rather than adopting CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK a non-smoking policy at the same time as everyone else, without Like-for-like sales in August declined by 1.7%.
The company, as significant previous experience of its impact.
indicated in our interim results statement, has made considerable efforts to reduce costs, both at head office and in the pubs.
We are also keeping a tight grip on capital investments, pending clarity on the impact of a smoking ban initially in Scotland and then in the The great majority of our rest of the UK.
customers is extremely well The company continues to strive to widen the range and improve the quality of products offered to customers.
For example, in the course behaved, and the company of the next few months, we are introducing Italys number-one makes a major contribution coffee, Lavazza, and a range of new bottled beers, draught ales and lagers, as well as new products in most other categories.
In addition, towards the economy the company has introduced several award-winning cider and perry products over the last few months and has seen a significant increase in sales of other products, such as Pimms.
Food remains a significant part of our business, and we continue to experiment with BOARD CHANGES regional and local produce, together with trialling enhanced menu Tony Lowrie resigned as a non-executive director of the company on availability, particularly in our non-smoking pubs.
23 March 2005, and Brian Jervis has intimated that he will not seek re-election at this years annual general meeting.
I would like to As a result of our strong cash flow, our dedicated and experienced thank both Tony and Brian for their significant contribution to the management team and the loyalty of our customers, we remain company over the years.
Liz McMeikan was appointed as nonconfident for the future.
executive director on 1 April 2005, and it is our intention to appoint a further non-executive director, following Brians intended retirement.
PEOPLE Tim Martin I would like to thank our employees, partners and suppliers for their Chairman dedicated work in what has been a challenging year for the company.
2 September 2005 INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS IFRS The company is required to report for the first time under IFRS for the 6 months to January 2006.
This transition is not expected to have any significant impact on the stated results of the company, 4 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
