Chairmans statement The reduction in our operating profit for the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2005, compared to that achieved in the previous accounting period, partly reflects the strong competitive trading conditions in the clothing sector of the retail trade but also is partly explained by the clearance of excess clothing ranges and fragmented stocks which impacted on our gross margin.
Trading conditions are as difficult as any I have known for some years and it is clear to me that consumers have tightened their belts and that this is fuelling competition between retailers.
I believe that trading conditions will continue to deteriorate as consumers feel the full impact of the increased interest rates and higher taxes which reduce disposable incomes: I feel that the low level of confidence amongst consumers is going to take some time to reverse.
In my opinion, the factors that would help to restore confidence amongst consumers would be a series of base rate cuts, accompanied by a reversal of the Governments continuing increases in direct and indirect taxation.
Over the last nine months we have taken certain measures that I believe will keep us competitive in the present environment.
At some cost to margin, we have successfully reduced our clothing stock by over 20m.
We have also re-established ourselves as sporting goods and sports clothing retailers what I class as back to basics.
The profit from our Leisure division continues to grow and we plan to open 18 combined health club superstores in the current accounting period.
Adjusted operating profits within this Division have increased to 10.6 million in the accounting period ended 30 January 2005 from 9.1 million in the previous accounting period see page 4 of this Annual report.
I am pleased to report that on 13 April 2005, we hit our milestone of 100,000 health club members.
I believe that our emphasis on the expansion of this concept over the coming years will make a significant contribution to the success of the Group.
By this time next year we are forecasting that we will have 175,000 members and our long term goal is 1,000,000 members nationwide.
Despite the reduced level of profit during the accounting period just ended, we continue to benefit from a very strong cash flow which supports the platform for the expansion of our Leisure Division and also of our stand alone superstores.
Dividend levels have also been maintained as an ongoing commitment to our shareholders.
The current difficult trading conditions present further challenges to our employees and mean that their work ethic is especially important: on behalf of the Board, I would again like to take this opportunity to thank all the Groups employees for their support and commitment in meeting these challenges.
D Whelan Chairman 26 May 2005 2 On 13 April, we hit our milestone of 100,000 health club members.
