Electric Submersible Pumps ESPs Logging Services Energy Supporting Energy During the year we have strengthened our significant Wood Group Logging Services provides cased hole position in the US market and also seen further electric wireline and slickline mechanical and The excellent performance of products and services delivered by Wood Group progress from our Canadian operations, where we are specialised services focused on well data acquisition building a new facility to support our growth.
In South and downhole operations.
In 2005, there was a strong was a driving force behind Pan American Energy's decision to select Wood Group America, we recently won a multi-year extension to an market for our services and we enjoyed good growth in important six year contract in Argentina, expanded our revenues and EBITA and continued to extend our for this current project....
The teamwork between the two companies and the operations in Ecuador and opened operations in service offering.
development of local suppliers shows the firm commitment that Pan American Colombia.
In Brazil, we secured a major contract for We expanded our slickline market share in the Gulf of Devon Energy, which we hope will provide a platform Mexico and further developed our land-based Energy and Wood Group have with the local community.
Russia is an important market for operations in Texas.
The focus on extending our ESPs and our Nizhnevartovsk facility in Western Siberia capability and improving the reliability of our equipment is helping us to add further repair work and grow our continued and we introduced an expanded product market share.
In the Middle East and Africa region, our range of smart slickline tools and a new 10 year performance contract with ExxonMobil in Chad PowerHammer for freeing downhole obstructions.
started up successfully and we have won contracts in Our electric wireline operations in the US and South Egypt.
America continued to grow and we believe we are the Our engineering and product development efforts cased hole logging market leader in Argentina.
We remain focused on increasing the run life of our introduced new technology during the year to expand equipment and reducing the lifetime operating cost for the range of services and markets that we can serve, our customers.
To that end, we have introduced a for example: number of product enhancements and new products we introduced a new offshore skid unit for deep water that expand our product offering into more difficult applications.
The 30 30 unit is capable of working at downhole conditions.
We have also introduced new, well depths below 30,000 feet and includes downhole patented technology aimed at the growing SAGD tools that will operate at 30,000 psi bottom hole steam assisted gravity drain market in heavy oil pressures: regions, such as Northern Alberta in Canada.
we introduced a new, high-resolution, casing inspection tool ECI Electronic Casing Inspection for Pressure Control improved data acquisition.
After a strategic review, we sold our Permanent We maintained our strong number two position in the Downhole Monitoring business in the fourth quarter for US market and made significant progress in expanding $31.4m including a working capital adjustment.
business had performed well but was non-core and will The Americas market was particularly active in the year better achieve its potential as part of a well completion and we won a number of new contracts and products specialist.
successfully extended a number of our existing Supporting Pan American Energy contracts with several large independent operators.
In in Argentina the US mid-continent and Rocky Mountain regions we Well Support Case Study expanded our infrastructure to serve the significantly increased activity in the area.
In Canada, our Wood Group ESP Argentina, Well Support ten years of operating in the clients oilfields as the operations enjoyed another year of good growth and, in preferred electric submersible pump service company Client: Pan American Energy Mexico, we won several contracts with Pemex and Both companies have developed a relationship based on western operators.
Value: $120 million Duration: 6 years trust by sharing know-how, team work and aligning goals.
Pressure Control now has a presence in 20 countries, Location: Golfo San Jorge Basin, Argentina including those in the Americas and a number of Activity: Wood Group ESP is providing and repairing electric locations in the Middle East, notably Saudi Arabia and Fact box submersible pumping systems, field service support, surface Egypt.
The number of wells with electric submersible equipment maintenance, engineering and logistics support.
The investment we have made in our manufacturing, pumps is expected to surpass 1,000 units during Technical details: The contract includes the installation, assembly and test capabilities in China is leading to the duration of the contract as part of the largest maintenance and on going service and support for Pan product cost improvements.
We are continuing to secondary recovery projects in Argentina.
American Energys 570 wells operating electric submersible extend our capacity and will source an increasing Pan American is a joint venture between BP 60% pumps.
70 Wood Group employees are currently working on portion of our equipment from China in the future.
We and Bridas 40% an Argentine oil company the project.
are continually looking at ways to enhance the safety of our products and generate cost savings for our Client benefit: Terms used: customers, and, during 2005, we introduced a new Longterm operating cost improvements through Electric Submersible Pump: An artificial lift system that utilises a generation of our low profile wellhead systems targeted downhole pumping system that is electrically driven.
outsourcing to a single service company for the land drilling markets.
This product line reduces Secondary recovery: The second stage of production during which Most well related activities with electric submersible pumps the amount of rig time required and enhances safety an external fluid such as water or gas is injected into the reservoir.
under a long-term contract during pipe size changes.
The purpose of secondary recovery is to maintain reservoir Wood Group provides expertise acquired from more than pressure and to displace hydrocarbons toward the wellbore.
20 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 21 Gas Turbine Services GTS Global Operations Our cost reduction and efficiency improvement programmes and a more stable US power market have contributed to the improved financial performance.
m Countries in which GTS operate Gas Turbine Services is the world-leading Our cost reduction and efficiency improvement independent provider of integrated maintenance programmes and a more stable US power market solutions, and repair and overhaul services for have contributed to the improved financial industrial gas turbines, used for power generation, performance in the year, and the positive margin BROADENING EXTENDING SERVICES INTERNATIONAL compression and transmission in the oil & gas and trend.
In order to continue to develop and grow the REACH power generation industries.
division we have retained our focus on broadening and enhancing our capabilities and extending our international reach, see figure 3.
BROADER RANGE EXPANDED OF RE-ENGINEERED OPERATIONS IN 2005 2004 Change PARTS GROWTH THAILAND.
GAS TURBINE IN LTSAs & O&M WON NEW Revenues $607.8m$537.9m 13% SERVICES SERVICES CONTRACTS IN RUSSIA, POLAND, EBITA $32.7m $23.5m 39% CHINA, MEXICO & COLOMBIA EBITA margin 5.4% 4.4% 1.0% points Figure 3 22 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 23 Energy Supporting Energy Aero-derivative During the year, we increased the portion of our business under long term contract.
We successfully Wood Group has committed to We have three aero-derivative gas turbine businesses completed a number of outages on our GLOW contract provide the level of service that we Rolls Wood Group - our joint venture with Rollsin Thailand and were awarded a range of contracts, Royce, primarily serving customers in the oil & gas including a long-term maintenance contract with Alliant require for a critical asset market Energy Corp. to provide maintenance services to two we look forward to working closely GE 7FA turbines.
Wood Group Pratt & Whitney - our joint venture with Pratt & Whitney, serving customers in the oil & gas with Wood Group and towards our The focus on re-engineered parts is also an important and power markets part of our development.
Our long-term contracts mutual success which include the supply of parts to six GE 7EA TransCanada Turbines our joint venture with turbines owned by the Dhofar Power Company in the TransCanada Pipelines, which is both GE LM and Sultanate of Oman and three GE turbines partially Rolls-Royce approved, serving customers in the oil & owned by El Paso Energy in Brazil continue to perform gas and power markets.
We were also awarded a number of new contracts Rolls Wood Group had another strong year, and we in the year, including a six-year packaged maintenance have continued to increase the share of business that is services contract, including the supply of re-engineered under long term contracts.
TransCanada Turbines parts, for British Nuclear Fuels Fellside Combined Heat delivered an improved financial performance, driven by and Power CHP plant.
increased volumes, including good growth in its oil & gas activities.
Wood Group Pratt & Whitney Support Services successfully expanded its scope to include the The broad range of ancillary turbine services support provision of spare parts which contributed to its our Aero-derivative, LIT and HIT offerings and help us increased volumes in the year.
to offer our clients an integrated service.
Light Industrial Turbines LIT Our power plant operations & maintenance activities made excellent progress including securing four new Our LIT activities include the repair and overhaul of the contracts in the year.
Siemens and Solar light industrial turbine ranges, which are focused primarily on oil & gas applications.
Wood Group Power solutions business, which provides complete mid-sized gas turbine packages, often on an In 2005, we strengthened the management team and EPC Engineering, Procurement and Construction increased our sales efforts in a number of locations.
basis, had another good year with over 170MW of This helped deliver improved performance in the North power installed for projects in Colombia, Utah in the US, Sea and the Americas.
We have also entered a number Sardinia and the Republic of Georgia.
of new countries in the year, including the provision of inspection, maintenance services and supply of spare Our Generator Services business, which provides parts for Surgutneftegaz in Russia.
Future growth will electrical generator and motor maintenance services to be driven by increasing our range of re-engineered power plant operators, showed reduced losses, Supporting SMUD in USA parts and extending the range of turbines for which we following the very disappointing results in 2004.
recovery plan is now progressing and we anticipate a Gas Turbine Services Case Study further improvement in performance in 2006.
Client benefit: Bringing together high quality operations Heavy Industrial Turbines HIT Wood Group Power Operations, Gas Turbine Services & maintenance services with value added solutions Our Accessories and Components activities performed The Groups HIT activities focus primarily on industrial satisfactorily in a relatively flat market, with lower Client: Sacramento Municipal Utility District Financing gas turbines used in power generation applications.
revenues from our military aviation customers offset by Authority SMUD Fact box some good progress in industrial markets.
Our financial performance improved with the Value: $multi million The Sacramento Municipal Utility District is the sixth anticipated benefits from our programme of cost largest community-owned electric utility in the US in reductions and efficiency improvements.
The US power Duration: 10 year market is more stable and, in the Rest of the World, terms of customers served and generates, transmits Location: Sacramento, California, USA there are good opportunities for growth.
In the Eastern and distributes electric power to a 900 square mile Hemisphere, we have seen increased price competition service area in California.
Activity: Provision of full care, custody and control from some component repair providers.
As part of our operations & maintenance services, including Wood Group Power Solutions provides a wide range focus on lower cost component repair, we have mobilisation, start up support and ongoing operations & of maintenance, repair and overhaul services.
increased our presence in Thailand and significantly maintenance support services reduced our HIT component repair activity in Dundee, Scotland.
This action, together with some further cost Technical details: 2 GE Frame 7FA advanced technology Terms used: GEs F class turbines are among the most reduction actions, has resulted in a $6m impairment gas turbines at the 500MW combined cycle Cosumnes advanced technology turbines and are a growing market and restructuring charge.
Power Plant opportunity for Wood Group.
24 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 25 Health, Safety & the Environment Maintaining a healthy workplace, preventing accidents and minimising adverse environmental impacts are at the top of our business objectives.
This page: This page: SulzerWood a Wood Group company is presented with a Volunteers from Wood Group plant 7,500 trees at the St RoSPA Gold Safety Award in recognition of the companys Fittick woodland site in Aberdeen.
safety performance and Health & Safety Management System.
Maintaining a healthy workplace, preventing accidents improvements and it provides an approach that ensures GROUP BUSINESSES MARKETS CLIENTS and minimising adverse environmental impacts are at the REGULATIONS consistent and continuously improving Quality, Health, top of our business objectives.
Adopt and Safety and Environmental performance.
translate into... HSE The Board of Directors are responsible for setting Group HSE 'RED BOOK' EXPECTATIONS A web based reporting and management tool CAIRS POLICY objectives and targets and reviewing performance.
Les Corporate Accident and Incident Reporting System is Thomas is the Board Director responsible for HSE issues.
used to record and analyse safety performance.
The Groups principles, long-run goals and targets are set out Recognise Companies report quarterly on their performance and a and develop...
ANNUAL in our HSE Red Book and the priorities for the year are set ANNUAL SPECIFIC summary report is submitted to the Group Board.
GROUP HSE PLAN ISSUES out in the annual Group HSE Plan.
Group businesses then HSE PLAN The Group runs a number of initiatives to encourage set down their own policy and long-run HSE goals and improved HSE performance, reward excellence among annual targets in line with their own business environment, individuals and companies and encourage best practice see figure 4.
These include Group HSE conferences and The Groups HSE Red Book guidance is based on the regional forums North and South America, Europe, Middle following management systems: East and Asia Pacific, the Chairmans awards, training OHSAS 18001:1999, Occupational Health and Safety Figure 4 programmes and incentive plans.
This provides a framework for managing Occupational Health & Safety OH&S We carry out regular formal internal audit and verification responsibilities alongside other business requirements to responsibilities so that they can be effectively managed reviews.
In addition, we are also subject to extensive achieve both economic and environmental goals.
and integrated into overall business operations.
audits and reviews by customers, along with external ISO 14001:2004, Environment Management Standard.
This reviews from certifying authorities, regulatory bodies and standard focuses upon business controls and This provides a framework for managing environmental independent consultants.
26 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC 27
