Chairmans Statement Serving local communities through the provision of news, information and entertainment has been at the heart of the Johnston Press culture for more than 150 years.
In 2005 Johnston Press was able to Dividend achieve a robust profit performance The Board proposes a final dividend of despite the significant downturn in 5.6p per share, making a total of 8.4p recruitment advertising experienced per share for the year.
This compares by the industry as a whole.
to 7.2p per share in 2004, an increase The growth in profit before tax of 17%.
reflects tight cost controls and increased business efficiencies as Growth in local media well as the development of new During the year we were successful in revenue streams including those making a number of acquisitions of from web-based products aimed at companies which specialise in local local markets.
In the face of difficult publishing.
The principal acquisitions trading conditions the staff of were Score Press Ltd, Leinster Leader Johnston Press have shown Ltd, Local Press Ltd and finally The themselves to be flexible and highly Scotsman Publications Ltd, which did effective.
On behalf of shareholders, not complete until 4 January 2006 and I would like to congratulate them all therefore has not been consolidated on the results they have achieved.
The process of integrating these businesses into the Results existing Johnston Press management Overall revenues for the year were structure is going well.
This was up only have acquired more than 50 new print 0.2% on 2004 reflecting the significant titles in Scotland, Northern Ireland and Roger Parry downturn in recruitment advertising.
The majority of Chairman Operating profit for 2005 was these are weekly publications but they 177.7 million, flat on a 53 week 2004. include three notable daily titles, The Underlying earnings per share were News Letter in Northern Ireland, The 38.62p, up 2%.
Scotsman and The Edinburgh Evening 10 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 News, in addition to our first paid-for writing, both projects are to schedule Prospects Sunday title, Scotland on Sunday.
and coming in below budget.
These In the early weeks of 2006 the These acquisitions bring the total of new presses will significantly increase advertising market remains challenging local weekly and daily newspapers our ability to print in colour.
with no early signs of recovery.
The published by Johnston Press to more Group remains committed to than 300.
In addition we publish many Strategy improving operating efficiencies and hundreds of other specialist local Serving local communities through the maintaining a tight control of costs.
publications and operate more than provision of news, information and 250 websites.
entertainment has been at the heart of The Board is delighted with progress the Johnston Press culture for more made integrating our recent Classified advertising than 150 years.
This mission remains acquisitions and, providing market About half the Groups income comes the driving principle of the company.
conditions do not significantly worsen, from the sale of classified advertising.
Johnston Press is often called a local we are confident that 2006 will again During 2005, property advertising grew newspaper publisher but this is be a year of progress in building our strongly, motors fell marginally but there increasingly an inaccurate description local media franchises.
was a significant reduction in spending of what the company really does.
It is by companies and the public sector true that we are primarily focused on seeking to recruit staff.
On the evidence local communities rather than national available to us, we believe that this markets but we serve those significant drop in recruitment communities through a wide range of advertising is cyclical rather than publications, both printed and digital.
It would appear to reflect In many of our markets our portfolio government policy in terms of cutting includes a wide range of print Roger PARRY back on local government recruitment publications such as lifestyle guides, Chairman and a general slowdown in the property magazines and motoring 8 March 2006 economy rather than migration of supplements in addition to our spending to websites.
All the communities we however, the Board of Johnston Press serve now have our local websites does recognise that web-based available to them.
recruitment advertising is attractive to employers.
Accordingly, we are Board devoting significant management time Other than the appointments of and resource to the continuing Mr Danny Cammiade and Mr Les development of our own web-based Hinton on 17 March 2005 which I products.
In this context it is very reported last year, there have been no pleasing to note the significant success changes to the membership of your of our web-based CV matching service.
It consists of five independent This enables candidates for jobs and non-executives, two non-executives providers of employment to match up representing the Johnston family their respective objectives.
Our new interest, three executives and myself.
revenues from CV matching in 2005 Each year the Board is subject to an were 1.1 million.
analysis of its own performance.
The 2005 performance review Investment in the business suggests the Board continues to In addition to developing our webfunction well and it remains compliant based publishing, we have continued with all aspects of the Combined Code.
to demonstrate our commitment to equipping our business with the best available technology.
Our new 60 million investment in a triple-width press in Sheffield will be coming onstream in the third quarter of 2006.
The similar installation in Portsmouth at a cost of 50 million will be coming on-stream a year later.
At the time of Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11
