indd Proof: 10 Operator: Dave Date: 31 03 06 Server: Studio l Set-up: Tracy Annual Report & Accounts 2005 4 Kazakhmys PLC Chairmans Statement There is no doubt that 2005 will always be a landmark year in the history of Kazakhmys.
Vladimir Kim Executive Chairman I am delighted to present Kazakhmys PLCs [vISUAL OnLy] first set of financial results for the year ended 31 December 2005.
There is no doubt that 2005 will always be a landmark year in the history of Kazakhmys.
We started the year as a long-life, low-cost mining company based in Kazakhstan, little known outside of the country.
By the year end, we had successfully launched our shares on the London Stock Exchange, raising $491.2 million in net proceeds and, within three months of Listing and at the first opportunity for inclusion, we entered the FTSE 100 Index - becoming the first CIS business to do so.
As a result of our successful Listing, Kazakhmys is now well placed to pursue its long-term goals.
Our strong share price performance illustrates the appetite from institutional investors for Kazakhmys as the price rose from 5.40 by 43% to reach 7.74 at the end of December 2005.
We believe that the success of our Listing also reflects the fundamental attraction of our business and Kazakhstan, with its current political stability, growing economy and exceptionally rich natural resources.
Less than six months have passed between our Listing and the production of our first set of financial results as a listed company.
In this period, a great deal has already been achieved.
We retained our business focus throughout the Listing process and in 2005 we have seen production figures at levels comparable with previous years, which, when combined with high copper and other metal prices, resulted in strong financial results.
In 2005, the Groups revenues for the year rose to $2,597.5 million, a 106.2% increase on 2004.
One of our key measures for comparing underlying trading performance between years, EBITDA excluding special items, increased by 35.6% to $1,073.5 million.
On the back of these results, the Board has proposed an inaugural final dividend Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Kazakhmys PLC 5 Employees of the Group equivalent to 36.0 US cents per share in development of the Group.
The quality and respect of full year earnings in line with our industry knowledge of our Board members guidance at the time of the IPO.
will strengthen and complement the skills and experience of our management team.
Our strategic objective for the future is to maintain and strengthen our position as Our employees are a fundamental part of a leading copper producer and achieve a the business and we remain committed world class reputation.
We will combine our to improving the safety environment strong focus on copper with diversification across our asset portfolio.
The Group has into other commodities within our region established a Health, Safety & Environment whilst continuing to maximise operational HSE Committee chaired by David Munro, efficiencies and deliver organic growth.
an independent non-executive Director, With virtually no debt and strong cash to monitor the Groups progress in raising flows from our operations, we are well HSE standards and performance.
We placed to make acquisitions where we are also delivering on our commitment find value-adding opportunities.
to the broader community within which we operate.
On 14 March 2006 we announced that the independent members of the Board of Looking ahead, supply and demand Kazakhmys PLC had granted permission fundamentals suggest continued copper to me in a personal capacity to acquire price strength throughout 2006.
We a 25% interest in EnRC Kazakhstan anticipate that the lower production levels Holding B. v. EKH, the holding company in the first two months of 2006 will not be for certain assets of the Eurasia natural representative of the expected copper Resources groups metals and mining cathode production for the whole of business, which primarily operates in 2006.
We anticipate that 2006 production Kazakhstan, on the basis that the Company of copper cathode will be moderately is given the benefit of a call option in higher than 2005, driven by a higher level respect of my shareholding in EKH.
Any of production from own concentrate.
decision to exercise the call option would We will continue to maintain our tight be taken by an independent committee of focus on cost control and seek further the Board.
While I pledged certain shares growth opportunities.
to facilitate this transaction, I remain a fully committed long-term shareholder I would also like to take this opportunity of Kazakhmys PLC.
to thank all our employees, management team and advisers, who contributed I continue to remain bound by all of the to Kazakhmys success in 2005.
Their terms of my employment contract with dedication and commitment are crucial Kazakhmys PLC and, in particular, the in delivering these results and creating obligations in that contract not to compete, further shareholder value in the future.
directly or indirectly, with Kazakhmys PLC.
As a newly-floated company on the London vladimir Kim Stock Exchange, my Board colleagues and Executive Chairman I are firmly committed to delivering high 29 March 2006 standards of corporate governance.
We believe that the combination of strong management and independent Directors will play a decisive role in the strategic
