A message from your Chairman The Board is greatly encouraged by the improvement in the Groups financial performance.
Dear Shareholder Board changes During this year, we announced a number of Results Board changes.
We began the year in a much improved position with clear objectives to continue to strengthen the In January we announced the appointment of Groups financial performance and to pay a dividend Executive Director Peter Halls and Non-Executive to our shareholders.
We have achieved these Directors Johannes Huth and Clare Page.
Revenue from our continuing business, aged 54, is a director of the Groups business-toexcluding acquisitions, has increased and margins business operation, Affiniti.
Peter was formerly CEO have improved resulting in an increased operating of Omnetica and has over 25 years experience in profit.
This improvement in profitability has provided the IT industry.
Johannes Huth, aged 44, is Head the basis for both the payment of an interim dividend of European activities for one of the Groups major and a proposed final dividend.
Clare Page, aged 34, has been a member of the Kingston upon Strategy Hull City Council since May 2002 and was previously In terms of strategic direction for the Group, a Non-Executive Director of the Company from we accelerated our positioning as a provider of October 2002 until June 2003. integrated, converged communications services in the UK through the acquisitions of Omnetica and Maxwell Bird, a Non-Executive Director since June Technica.
The combined capabilities of the resulting 2003, resigned from the Board in March.
We thank business-to-business operation have reduced him for his contribution and wish him well.
our exposure to increasingly commoditised basic telecommunications voice services and provided Outlook us with access to higher quality recurring revenues.
The Board is greatly encouraged by the At the same time, we have created an enviable improvement in the Groups financial performance.
combined customer base with demonstrable In light of this we are recommending payment of strengths in discrete market segments.
a final dividend of 0.54 pence per share, resulting in a full year dividend of 0.9 pence per share.
The acquisition of Eclipse Internet complements As outlined at the time of our interim results, our our existing broadband capability and gives us future policy is to increase dividends in line with the opportunity to increase our broadband service underlying earnings before amortisation of portfolio and develop a customer base throughout intangible assets.
The new financial year has begun in line with our These additions to our Group, combined with the expectations as we start to see early benefits from continued focus and capacity to meet the changing the initial stages of the integration of the business.
communications needs of our customers, have We look forward to delivering further improvement greatly enhanced our position over the year.
in the Groups overall performance in the year ahead.
Michael Abrahams CBE DL Chairman 1
