Chairmans statement The focus on water operations continues to give significant total benefits.
The single largest profit driver was the performance awarded and named as the Utility of the Year The strong performance reported of Yorkshire Water Services which had an at the Utility Industry Achievement Awards.
in the first half was well maintained outstanding year.
The main source of the profit In the UK we have formed Kelda Water Services and improved in the second giving improvement was out-performance with operating to provide a distinct identity for, and dedicated an excellent full year result for cost savings of 120m, and capital cost efficiencies management focus on, our third party outsourcing 2004 05.
For the year total group of 13%, achieved in the AMP3 5 year regulatory operations business.
It has developed significant period ending in March 2005.
There was also a turnover was up 5.2%, group profit momentum having implemented the MoD sales revenue benefit from the full year effect of before taxation and exceptional contract secured last year and had further success the interim price determination awarded in 2003. in gaining a major contract with Welsh Water items increased 16.8% to 223.7m, The focus on water operations continues to which commenced in April of this year.
Kelda giving adjusted earnings per share, give significant total benefits.
YWS achieved an Water Services remains actively engaged in the excluding deferred tax, of 53.2p an excellent overall performance.
It obtained a unique pursuit of further outsourcing opportunities.
Loop, increase of 15.2% on prior year.
four As in the Ofwat operating and efficiency the customer service operation, had a period measures in drinking and waste water operations.
refocusing on key competencies and KeyLand On compliance measures it produced its best ever performed well.
drinking water and waste water performance.
The main area of performance below expectations There were also further reductions in water related to Aquarion in the USA.
Although profit was leakage and in pollution incidents.
All these maintained in dollar terms on a year to year basis, achievements helped Yorkshire Water to be ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE excluding deferred tax increased 53.2p 15.2% to 53.2p.
FULL YEAR DIVIDEND increased 8.1% to 29.0p per share.
8.1% 02 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 results were affected by a very wet summer which to manage change under the leadership of its recreation, supported by an extensive reduced metered consumption and an expected Chief Executive, Kevin Whiteman.
YWS has entered environmental consultative policy group, which benefit from a rate case in Connecticut was not into a five year pay and conditions agreement includes a wide range of external regional achieved.
Exchange rates were also adverse.
The supporting more flexible working and revised stakeholders.
new management performed well in mitigating bonus arrangements.
We also continue to invest The other key event of the year was the these effects with significant reductions in the significantly in management and staff training confirmation of the YWS price determination cost base.
Raising the rate of return remains an and upgraded computer based operational and for the next five year regulatory period, AMP4.
ongoing priority and we are well placed to make management control processes.
As reported at the half year this was within our progress on this aim.
The company also actively supports the expectations and broadly acceptable on a The excellent results of the company do not communities in which it operates.
We run a company and industry basis.
The one time gains arise by chance.
They result from a dedicated series of programmes, encouraging staff made by the company in achieving operating management team and staff who understand that participation in a wide range of areas.
The main cost out-performance within the previous AMP3 we need to make continuous improvements and focus is on supporting disadvantaged groups, regulatory period give an indefinite sustainable look at new ways of working.
The company has particularly in primary education, health and benefit to customers.
The reduced cost base successfully demonstrated its mantra of focus, leisure, and making the optimum use of our becomes the start point of the AMP4 price and its ability to combine cost and efficiency gains property assets.
In addition to our crucial determination and helped Kelda achieve the with improved standards of service and regulatory environmental responsibilities we actively promote lowest possible price increases to customers.
It continues successfully and actively balanced land use access, conservation and 16.8% GROUP PROFIT before taxation and exceptional items up 16.8% to 223.7m.
763.0m KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 03 Chairmans statement continued In considering the relative position of shareholders Looking further ahead the strategic focus of the My final task this year, therefore, is to thank on the board has taken note that within the AMP3 company on water, over the last regulatory period, behalf of shareholders all management and staff period very limited real increases in dividend have the related sell down of non-water assets, and and particularly the retiring directors Mr Roberts been paid to date.
The board has therefore significant improvements in performance, have and Mr Jackson for their contribution to the decided to recommend a final dividend payment together placed the company in a strong financial company.
The new regulatory period AMP4 sets of 20.66p which equates to an 8% dividend position.
Subject to the company continuing to new challenges.
We will need to maintain and increase for the full year.
This makes the average maintain its standards of performance, to not progress our management and performance rate of real increase of the dividend over the AMP3 receiving unexpected external shocks, and to standards if we are to meet the next 5 year price period of 1% per annum, well within regulatory meeting the challenges within AMP4, there is determination and deliver our plans.
We all look guidelines of a maximum of 2% per annum.
scope to optimise the balance sheet structure.
The company, therefore, intends to increase its The intent going forward in AMP4 will be, subject borrowings to return capital to shareholders via to the performance of the company, at least to a limited share buyback programme.
This will maintain the real level of dividends while staying have the effect of improving our cost of capital within the inflation and growth limits factored into and of reducing future dividend costs.
The new regulatory period has buyback programme will be kept under review.
some significant challenges particularly from cost It is anticipated, however, that this could involve JOHN NAPIER pressures in the first year.
The USA has a similar the purchase of 5% of the Kelda equity over the Chairman challenge.
Work commenced within 2004 05, next two years.
Kelda Group plc as evidenced by an exceptional charge of 5.4m within these results, to ensure plans have been The company has also benefited from the support developed in detail to meet these challenges.
of an energetic, supportive and active board.
Derek Roberts, currently the longest serving Kelda director, and Ken Jackson will retire after the AGM in July.
I am pleased to announce that Kate Avery, the Retail Distribution Director of Legal and General, and Ed Anderson, Chief Executive of Leeds Bradford Airport, will be joining the board in June.
04 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005
