CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE SALE OF HILTON INTERNATIONAL WILL CREATE SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDER VALUE, AND WE ARE CONFIDENT IN THE FUTURE OF LADBROKES AS A STAND ALONE PLC.
It has been a momentous year for Hilton Group, Share and a final dividend of 6.6 pence per culminating in the announcement of the sale of Existing Ordinary Share in respect of the year Hilton International shortly before the year end, ended 31 December 2005.
The Board reached thereby creating significant shareholder value this decision having given careful consideration and enabling us to return up to 4.2 billion to the proposed method of returning value to to shareholders.
The sale was completed shareholders, and has examined a number of on 23 February 2006. alternatives in an effort to balance the interests of all shareholders.
Hilton Group enjoyed a good performance in 2005, with profit before tax and non-trading At the record date for the proposed dividend the items growing by 9.9% to 413.9 million, Company will undertake a share consolidation, and EPS rising by 8.9% to 22.0 pence.
details of which are contained under shareholder information on page 125.
Taking account of the This report reviews Hilton Groups results for Groups expected capital requirements, potential 2005, but we urge you to read the accompanying investment opportunities and other relevant brochure on Ladbrokes, which offers a view on factors, the Board has concluded that a target the current and future activities of what is the net debt to EBITDA range of 3.5 to 3.75 times acknowledged brand leader in its sector.
The Ladbrokes business has achieved strong Assuming full conversion of the Groups growth in recent years in what is a constantly convertible bonds and the exercise of all changing business.
After the acquisition of Jack outstanding employee share options, the Brown, the Ladbrokes shop estate now numbers aggregate amount of the return of value to 2,538, and our online offering has grown at 94% Shareholders will amount to approximately year on year in terms of contribution.
Based upon the current confident in the future of Ladbrokes and will issued share capital the aggregate return continue to innovate and expand its product of value to shareholders will amount to range and services going forward.
The Board believes that this is a very successful I am pleased to announce the conclusion of the outcome for all shareholders.
Ladbrokes capital structure review and, subject to completion of the disposal of the Hotel Division, In acknowledgement of the necessary cash for the Board intends to recommend to shareholders the capital expenditure of ongoing business, the the payment of dividends totalling 240.0 pence Board feels comfortable in adopting a dividend per Existing Ordinary Share comprising a special policy of about 2 times cover in the medium-term.
dividend of 233.4 pence per Existing Ordinary 10.0% 233.4 pence Dividends special dividend will be returned to shareholders The final dividend for the year will be 6.6 pence, in conjunction with the final dividend.
up 10.0% on last year, giving a full year total dividend of 10.4 pence: an increase of 8.3%.
02 Annual Report and Accounts We were one of the early FTSE100 companies The Board Outlook to comply fully with the requirements of the My Board colleagues and I are grateful to With just a few weeks of 2006 behind us, Combined Code, and the Board remains fully David Michels and Brian Wallace, for their whilst the retail estate has suffered from committed to maintaining the highest standards significant contribution to the Group, which a loss of horse racing fixtures and some poor of corporate governance.
We are also cognizant is reflected in the growth and success of the results, we are encouraged by the recovery of the importance of Corporate Social business.
Both will be resigning from the Board in Telephone Betting and the continued Responsibility and made good progress in 2005: upon completion, and we wish them success success of our eGaming Division.
we are confident that the Group will continue in their future endeavours.
to make a positive contribution within society.
We expect 2006 to offer an action packed year David has been Group Chief Executive for on the sporting front.
In June and July the World Overview of results the last six years, and has very successfully Cup promises to be the biggest betting event Hilton Group profit before taxation adjusted for steered the Group through a challenging ever.
The year ends with Englands defence of on-trading items rose 9.9% to 413.9 million.
period in both our sectors, whilst Brian, as the Ashes in Australia in December, which we This is a record number for your company.
Deputy Group Chief Executive and Group hope will again capture the nations betting Finance Director for the past six and 11 years attention.
These events, together with the final Betting and Gaming gross win increased by respectively, has made a major contribution stages of the Champions League, Cheltenham, 4.7% to 918.0 million with growth across Retail to the financial success of the Company.
Aintree, Epsom and Ascot will make this an and Online channels.
Operating costs increased exciting year for Ladbrokes.
by 9.5% due to extended opening hours, an We are fortunate to have Christopher Bell increase in the size of the shop estates in UK as Chief Executive Officer of Ladbrokes plc.
We will continue to see innovation in our online and Ireland, and content provision and shared Chris has led our Betting & Gaming business gaming operation, witnessed already this year partnership payments in eGaming.
Operating successfully for the last 11 years.
Rosemary by the launch of Mahjong, and in the second half profit fell by 2.3% to 266.6 million.
Thorne, previously Finance Director of Bradford of the year we will see the opening of our first & Bingley and Sainsburys, joins Ladbrokes as new bricks and mortar casino in Paddington.
The Hotel Division grew operating profit by Group Finance Director.
Internationally our consultancy agreement with 17.9% to 187.5 million, as the recovery in China demonstrates the value of our knowledge overall trading continued.
Asset sales totalling We also welcome John OReilly and Alan Ross and experience in the global market and this will over 535 million were completed in 2005, to the Board, as Managing Director of eGaming be followed by agreements in other markets and we announced the sale of the Hotel Division & Telephone Betting and Managing Director of during 2006. to Hilton Hotels Corporation for 3.3 billion in European Retail respectively: both have been December 2005. with Ladbrokes for many years, and are highly respected within their sector.
Hilton Groups basic EPS grew 8.9% to 22.0 pence 2004: 20.2 pence.
Fully diluted EPS was 20.9 pence 2004: 19.0 pence after adjusting for share options and the convertible bond.
It has been a momentous year for Hilton Group, 9.9% culminating in the announcement of the sale Results of Hilton International.
Hilton Group profit before taxation adjusted for non-trading items rose 9.9% to a record 413.9m.
Sir Ian Robinson, Chairman, 22 February 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 03
