Chairmans statement Securing the future a year of strategic growth Strategy Corporate Social Responsibility Laird has established a successful strategy of focusing on As a growing international Group, the Board believes that it is important higher growth markets, obtaining a competitive edge through for us to be good corporate citizens in the different locations and technology and customer service allied to a well established, environments in which the Group operates.
Our Group policies on but still expanding, low cost manufacturing base, currently in ethics, on health, safety and the environment, and on employment Asia and Central Europe and with the potential to be developed are reinforced by a commitment to continuous improvement across in Mexico and India.
Lairds strategy is to focus on specialist our businesses.
2005 was a year of further progress markets which provide opportunities for growth, while our global in our overall performance in these areas.
All of our reach provides advantages compared to many of our more main manufacturing facilities were accredited regional or local competitors.
In line with this strategy Laird has to the ISO 14001 standard, with its additional expanded, and intends to continue to expand, the technology, environmental requirements, during the course of market access, product offering and geographic spread of our the year, with the remaining recent acquisitions divisions.
The Laird strategy is one driven by the overriding targeted to achieve accreditation during 2006. objective of creating and growing shareholder value, today and in This is in addition to the majority of our main the future.
manufacturing facilities being ISO 9001 and 9000 certi ed.
We have seen bene ts of introducing these standards to our facilities Delivery of Pro table Growth and aim to reinforce these systems by 2005 saw further good progress made by the Group.
We completing the integration of the strengthened and developed both our market leading divisions, British Standards Occupational Laird Technologies and Laird Security Systems, during the year health and safety speci cation, through organic investment and acquisitions, and continued our OHSAS 18001, into each of repositioning of the Group to higher growth markets.
We have our ISO 14001 registered again delivered positive organic revenue growth together with sites during 2006.
Further good growth in underlying pro ts and earnings.
Group underlying details of our activities in pro ts before tax were 55.1 million in 2005, up 19% on the these areas are given 46.4 million reported in 2004.
Earnings per share on a similar in the Corporate basis were 28.9 pence, up 10% on the 26.3 pence in 2004.
Social Responsibility section of this Continuing Dividend Growth Report.
The Boards policy on dividends is to increase returns to shareholders progressively over time, re ecting both the Maintaining the underlying pro tability of the Group and the cash ow Momentum of requirements of the business.
Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.45 pence per share, payable to shareholders in the Group respect of their shareholdings recorded on the register on 5 May Laird has made 2006.
This will provide a total dividend for the year of 9.75 pence further good per share, compared with 9.2 pence per share for 2004 and progress in 2005, represents an increase of 6%.
again delivering good growth in revenue and underlying pro t. The strategic Board Development decisions which were made to David Morton, senior independent non-executive director, retired focus the Group on its two high from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in May 2005.
I quality divisions, both of which would like to thank David for his valuable service and extensive have opportunities for growth, contribution to the development of the Group.
John McDowall together with the investments has succeeded David Morton as the senior non-executive that have been made to director of the Board.
strengthen and develop each of them and to broaden their Our Employees product and market spread, have Laird employs some 9,000 people of many different nationalities again allowed the Group to move and cultures worldwide.
The Groups continuing progress and forward.
The Group intends to its further successful development during the year is a result continue to pursue and implement of the hard work and dedication of these employees and the this strategy, and is well positioned successes they have achieved.
Their support and commitment to make further progress in 2006. underpins the service we provide to our customers, and is critical in furthering the growth and future success of the Group.
I would Nigel Keen like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Board, to thank them all.
Chairman 2 The Laird Group PLC
