P2 Chairmans statement LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Chairmans statement Improving market conditions, increased scale and a broader geographic footprint should enable the LogicaCMG group to make further progress in 2006.
LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Chairmans statement P3 The gradual recovery in the market for IT The full year results overall were in line with our ensuring that our executive team is retained and services continued through 2005.
It was guidance throughout the year and delivered suitably incentivised.
characterised by sustained volume increases adjusted earnings per share of 7.6 pence accompanied by a growing demand for more 2004: 6.4 pence.
The board has declared a Outlook efficient delivery models.
Following our final dividend of 3.2 pence which, when added We expect market trends for IT services in 2006 acquisitions of Edinfor and Unilog, we enter to the interim dividend of 2.1 pence, gives a to be similar to 2005.
Increasing demand and 2006 with greater scale and a much stronger full year dividend increase of 4 per cent once more appetite for value, efficiency and risk European platform.
the bonus element of the rights issue is taken mitigation in our major markets will generate into consideration.
The telecoms In the first half of 2005, financial markets products business will continue to balance some remained cautious about the depth and Governance and the board decline in the more mature technologies with sustainability of the market recovery.
LogicaCMG The structure of the board has changed to growth in emerging technologies and markets.
was also one of the first companies in its sector reflect the significance of the Unilog acquisition to begin the transition to International Financial and its importance to the future performance of The combination of improving market conditions, Reporting Standards and it took some time for the group.
Grard Philippot, the former Executive increased scale and a broader geographic market commentators to become familiar with President of Unilog, has joined the LogicaCMG footprint should enable the LogicaCMG group to the new form of presentation, including restated board as a non-executive director.
Didier make further progress in 2006, in line with comparatives and a heavier second half profits Herrmann, formerly Executive Vice President of current market expectations.
Consequently, share price progression Unilog, has also joined the LogicaCMG board in was held back until the interim results and the an executive capacity, responsible for our subsequent announcement of the Unilog businesses in France, Germany and Switzerland.
The shares ended the year up some 5 per cent and on a rising trend.
Since late During the year, we spent considerable time 2005, there has been a marked improvement in consulting with shareholders on the best ways to the sentiment towards technology stocks, and incentivise our directors and senior management particularly software and services companies, going forward.
Details of the results are provided which has been reflected in significantly higher elsewhere in this document and in the letter from volumes of shares being traded.
me that accompanies the notice of our Annual Cor Stutterheim General Meeting.
My letter and the notice set out Chairman It is encouraging to note that the dilutive effect of our proposals to introduce new share plans the rights issue to fund the Unilog acquisition subject to approval by the members at that was reversed within a month, underlining the meeting.
Our objectives have been to balance positive response we have had to this important the needs of our business with current best strategic move.
practice in corporate governance, whilst Adjusted earnings per share is defined on page 57.
