Chairmans statement World growth and strong metal prices produce a record year Anglo American chairman Mark Moody-Stuart describes how emerging market developments play to the strengths of the Group These figures are unacceptable, 005 was an excellent The outcome of our strategic review inconsistent with our values and year for Anglo American.
is addressed in detail in the chief must be improved.
To this end: 2Supported by strong metal executives statement.
It will prices, the Group once again lead towards a Group that is achieved record earnings.
The more focused on core extractive we have established a new peerperiod was dominated by the competencies and better able to review mechanism to identify and continued strength of metal realise value for shareholders.
spread best practice: markets and by our strategic review.
Conditions were Although economic cycles are still all our senior executives have been significantly more challenging with us, we are seeing a more through DuPont safety training and for our Paper and Packaging and sustained uplift in many commodity a similar leadership programme is Industrial Minerals businesses.
prices than has been experienced for being implemented across the However, despite the strong some years.
This has been driven organisation: commercial performance, the chiefly by the impact of Chinese Board continues to be profoundly growth.
Indeed, coupled with growing we have established a framework dissatisfied with the Groups optimism about Indias prospects, of 12 safety management safety performance.
A new drive we appear to be on the cusp of a standards: and is under way to deliver further realignment in the world economy.
This has major implications for our we have developed a Group.
The growth of the leading comprehensive Safety emerging market economies is Improvement Plan.
relatively materials-intensive as they devote a higher proportion of their This plan is based on three pillars: the growing wealth to infrastructure.
creation of a mindset that accepts Chinas consumer preferences also zero injuries as a realistic objective: mean that it remains the leading ensuring that we learn from each market for platinum jewellery incident and take action to prevent and a major source of demand for repeats: and adherence to a set of diamonds.
Moreover, Chinese, simple, non-negotiable standards.
Indian, Russian and Brazilian multinational companies are emerging Sustainable development both as significant competitors and In the face of climate change, we as potential partners.
must play our part in reducing carbon emissions.
We have a number of Safety perspectives: as major consumers During 2005, 46 people lost their of energy: as coal producers: as lives at our managed operations producers of platinum a key element compared with 49 in 2004. in autocatalysts and fuel cells and 02 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 welcomed Ren Mdori to the Board as managers of forests.
In terms of We are involved in a variety of as finance director and David Hathorn actions already under way: international partnerships, including and Simon Thompson, respectively the UN Global Compact, the Extractive chairmen of the Paper and Packaging, we have set initial targets for Industries Transparency Initiative, We appear to be and Base Metals and Industrial improving energy efficiency: the Voluntary Principles on Human on the cusp of Minerals divisions.
Rights and the Global Business a realignment investment proposals must include Coalition on HIV AIDS.
We were also in the world strong advocates of the G8 acting There have also been changes an assumed cost of carbon: economy.
This to address poverty in Africa, including amongst our non-executive directors.
has major pledging $2.5 million to support the Maria Silvia Bastos Marques is we are investing in coal-bed implications New Partnership for Africas standing down at the annual general methane projects: and for our Group Development NEPAD Investment meeting and I am grateful for the Climate Facility.
We were pleased to perspectives that she brought to our in Australia, we are evaluating receive Business in the Communitys deliberations.
As anticipated in last an ambitious project involving International Award as the company years annual review, Ralph conversion of coal to liquid fuels and judged to be making the biggest Alexander joined the Board in April potential carbon capture and storage.
contribution to the Millennium 2005 as an independent nonDevelopment Goals in Africa.
executive director and we were also We continue to make good progress in the implementation of our Sociopleased to welcome Peter Woicke, Economic Assessment Toolbox Governance formerly chief executive officer of the SEAT process.
SEAT is being There have been extensive changes International Finance Corporation, to implemented at around 40 major sites amongst the executive directors.
the Board at the beginning of 2006. in 16 countries.
The local reports Tony Lea and Barry Davison retired For a few months during 2005, due being generated help to improve from the Board at the end of 2005. to the importance of ensuring our interactions with surrounding Both are continuing to play a role in continuity, we were not compliant communities, our local development the Group and we are grateful to with the Combined Codes provisions on impacts and our risk management.
them for their service as directors the composition of the Board.
and for the major contributions which As promised, recent changes have they have made to the Company.
We restored us to full compliance.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 | 03
