MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 1 Chairmans statement PAUL MYNERS LAST YEAR WAS ONE OF THE MOST CHALLENGING MARKS & SPENCER HAS EVER FACED.
BUT WE HAVE EMERGED AS A LEANER, BETTER RUN BUSINESS.
At the start of the year the business was underperforming.
There were additional Board changes during the course of This prompted an unsolicited approach on 27 May by the year.
Brian Baldock and Dame Stella Rimington retired Revival Acquisitions.
The Board was determined to make as non-executives in July, to be replaced by Anthony sure value was achieved for shareholders and that the Habgood and Steven Holliday.
Vittorio Radice, Maurice business was not bought on the cheap.
We took two Helfgott, Mark McKeon and Laurel Powers-Freeling stepped immediate decisions.
down as executive directors as Stuart and his team set a new The first was that Luc Vandevelde, who had already course for the Company with the Boards full endorsement.
indicated he wanted to leave the Company early, should step More recently, Alison Reed has stepped down as Finance down as Chairman and that I should take his place on an Director after 20 years with the Company.
Ian Dyson has interim basis.
The second was that we should employ new been appointed in her place.
We thank our former colleagues executive leadership to accelerate the process of restoring for their contribution and welcome the new Board members.
On 31 May, Stuart Rose succeeded Our relationship with Marks & Spencer investors both Roger Holmes as Chief Executive.
Charles Wilson was also individual and institutional is high on the Boards list of appointed to the Board as an executive director.
Last year, we made sure a far greater proportion The new executive team was charged by the Board of shareholders had access to the Companys management with drawing up plans to improve business performance.
We also launched a shareholder voucher Six weeks later, Stuart and his team laid these plans scheme in summer 2004, which proved very popular, offering before institutional shareholders and analysts.
Individual discounts in-store during the autumn.
We will be repeating shareholders were given the same presentation at the this in July 2005 and extending our offer to those who hold Annual General Meeting two days later.
It was on the shares through nominee accounts.
We are also improving strength of these plans that the Board rejected Revival virtual audiovisual access to the Annual General Meeting and Acquisitions indicative offer of 400p a share, which we we launched an improved version of the corporate website believe undervalued the Company.
We are refocusing the business on its core values, In May 2005, we announced that Lord Burns will be Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust.
We are confident joining the Board as Deputy Chairman with effect from that progress is being made, albeit against a more challenging 1 October 2005 and will become Chairman from the Annual retail environment.
General Meeting in July 2006, when I will step aside from We also said we would acquire per una, dispose of the Board.
I am delighted that he is joining the Board and M&S Money and return 2.3bn to shareholders by way of that he will succeed me as Chairman.
With the appointment a Tender Offer.
Together with the return in 2002, we have of Terry, the Board can now work on completing the task of returned over 4bn to shareholders in the last four years.
broadening the diversity and skills present around the table.
The Tender Offer strike price of 362p emerged close to the The Board would like to thank shareholders for their market price of the shares, thereby avoiding a transfer of continued support and our employees and suppliers for their value to exiting shareholders.
Our balance sheet remains hard work, commitment and passion, which has been and strong, underpinned by the property portfolio, which was remains crucial to the delivery of Marks & Spencers strategy.
independently revalued at 3.6bn in July 2004.
