Corporate Objectives Customers are at the centre of our business.
We supply our customers with exclusive ranges of the highest quality landscape and walling products and provide outstanding levels of customer service in our chosen markets.
We continually innovate in the design of our products and in our methods of manufacture.
Our achievement of these objectives will ensure that we maintain and develop our market leading position.
Marshalls undertakes this challenging task with the objective of delivering superior rates of return to our shareholders and providing opportunities and reward for our employees.
Profile Marshalls manufactures and supplies landscape, driveway and garden products from a range of materials including concrete, natural stone, iron, steel, wood, glass and polyurethane, for Domestic, Public Sector and Commercial use.
The home improvement and home building markets are the largest users of the Groups products and we supply goods ranging from paving and walling to greenhouses and garages.
Public Sector and Commercial customers use Marshalls products to transform landscapes including retail, industrial, new build as well as repair and maintenance projects.
Marshalls customers are the large builders merchant groups, independent builders merchants, garden centres, contractors and local authorities.
Products are distributed from a national network of manufacturing and Service Centres either to customers depots or, at their request, direct to site.
Concept Paving Ammonite, Amber Colour 2 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 Rio Cascade Wavesets, Storm Colour CONTENTS Financial Highlights 1 Corporate Objectives and Profile 2 Chairmans Statement 4-5 Operating and Financial Review 7-19 Directors Biographical Notes and Advisers 20 Corporate Social Responsibility 21-23 Environmental Statement 24-27 Directors Report 28-30 Corporate Governance 31-36 Directors Remuneration Report 37-43 Audit Committee Report 44 Independent Auditors Report 45 Consolidated Income Statement 46 Consolidated Balance Sheet 47 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 48 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses 48 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 49-84 Company Balance Sheet 85 Company Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 86 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 86-90 Shareholder Information 91 Financial History - Consolidated Group 92 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 3 Chairmans Statement Your Group grew both revenue and earnings per share, in a year when trading conditions were as difficult as we anticipated in our report to you last year.
The earnings per share growth of 2.7 per cent, whilst being below our longer term strategic target, was a creditable result in the circumstances.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 8.40 pence 2004: 8.00 pence per ordinary share, making a total of 12.50 pence 2004: 11.90 pence for the year, an increase of 5.0 per cent.
This reflects our policy of increasing dividends in line with medium term earnings growth.
The International Financial Reporting Standard Concept Paving, Shadow Colour disclosure on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement is 12.10 pence 2004: 11.25 pence.
The Notwithstanding the difficult trading climate, we final dividend will be paid on 7 July 2006 to continued to invest for the benefit of our longer shareholders on the Register on 9 June 2006.
Costs were reduced throughout the ex-dividend date will be 7 June 2006.
Group, including two major site closures.
The Capital Expenditure programme extended the reach of automated manufacturing and positions the Group as a true low cost manufacturer in the industry.
We also continued revenue investments in the start up of our new consumer facing Transformation Centres.
Our operating result, the associated cashflow both commented on in detail in our Operating and Financial Review and our continued investment programme all underline the high quality and resilience of your Group.
During the year the Board, together with the Executive team, completed a strategic review of the business, confirming our view that we have positive growth potential in our core business and closely associated fields.
Woodstone Sleepers 4 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005
