Chairmans statement David Thompson Chairman Strong results were achieved through the continuing implementation of our strategies to deliver organic growth, and the successful integration of acquisitions.
The Anglers, Walton On Thames Annual report 2005 Chairmans statement Dividend part of the sales mix.
As a result, we We have achieved strong results The Board proposes a final dividend believe that we are well placed to manage across the business, building upon the of 25.66 pence per share, which any impact on our business from this progress of the previous financial year.
brings the total dividend for the year proposed legislation.
This performance demonstrates that to 38.86 pence per share 2004: 35.32 our model and approach is well suited pence, an increase of 10.0 % on the Employees to the current trading environment, previous year.
The Company has This year we welcomed to the Group enabling us to manage cost pressures increased dividends by an average of employees from Burtonwood, Jennings effectively and to meet increasing over 10% per annum for a period of and English Country Inns.
The customer demand for good quality more than 30 years and continues to successful and fast integration of outlets and value for money.
Our high adopt a progressive dividend policy.
these acquisitions has contributed quality, predominantly freehold estate The final dividend, if approved, will to our strong performance.
I thank of 2,290 pubs across England and be paid on 31 January 2006 to those all those involved and also those who Wales is a strong platform for our shareholders on the register at the work in our pubs, breweries and continued success.
close of business on 30 December 2005. support functions for their efforts during this year.
The continuing Results Refinancing success of the business is a testament Turnover increased by 16.3% to The Group refinanced its debt in to the talents and commitment of over 597.3 million 2004: 513.7 million August 2005, replacing existing 11,000 employees across the Group.
as a consequence of steady increases debentures and bank debt with a in like-for-like sales and the acquisitions 805 million securitisation and a Outlook of Burtonwood PLC, Jennings Brothers 275 million bank facility.
The new The regulatory and cost issues affecting PLC and English Country Inns PLC financing structure provides greater our industry have been challenging during the financial year, and the flexibility for acquisitions, increases and remain so.
We aim to continue acquisition of Wizard Inns Ltd in the the average maturity of the Group's to offset rising costs by improving prior year.
Turnover and profit growth debt and also reduces the cash interest productivity, partly facilitated by the was achieved in each of our three cost of debt by some 5 million per flexibility afforded by our business trading divisions.
A one-off contribution of 29 model, which allows us to reduce costs million was made to The Wolverhampton by transferring smaller managed pubs Underlying operating margin increased and Dudley Breweries, PLC final salary to tenancy or lease.
Our focus pension scheme in September 2005. on good quality freehold community Weaker consumer confidence has pubs and popular beer brands continues Legislation been widely reported, with rising to provide us with operational flexibility The new licensing regime, which has energy costs, higher taxes and greater and has enabled us to increase transferred licensing responsibility economic uncertainty putting pressure operating margins despite the continuing to local authorities and enabled more on discretionary spend.
Against this legislative and cost pressures faced flexible opening hours, became effective backdrop, our focus on good community by the industry.
In over 95% of pubs and value for money is an cases we have asked for, and received appropriate strategy.
Underlying profit before taxation consent to, a modest extension of increased by 16.0% to 90.1 million existing hours.
Having implemented We have a strong balance sheet and 2004: 77.7 million.
After goodwill the legislation, we are now focussed relatively conservative gearing which amortisation and exceptional items on realising maximum benefit from enables us to consider acquisition including refinancing costs primarily greater flexibility.
The issue of smoking opportunities as they arise in a relating to the associated redemption in public places, and therefore in consolidating sector and are confident of debentures, profit before tax was pubs, is now high on the governments about our prospects for the year.
The government envisages Underlying earnings per share that a partial ban in pubs will be increased by 11.3% to 84.4 pence per introduced at some stage in 2007. share 2004: 75.8 pence.
Basic earnings The current proposals are summarised per share after goodwill amortisation in the Chief Executives review.
David Thompson and exceptional items was 44.3 pence Chairman per share 2004: 66.7 pence.
We believe that the impact of a ban will be greater on poorly located, These results were achieved through uninvested pubs with limited trading the continuing implementation of opportunities.
Our strategy in recent our strategies for delivering organic years has been to dispose of such growth and the successful integration pubs and invest in higher quality of acquisitions.
outlets where food is an important W&DB 2005 05
