Chairmans Statement The improvement in performance delivered this year has been built upon the core strengths of the business.
We offer our customers a wide range of quality products at great Developing the brand worldwide would require significant value which we articulate as being High Street quality at half investment both in terms of cash and management attention.
Through disposal, we have retained the rights to use the brand in Matalan stores in the UK on non-denim activity and secured the Our offer has been delivered much more consistently across the ongoing supply of Lee Cooper denim product.
We have retained year and has been communicated to our customers through our what we wanted from the original acquisition and disposed of the unique, monthly direct mailing approach.
problematic wholesaling and manufacturing activities.
We have not As a result, the business is much improved on a year ago, profits ascribed a balance sheet value to the brand rights we have have been increased and debt has been reduced.
As such we have written down the consolidated assets by 27.3m.
Any further impact of the disposal will be reflected in the Given our improved business performance, the Board is 2005 6 results.
recommending a final dividend of 6.0p per share 2004: 5.4p per share which, together with the interim payment, will give full year Wolsey sales grew by 2.1% in the financial year and operating dividends of 8.9p per share 2004: 8.1p per share, an increase profits reduced to 0.5m 2004: 0.9m, due to the increased of 10.0%.
running costs associated with the 1.2m investment in a new distribution and head office facility.
Matalan Retail Sales in the financial year have made encouraging progress, with Board like for like sales up 4.5%.
As a volume, value retailer, most Changes were made to the Board during and since the end of the pleasing has been the recovery in volume growth.
The poor sales period so that the Combined Code will be complied with in all performance of the previous year has been reversed and reduced respects.
Lord Harris joined the Board as a non-executive markdown resulted in a substantial recovery in gross margins.
director on 21st October 2004, and a further two non-executive directors, Geoff Brady and Bill Shannon, joined the Board on 4th The important Christmas trading period produced a strong May 2005.
Martin Reavley will join the Board as a non-executive recovery in sales as the business implemented improved winter director during July 2005.
Martin Reavley has recently retired as ranges and better product availability.
There was also closer finance director at Kesa Electricals plc and previously held senior attention paid to discounting activity by our rivals, ensuring that finance roles at Kingfisher plc and Bass plc.
our value offering was not eroded.
Charles Thompson and John Westwood will retire as directors at The Spring Summer season was launched earlier than usual, with the conclusion of the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
The Board a Mailer at the end of February rather than in March, and this is thanks them for their contribution.
estimated to have benefited like for like sales growth for the year by approximately 0.2%.
It is intended that Geoff Brady will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Bill Shannon will become Chairman Operating profit increased by 37.6% to 90.1m 2004: 65.5m of the Nomination Committee.
It is also intended that Martin Reavley restated.
will become Chairman of the Audit Committee at a future date.
During the period Matalan opened 14 new stores including 4 resites and closed 1 store, bringing the total to 187 stores at the Outlook year end 2004: 15 new stores including 3 re-sites, and a total of In a toughening marketplace, our focus over the next twelve 178 stores.
In aggregate, an additional 0.5 million square feet of months is to manage greater efficiencies into the business.
net selling space was added to the estate in the period.
Total net For the new financial year, Matalan will consolidate on last years selling space amounted to 5.6 million square feet at the year end achievements.
Having re-established our value proposition, we 2004: 5.1 million square feet.
will now concentrate on a consistent delivery of that value, Other group companies providing even better products to our customers at great prices.
We will also focus on improving margins and cashflows through Lee Cooper faced difficult trading conditions in the financial year, better management of stocks, improved buying and a continued principally in the French market, resulting in sales falling by 2.1% focus on improving our retail offering to our customers.
and operating loss increasing to 1.1m 2004: 0.2m.
In focusing investment on core activities, Lee Cooper was identified for disposal and it was announced on 4th May 2005 that the Group had signed a contract to sell the business for a John Hargreaves gross consideration of 30m subject to completion accounts.
