McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Chairmans Statement Results overview The year from 1 September 2004 through to 31 August 2005 encompassed what some commentators describe as the most difficult trading conditions for housebuilders in the last ten years.
Against that backdrop we have delivered a resilient performance.
The Group started the year with a strong forward sales position and by the half year to 28 February 2005, achieved a slightly higher level of completions, 792 780, than in the comparable period.
At that stage the level of forward sales being carried into the second-half was very similar to the preceding year.
In the second-half of the financial year, the Group achieved 1,191 completions 1,275 and carried forward, to 1 September 2005, 255 reservations 440.
In view of a decelerating sales rate and the Groups existing healthy stock position we have taken prudent action to reduce net land exchanges and accept a slower rate of build starts.
We had another reasonable year for securing planning given that the planning process has not improved and we ended the year with a sound stock position, both in terms of finished stock and work in progress and land.
In overall stock unit terms, we are 2% ahead of the comparable position last year.
Staff, Customer Care and Suppliers On behalf of the Board I would like to thank our staff, once again, for their contribution over the year.
With more difficult markets we have had to review our overhead base Keith Lovelock, Chairman and it is disappointing that since the year end we have initiated a modest redundancy programme.
Despite having to take these actions, I am glad to say the The results that we achieved for the year Board has authorised a Group-wide bonus and profit share were good against a more difficult trading payments for staff.
We also have in place a share matching arrangement for all members of staff who invest under our backdrop.
Share Incentive Plan and we continue to have healthy levels of participation in the Groups SAYE scheme.
The key features of the results are: The Groups staff surveys continue to reflect high levels of Achieved 1,983 unit sales 2,055 a decrease of 3.5%.
employee satisfaction and it is pleasing to see that the great Profit before taxation was 127.4m 147.8m a decrease majority of new appointments are filled by internal staff of 14%.
We continue to enjoy low levels of staff turnover for the industry and, at Senior Management levels, we Basic earnings per share were 87.6p 99.2p a decrease of 12%.
demonstrate very high levels of staff retention.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 14.0p 12.5p which The Group has continued to place great emphasis on its with an interim dividend of 5.4p 4.8p makes a total for the Customer Care programme which is externally monitored, year of 19.4p 17.3p, an increase of 12%.
The findings from our Customer Cash balances at the year end amounted to 38.3m Care reviews highlight a whole range of issues where the 57.2m after a commutation payment of 18.4m on the Group has performed exceptionally well, but it also identifies Groups Head Office and after 5.2m spend on the buyback areas which can be improved.
With the support of our staff of 955,000 Ordinary shares.
and the service provided by our subcontractors, consultants Pre-tax return on capital on the basis of shareholders funds and suppliers, we are always trying to do better.
For many at the year end was 30.0%.
years we have held an annual award scheme for our Over the last 10 years the Group has achieved compound external partners to create a cohesive recognition of the growth in earnings per share of 28%, dividends per share of importance of our shared commitment to Customer Care.
26% and net assets per share of 20%.
Howard Philips became Chief Executive on 1 September 2005 4 Cherwell Court, Kidlington 5 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Chairmans Statement One of the key elements of our appeal to our customers is the importance of on-going management of the communities that we create, and the House Managers who ensure the well-being of the residents in our developments.
I am glad to say that over the years we have built on the very good relationship we have with Peverel, the external management company we appoint to manage our developments.
The Board As I indicated last year, I am delighted that Howard Phillips has taken over as Chief Executive from 1 September 2005.
Howard, aged 45, joined the Board in October 2000 as Operations Director for our Northern Regions and has had 17 years experience with McCarthy & Stone.
I am also very pleased that Derek Field, aged 59, has joined the Board with effect from 1 September 2005 taking over Howards former responsibility for our Northern Regions.
Derek joined McCarthy & Stone in 1996 as Regional Managing Director for the South West and has successfully built up that Region to be the largest volume Region within the Group.
Before that he had 30 years Howard Phillips, Chief Executive experience of the industry with Bovis and Clarke Homes.
I continue to act as Executive Chairman but I will relinquish unfold.
Meantime, we anticipate that margins are likely to my executive role in due course by passing across an ease further as there can be little anticipated movement in increasing number of executive functions to Howard.
selling prices, and land and build costs are coming through to The Board has recognised that my role as Chairman is not cost of sales at higher levels.
directly in accordance with the recommendations of the Overall, therefore, the Board anticipates another testing year Combined Code but it believes that these arrangements will ahead.
facilitate a smooth handover of executive responsibilities and The Group has maintained its strong balance sheet and cash is in the best interests of the Group as a whole.
position and, during the year, repurchased approximately 5 million of Ordinary shares.
The Group intends to make Prospects further purchases of the Companys shares when suitable Clearly the whole housing sector has faced a challenging opportunities arise.
market over the past year and, despite our clear focus on the The key features of our specialist market, where we have a niche area of private retirement housing, we are not immune leading market share, remain attractive.
We serve a growing to market conditions which are not showing any significant elderly home market, where over 60% own their own homes, signs of improvement.
and the proportion of home owners coming through into So, conscious that this harder market would require more retirement is steadily increasing.
The number of older active sales outlets to support volumes, we opened the people living alone continues to rise and the elderly, both in current year with 111 86 sales sites across our Regions.
absolute terms and as a proportion of the population, are Even so, we start the year with forward reservations on 255 also increasing.
units 440, significantly below last years.
In September and In the longer term the Group is well positioned to move October, trading across the Group has remained testing.
The fundamentals of the housing market Whilst the level of enquiries, first time visitors and even remain sound as housing demand is supported by a deficit in second time visitors have held up well, the conversion to housing supply, and we continue to enjoy high levels of reservations has been below our normal experience.
Our employment and low levels of inflation.
prospective purchasers are proving reluctant to commit to the purchase process because in the current climate they are uncertain that they can sell their dependent properties for the amounts that they would wish to and in acceptable timescales.
We believe, therefore, that it is likely volumes in the first half will be lower than in the comparable period, but we are looking to maximise the benefit from our new sales releases in the second half and would hope to improve on the second half Keith Lovelock volumes compared to last year.
Overall, we would not, at this Chairman stage, expect full year volumes to exceed last years.
Actual volumes will clearly depend upon how market conditions 6
