Melrose PLC 62 Annual Report 2011 Auditors report on the consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose PLC Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Melrose 2006 PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the consolidated Income Statement, the consolidated Statement financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are of Comprehensive Income, the consolidated Statement of prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
Cash Flows, the consolidated Balance Sheet, the consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 30.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their We have nothing to report in respect of the following: preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act are not made: or 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might we have not received all the information and explanations we state to the Companys members those matters we are required require for our audit.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the the Directors statement, contained within the Directors report, Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, in relation to going concern: or for the opinions we have formed.
the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Directors remuneration.
of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit Other matter and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements We have reported separately on the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on of Melrose PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply information in the Remuneration report that is described as having with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Nigel Mercer, ACA Senior Statutory Auditor misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and London, UK adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting 7 March 2012 estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
