2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Independent auditors report to the members Business review Company fi financial statements and notes of Micro Focus International plc Management and governance Additional information We have audited the parent company financial statements of Micro Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2011 which In our opinion: comprise the parent company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
2006: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the information given in the directors report for the financial year As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is out on page 36, the directors are responsible for the preparation of consistent with the parent company financial statements.
the parent company financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Matters on which we are required to report by exception an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing opinion: Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of from branches not visited by us: or Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any the parent company financial statements and the part of the other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our with the accounting records and returns: or prior consent in writing.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are Scope of the audit of the financial statements not made: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable we have not received all the information and explanations we assurance that the financial statements are free from material require for our audit.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Other matter parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting Micro Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2011. estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Pauline Campbell Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements for and on behalf of  LLP In our opinion the parent company financial statements: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Reading give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as 22 June 2011 at 30 April 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Micro Focus International plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
