Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc We have audited the Group financial Scope of the audit of the Matters on which we are statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc for financial statements required to report by exception the 52 weeks ended 24 September 2011 An audit involves obtaining evidence about We have nothing to report in respect of which comprise the Group Income Statement, the amounts and disclosures in the financial the following: the Group Statement of Comprehensive statements sufficient to give reasonable Income, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group assurance that the financial statements are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement free from material misstatement, whether required to report to you if, in our opinion: of Changes in Equity and the related notes caused by fraud or error.
The financial reporting framework assessment of: whether the accounting certain disclosures of Directors that has been applied in their preparation is policies are appropriate to the Groups remuneration specified by law are not applicable law and International Financial circumstances and have been consistently made: or Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by applied and adequately disclosed: the we have not received all the information the European Union.
reasonableness of significant accounting and explanations we require for our audit.
estimates made by the Directors: and the This report is made solely to the Companys overall presentation of the financial Under the Listing Rules we are required members, as a body, in accordance with statements.
In addition, we read all the to review: Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act financial and non-financial information 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken in the Annual report to identify material the Directors Statement, set out on so that we might state to the Companys inconsistencies with the audited financial page 17, in relation to going concern: members those matters we are required to statements.
If we become aware of any the part of the Corporate Governance state to them in an auditors report and for apparent material misstatements or Statement relating to the Companys no other purpose.
To the fullest extent inconsistencies we consider the implications compliance with the nine provisions of the permitted by law, we do not accept or for our report.
UK Corporate Governance Code specified assume responsibility to anyone other than for our review: and the Company and the Companys members Opinion on financial statements certain elements of the report to as a body, for our audit work, for this report, In our opinion the Group financial statements: shareholders by the Board on Directors or for the opinions we have formed.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Respective responsibilities Groups affairs as at 24 September 2011 Other matter of Directors and auditor and of its profit for the 52 weeks then We have reported separately on the As explained more fully in the Directors ended: parent company financial statements of Responsibilities Statement, the Directors have been properly prepared in Mitchells & Butlers plc for the 52 weeks are responsible for the preparation of the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the ended 24 September 2011 and on the Group financial statements and for being European Union: and information in the Directors Remuneration satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
have been prepared in accordance with the Report that is described as having Our responsibility is to audit and express an requirements of the Companies Act 2006 been audited.
opinion on the Group financial statements and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
in accordance with applicable law and Stephen Griggs International Standards on Auditing Opinion on other matter prescribed Senior statutory auditor UK and Ireland.
Those standards require by the Companies Act 2006 for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP us to comply with the Auditing Practices In our opinion, the information given in the Chartered Accountants and Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Directors Report for the financial year for Statutory Auditor which the Group financial statements are London, UK prepared is consistent with the Group 21 November 2011 financial statements.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 35
