MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011, QGHSHQGHQW DXGLWRUVUHSRUW WR WKH PHPEHUV RI 0,7, URXS 3 & For the year ended 31 March 2011 We have audited the Group financial statements of MITIE Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2011 which 2006 comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the In our opinion the information given in the Directors report Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the for the financial year for which the financial statements are Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Matters on which we are required to report by exception Flows and the related notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting We have nothing to report in respect of the following: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the by law are not made: or Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken we have not received all the information and so that we might state to the Companys members those explanations we require for our audit.
matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume the Directors statement contained within the Directors responsibility to anyone other than the Company and report: Corporate governance statement in relation to the companys members as a body, for our audit work, going concern: for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the part of the Corporate governance statement Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor relating to the Companys compliance with the nine As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified Statement, the Directors are responsible for the for our review: and preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our certain elements of the report to shareholders by the responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Board on directors remuneration.
Group financial statements in accordance with applicable Other matters law and International Standards on Auditing UK and We have reported separately on the parent company Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the financial statements of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards 31 March 2011 and on the information in the Directors for Auditors.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been Scope of the audit of the financial statements audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are Ian Krieger Senior Statutory Auditor free from material misstatement, whether caused by for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether Bristol, United Kingdom the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups 23 May 2011 circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
