Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Report on the financial statements We have audited the Group annual financial statements of Mondi Limited for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the combined and consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2011, the combined and consolidated income statement, the combined and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the combined and consolidated statement of cash ows and the combined and consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended, the summary of signi cant accounting policies, the explanatory notes 1 to 41, the directors report on pages 28 to 31 and 52 to 55, the audit committee statement on pages 61 to 64, and audited schedules of the report to shareholders by the board on directors remuneration, included on pages 73 to 78.
Directors responsibility for the financial statements The Groups directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these combined and consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Group financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the combined and consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the combined and consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the combined and consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the Groups preparation and presentation of the combined and consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the combined and consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suf cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the Group financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the combined and consolidated financial position of the Mondi Group as at 31 December 2011, and of its combined and consolidated financial performance and its combined and consolidated cash ows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa.
Deloitte & Touche Registered Auditors Per Bronwyn Kilpatrick Partner Sandton 22 February 2012 Building 1, Deloitte Place, The Woodlands Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton, Republic of South Africa National Executive GG Gelink Chief Executive AE Swiegers Chief Operating Of cer GM Pinnock Audit DL Kennedy Risk Advisory & Legal Services NB Kader Tax L Geeringh Consulting L Bam Corporate Finance JK Mazzocco Human Resources CR Beukman Finance TJ Brown Chairman of the Board MJ Comber Deputy Chairman of the Board.
A full list of partners and directors is available on request.
B-BBEE rating: Level 2 contributor in terms of the Accountancy Profession Sector Code Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Mondi Group 83 5 5036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
indd 83 036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
