Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Report on the summary financial statements The accompanying summary financial statements, which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2011 and selected notes are derived from the audited financial statements of Mondi Limited for the year ended 31 December 2011.
We expressed an unmodi ed audit opinion on those financial statements in our report dated 22 February 2012.
Those financial statements, and the summary financial statements, do not re ect the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our report on those financial statements.
The summary financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
Reading the summary financial statements, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial statements of Mondi Limited.
Directors responsibility for the components of the financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation of the summary financial statements in accordance with the framework concepts and the measurement and recognition requirements of IFRSs and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the summary financial statements based on our procedures, which were conducted in accordance with International Standard on Auditing ISA 810, Engagements to Report on Summary Financial Statements.
Opinion In our opinion, the summary financial statements derived from the audited financial statements of Mondi Limited for the year ended 31 December 2011 are consistent, in all material respects, with those financial statements, in accordance with the framework concepts and the measurement and recognition requirements of IFRSs and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa.
Deloitte & Touche Registered Auditors Per Bronwyn Kilpatrick Partner Sandton 22 February 2012 Building 1, Deloitte Place, The Woodlands Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton Republic of South Africa National Executive GG Gelink Chief Executive AE Swiegers Chief Operating Of cer GM Pinnock Audit DL Kennedy Risk Advisory & Legal Services NB Kader Tax L Geeringh Consulting L Bam Corporate Finance JK Mazzocco Human Resources CR Beukman Finance TJ Brown Chairman of the Board MJ Comber Deputy Chairman of the Board.
A full list of partners and directors is available on request.
B-BBEE rating: Level 2 contributor in terms of the Accountancy Profession Sector Code Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Mondi Group 165 5 5036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
indd 165 036 12 Mondi AR Fins 1March12 PRINT.
