Independent auditors report on the consolidated group financial statements We have audited the group financial statements of Mothercare plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2011 which comprise the In our opinion the information given in the directors report for the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, is consistent with the group financial statements.
the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated Matters on which we are required to report by exception cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 30.
The financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. not made: or Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the we have not received all the information and explanations we Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent require for our audit.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the directors statement, contained within the corporate have formed.
governance report, in relation to going concern: the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, Combined Code specified for our review: and the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion directors remuneration.
on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Other matter standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards We have reported separately on the parent company financial Ethical Standards for Auditors.
statements of Mothercare plc for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2011 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is Scope of the audit of the financial statements described as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Nicola Mitchell, FCA assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Senior statutory auditor the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of London the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and 17 May 2011 non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 26 March 2011 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 43
