Independent Auditors Report Group Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the Respective responsibilities of directors Opinion on other matters prescribed by members of N Brown Group plc.
and auditor the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors In our opinion: of N Brown Group plc for the 52 weeks Responsibilities Statement, the directors the part of the Directors Remuneration ended 26 February 2011 which comprise are responsible for the preparation of Report to be audited has been properly Consolidated Income Statement, the financial statements and for being prepared in accordance with the the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Companies Act 2006: and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Our responsibility is to audit and express the information given in the Directors Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive an opinion on the financial statements Report for the financial period for which Income, the Consolidated Statement of in accordance with applicable law and the financial statements are prepared is Changes in Equity, the Reconciliation International Standards on Auditing UK consistent with the financial statements.
of Operating Profit to Net Cash from and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Operating Activities and the related notes comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Matters on which we are required to 1 to 30.
The financial reporting framework Ethical Standards for Auditors.
report by exception that has been applied in the preparation We have nothing to report in respect of the of the group financial statements is Scope of the audit of the financial following matters where the Companies applicable law and International Financial statements Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted An audit involves obtaining evidence our opinion: by the European Union.
The financial about the amounts and disclosures adequate accounting records have not reporting framework that has been applied in the financial statements sufficient been kept by the parent company, or in the preparation of the parent company to give reasonable assurance that the returns adequate for our audit have not financial statements is applicable law and financial statements are free from material been received from branches not visited United Kingdom Accounting Standards misstatement, whether caused by fraud by us: or United Kingdom Generally Accepted or error.
This includes an assessment the parent company financial Accounting Practice.
of: whether the accounting policies are statements and the part of the Directors appropriate to the groups and the parent Remuneration Report to be audited are This report is made solely to the companys circumstances and have been not in agreement with the accounting companys members, as a body, in consistently applied and adequately records and returns: or accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of disclosed: the reasonableness of certain disclosures of directors the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work significant accounting estimates remuneration specified by law are not has been undertaken so that we might made by the directors: and the overall made: or state to the companys members those presentation of the financial statements.
we have not received all the information matters we are required to state to them and explanations we require for our audit.
in an auditors report and for no other Opinion on financial statements purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted In our opinion: by law, we do not accept or assume the financial statements give a true Damian Sanders responsibility to anyone other than the and fair view of the state of the groups Senior Statutory Auditor for company and the companys members as affairs as at 26 February 2011 and of its and on behalf of Deloitte LLP a body, for our audit work, for this report, profit for the 52 weeks then ended: Chartered Accountants and or for the opinions we have formed.
the group financial statements have Statutory Auditor been properly prepared in accordance Manchester, UK with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and 17 May 2011 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 39
