171 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Independent auditors report We have audited the parent company financial statements of New World Resources Plc for the period from 30 March 2011 date of incorporation to 31 December 2011 set out on pages 164 to 170.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 102, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and, the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of New World Resources Plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Jimmy Daboo Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 12 March 2012
