com 115 Independent auditors report to the members of Ocado Group plc we have audited the parent company financial statements Opinion on financial statements of Ocado group plc for the year ended 27 november 2011 in our opinion the parent company financial statements: which comprise the Company balance sheet, the Company statement of cash flows, the Company statement of changes z give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys in equity and the related notes.
the financial reporting affairs as at 27 november 2011 and of its cash flows for framework that has been applied in their preparation is the year then ended: applicable law and international financial reporting standards z have been properly prepared in accordance with ifrss ifrss as adopted by the european union and as applied in as adopted by the european union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies act.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies act: and Respective responsibilities of directors z have been prepared in accordance with the requirements and auditors of the Companies act.
as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on pages 64 and 65, the directors are Opinion on other matters prescribed by the responsible for the preparation of the parent company Companies Act financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a in our opinion: true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express z the part of the directors remuneration report to be an opinion on the parent company financial statements in audited has been properly prepared in accordance with accordance with applicable law and international standards the Companies act: and on auditing uK and ireland.
those standards require us to z the information given in the directors report for the comply with the auditing practices boards ethical standards financial year for which the parent company financial for auditors.
statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
this report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance Matters on which we are required to report with Chapter 3 of part 16 of the Companies act and for no by exception other purpose.
we do not, in giving these opinions, accept or we have nothing to report in respect of the following assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other matters where the Companies act requires us to report to person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it you if, in our opinion: may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
z adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have Scope of the audit of the financial statements not been received from branches not visited by us: or an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts z the parent company financial statements and the part and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to of the directors remuneration report to be audited give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and are free from material misstatement, whether caused by returns: or fraud or error.
this includes an assessment of: whether z certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent by law are not made: or companys circumstances and have been consistently applied z we have not received all the information and and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant explanations we require for our audit.
accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
in addition, we read Other matter all the financial and non-financial information in the annual we have reported separately on the group financial report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited statements of Ocado group plc for the year ended financial statements.
if we become aware of any apparent 27 november 2011. material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Clive Hinds Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  llp Chartered accountants and statutory auditors st albans 21 march 2012 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 independent auditors report Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance
