GOVERNANCE Independent auditor's report to the members ofPerform Group plc We have audited the group financial statements of Perform Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those matters we are required to state to them inan auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors' Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board's APB's Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB's website at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the group's affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Directors' Report for the financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 43 to 47 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: the Directors' statement, set out on page 42 relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors' remuneration.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Perform Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 andonthe information in the Remuneration Committee Report that is described as having been audited.
Mark Henshaw Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 28 February 2012 52 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
