FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company independent auditors' report Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We have audited the parent company financial statements of Perform Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the parent company balance sheet, the parent company statement of accounting policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those matters we are required to state to them inan auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors' Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board's APB's Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB's website at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the company's affairs as at 31 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the information given in the Directors' Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Perform Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Mark Henshaw Senior Statutory Auditor, for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London, United Kingdom 28 February 2012 92 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
