156 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Independent auditors report to the members of the ARM Holdings plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended Matters on which we are required to report by exception 31 December 2011 which comprise the Company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards to you if, in our opinion: United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors have not been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities included in the Directors report, the directors the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are not are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in Other matter accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 31 December 2011. shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
James Southgate Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
London 27 February 2012 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
indd 156 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 157 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Independent auditors report to the members of the ARM Holdings plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended Matters on which we are required to report by exception 31 December 2011 which comprise the Company balance sheet and the related notes.
