Independent auditors report to the members of Polymetal International plc We have audited the Group financial statements the financial statements of Polymetal International plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by European Union: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters, where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Other matters In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company.
We have reviewed the Directors statement, contained within the Directors Report, in relation to going concern as if the Company had been incorporated in the UK and have nothing to report to you in that respect.
Christopher Thomas for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor London, UK 24 April 2012 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 87 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
