Independent auditors report to the members of QinetiQ Group plc We have audited the financial statements of QinetiQ Group plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the for the year ended 31 March 2011 set out on pages 50 to 105.
Companies Act 2006 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the In our opinion: preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law the part of the Directors' remuneration report to be audited and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has Act 2006: and been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial the information given in the Directors' report for the financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards year for which the financial statements are prepared is UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those matters we are required Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
if, in our opinion: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been company's members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, received from branches not visited by us: or or for the opinions we have formed.
the parent company financial statements and the part of Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor the Directors' remuneration report to be audited are not As explained more fully in the Directors' responsibilities statement in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or set out on page 48, the Directors are responsible for the certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration specified by preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied law are not made: or that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, we have not received all the information and explanations and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance we require for our audit.
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board's APB's Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors' statement, set out on page 34, in relation to going concern: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the part of the corporate governance statement on pages A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements 28 to 35 relating to the Company's compliance with the nine is provided on the APB's website at provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our www.
review: and Opinion on financial statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board In our opinion: on Directors' remuneration.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and of the parent company's affairs as at 31 March Mike Maloney 2011 and of the Group's profit for the year then ended: Senior Statutory Auditor the Group financial statements have been properly prepared for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Chartered Accountants the parent company financial statements have been properly 15 Canada Square prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting London Practices: and E14 5GL the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, 27 May 2011 as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49
