Report of the Independent Auditors to the members of Randgold Resources Limited We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Randgold Resources Limited the company which comprise In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and the the Statement of Financial Position of the company as of parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the 31 December 2011 and the Statement of Changes in Equity and groups profit for the year then ended: Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended and Consolidated have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as Statement of Financial Position of the company and its subsidiaries adopted by the European Union: and the group as of 31 December 2011 and the Consolidated have been prepared in accordance with Companies Jersey Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Law 1991.
Changes in Equity and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the year then ended and the related notes.
The financial reporting the IASB framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable As explained in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the group, in addition to complying with its obligation to prepare adopted by the European Union.
consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements comply with Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to IFRS as issued by the IASB.
the companys members those matters we are required to state to Matters on which we are required to report by them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest exception extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report have formed.
to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the financial statements are not in agreement with the Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation accounting records and returns: or of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a we have not received all the information and explanations we true and fair view.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of The directors have complied with the requirements of rules 9.8.
7 the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys and 9.8.
7A of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Authority in preparing its Annual Report.
Governance Code specified for our review.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Scott Knight statements in accordance with applicable law and International Senior statutory auditor Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require BDO LLP us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APB Ethical Chartered Accountants Standards for Auditors.
London 16 March 2012 Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England on the APBs website at www.
and Wales with registered number OC305127.
Scott Knight Senior statutory auditor Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 145
