Not Inde es t pen o th den e fin t Audit ancial st ors Rat ep e o m rt t en o th ts ce m ontie nmb ueders of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements Opinion on Financial Statements Certain elements of the report to Shareholders of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year In our opinion the Group financial statements: by the Board on Directors remuneration.
ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Give a true and fair view of the state of Other Matter Group income statement, the Group statement the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 We have reported separately on the parent of comprehensive income, the Group balance and of its profit and cash flows for the year financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser sheet, the Group statement of changes in then ended: Group plc for the year ended 31 December equity, the Group cash flow statement and 2011 and on the information in the Directors the related notes.
The financial reporting Have been properly prepared in accordance Remuneration Report that is described as framework that has been applied in their with IFRSs as adopted by the European having been audited.
preparation is applicable law and International Union: and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Have been prepared in accordance with the adopted by the European Union.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
for and on behalf of and Auditors Separate Opinion in Relation to IFRSs  LLP As explained more fully in the Statement of as issued by the IASB Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Directors Responsibilities set out on page 28, As explained in note 1 to the Group financial London the Directors are responsible for the preparation statements, the Group in addition to complying 9 March 2012 of the Group financial statements and for being with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs responsibility is to audit and express an opinion as issued by the International Accounting on the Group financial statements in accordance Standards Board IASB.
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards In our opinion the Group financial statements require us to comply with the Auditing Practices comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Opinion on other Matter prescribed This Report, including the opinions, has been by the Companies Act 2006 prepared for and only for the Companys In our opinion the information given in members as a body in accordance with Chapter the Report of the Directors for the financial 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and year for which the Group financial statements for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving are prepared is consistent with the Group these opinions, accept or assume responsibility financial statements.
for any other purpose or to any other person to Matters on which we are required whom this Report is shown or into whose to Report by Exception hands it may come save where expressly agreed We have nothing to report in respect of by our prior consent in writing.
the following: Scope of the Audit of the Financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Statements required to report to you if, in our opinion: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial Certain disclosures of Directors statements sufficient to give reasonable remuneration specified by law are not made: assurance that the financial statements are free or from material misstatement, whether caused by We have not received all the information fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: and explanations we require for our audit.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been Under the Listing Rules we are required consistently applied and adequately disclosed: to review: the reasonableness of significant accounting The Directors statement, set out on page estimates made by the Directors: and the 28, in relation to going concern: overall presentation of the financial statements.
The part of the Corporate Governance In addition, we read all the financial and Statement relating to the Companys non-financial information in the Annual Report compliance with the nine provisions of the to identify material inconsistencies with the UK Corporate Governance Code specified audited financial statements.
If we become for our review: and aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our Report.
