Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of The Opinion on other matter prescribed Restaurant Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2012 by the Companies Act 2006 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the In our opinion the information given in the report of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Directors for the financial year for which the Group financial consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statements are prepared is consistent with the Group balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement and the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and Matters on which we are required International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as to report by exception adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the to you if, in our opinion: Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken ff certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified so that we might state to the Companys members those by law are not made: or matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report ff we have not received all the information and explanations and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by we require for our audit.
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we ff the Directors statement, contained within the report have formed.
of the Directors, in relation to going concern: ff the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of our review: and the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that ff certain elements of the report to shareholders by the they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and Board on Directors remuneration.
express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards Other matter on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to We have reported separately on the parent company financial comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards statements of The Restaurant Group plc for the 52 week for Auditors.
period ended 1 January 2012 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having Scope of the audit of the financial statements been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Timothy Steel Senior statutory auditor reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the London, United Kingdom accounting policies are appropriate to the groups 29 February 2012 circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: ff give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 1 January 2012 and of its profit for the 52 week period then ended: ff have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and ff have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
38 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011
