154 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc We have audited the company financial statements of SABMiller plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the company Companies Act 2006 balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting In our opinion: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom the part of the remuneration report to be audited has been properly Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the directors report for the financial year for Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors which the company financial statements are prepared is consistent As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, with the company financial statements.
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and Matters on which we are required to report by exception fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, Standards for Auditors.
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company financial statements and the part of the remuneration the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do records and returns: or not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or not made: or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our we have not received all the information and explanations we prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable of SABMiller plc for the year ended 31 March 2011. assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an John Baker Senior Statutory Auditor assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the for and on behalf of  LLP companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting London estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non- 3 June 2011 financial information in the SABMiller plc Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for ourreport.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
