Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 77 Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the SABMiller plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise Companies Act 2006 the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement In our opinion the information given in the directors report for the of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law Matters on which we are required to report by exception and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors if, inour opinion: As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and not made: or fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on we have not received all the information and explanations we the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable require for our audit.
law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, as set out This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for onpage 76: the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of the part of the corporate governance report relating to the Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Combined Code specified for our review: and other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or certain elements of the remuneration report.
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements of SABMiller plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 and on the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and information in the remuneration report that is described as having disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable been audited.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an John Baker Senior Statutory Auditor assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to for and on behalf of  LLP the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting London estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non- 3 June 2011 financial information in the SABMiller plc Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31March 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
