Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of The Sage Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2011 which comprise the Companies Act 2006 Company balance sheet, Company accounting policies and the related In our opinion: notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their The part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The information given in the Directors report for the financial year Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors for which the parent Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 56, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Matters on which we are required to report by exception parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: opinion on the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Ethical Standards for Auditors.
from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only The parent Company financial statements and the part of the for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We accounting records and returns: or do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or not made: or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior We have not received all the information and explanations we require consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures We have reported separately on the Group financial statements in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the of The Sage Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2011. financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the Charles Bowman Senior Statutory Auditor financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify for and on behalf of  LLP material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies Newcastle upon Tyne we consider the implications for our report.
30 November 2011 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2011: Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 115
