Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS Scope of the audit of the financial statements OF SDL PLC A description of the scope of an audit of financial We have audited the financial statements of SDL plc statements is provided on the APBs web-site at www.
for the year ended 31 December 2011 set out on pages org.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial Opinion on financial statements statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The In our opinion: financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK the state of the groups and of the parent companys Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: This report is made solely to the companys members, the group financial statements have been properly as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken the parent company financial statements have been so that we might state to the companys members properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally those matters we are required to state to them in an Accepted Accounting Practice: auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest the financial statements have been prepared in extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume accordance with the requirements of the Companies responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 92, the directors are responsible the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be for the preparation of the financial statements and for audited has been properly prepared in accordance being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our with the Companies Act 2006: responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the the information given in the Directors Report for the financial statements in accordance with applicable law financial year for which the financial statements are and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
94 94 STATUTORY INFORMATION Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 59, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 64 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
P Gresham Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 4 Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 16 March 2012 95 95 S SD DL A L An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 11 1
