12 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Severn Trent Water Performance continued Our sewage treatment works failing consent Environment limit was 1.69% 2010: 1.80%.
We are Our customers should have confidence that working to improve this as part of our we will take away waste water and treat it to Environmental Improvement plan which we the highest environmental standards before put in place this year.
Our plan, developed returning it to our regions rivers.
We also alongside Ofwat, supports our aim of raising strive to run our operations in a sustainable the standards of our watercourses to benefit way and reduce our carbon footprint.
local communities and those who use our During the year we made good progress rivers for recreation.
in protecting our environment and dealing One of our challenges is striking a balance with waste water, whilst continuing to lead between river water quality and carbon the industry in the production of renewable production.
We invest in plant to eliminate energy.
However, severe winter weather nitrates and pesticides in order to improve impacted our leakage performance in Case study water quality in our rivers and comply with what was otherwise a year of improved Improving river water the Water Framework Directive WFD.
quality reduce the number of new treatment works Dealing with waste water we need to build, we work in partnership A 9 million project to During the past 12 months we have had a with farmers and industries to encourage upgrade our sewerage strong focus on continuous improvement them to discharge less efuent and waste network and improve the which has resulted in us halving the into watercourses through the use of water quality of the River number of serious pollution incidents from Catchment Management Investigations Tame unearthed several eight to four in the year, with no category CMI.
Severn Trent is currently engaged hurdles at the feasibility study 1 pollutions.
We have been working on in 47 CMIs, more than any other water stage.
These included improved processes for identifying, company.
We have also developed a contaminated ground, buried monitoring and reporting pollution and our joint initiative with the Environment concrete structures, the self reporting has increased by 11%.
We are Agency to balance carbon emissions presence of great crested confident that this is helping us to focus on and river ecology.
newts and a complex the right things and whilst this has led to an geology with a past history of overall increase from 322 to 378 reported deep coal mining and high pollution incidents, we are confident that this groundwater levels.
We is due to raising our standards of working worked with the Environment and improving our understanding, such Agency and the local that in the longer term we will deliver authority to secure an better overall performance.
agreement to re-use all An 8.2 million investment to resolve excavated material on site, pollution from our sewers overowing in delivering a huge reduction in rivers and streams will lead to a further the projects carbon footprint.
significant improvement in river quality Collaborating with our in the region.
contractor also enabled us to introduce several innovations, such as specialist covers to the tank, and control of groundwater.
Jobs resolved first time Net energy use gigawatt hours GWh 97.5% 2011 96.5% 2010 706 2011 714 2010 Leakage megalitres per day Ml d Pollution incidents cat 1, 2 and 3 497 2011 4972010 378 2011 322 2010 For more information on KPIs see page 123 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 Protecting the biodiversity of our region Reducing our carbon footprint The scale and scope of our operations puts In 2010 11 we met our target of producing us in a unique position to protect and often 22% of Severn Trent Waters energy enhance the biodiversity of our region, requirements from renewables, reinforcing particularly its aquatic ecosystem.
There are our leading position in the production of over 800 Sites of Special scientific Interest renewable electricity from sewage.
SSSI in our region, a number of which are The group also delivered the UKs first nominated as sites of European importance commercial scale energy crop power for the conservation and protection of plant, using maize and wheat to generate endangered species.
We own or partly 15 gigawatt hours GWh of electricity manage 37 SSSIs and work in partnership per annum, enough to power 4,500 homes.
with Natural England, Countryside Council The group has recently received permission for Wales, our tenants and other partners to to build its first wind turbine which will safeguard the special interest of these sites.
help us achieve the goal of 30% of Severn Case study Trent Waters power requirements being Saving water and energy Reducing leakage generated from our own renewables We experienced the coldest December Thanks to the efforts of our by 2014 15. in 100 years with significant snowfall and a customers we continue to prolonged freeze across our region.
The As well as reducing our carbon impact, lead the industry in water graph below shows how leakage increased renewables will also offer protection against efficiency.
Nottingham couple sharply compared to previous years.
This rising energy prices, reducing our exposure Gary and Clare Blissett are a caused severe operational difficulties but we in volatile energy markets and saving good example: by making a kept customers on supply throughout the around 28 million over the next five years.
few practical changes they winter.
However, two freezes followed by virtually halved their water In addition to generating our own energy, two thaws caused leakage to rise to consumption and energy we also set targets and monitor energy use unprecedented levels.
We were able to bills in a year.
As Gary across every area of our business.
Our maintain leakage at last years levels of explains, Its about small people take every opportunity to reduce 497 megalitres per day Ml d. However, behavioural changes such energy from turning off lights to reducing despite deploying additional resources we as turning off the tap when unnecessary journeys.
We continue to were unable to achieve our leakage target brushing our teeth, only invest in trackers and software that routes of 483 Ml d as a direct result of the weather.
putting a full load into the vehicles to make job scheduling more We have reduced leakage signicantly washing machine and efficient, leading to reduced mileage and since the winter and we have plans in dishwasher and taking an improvement in productivity.
place to achieve our targets in 2011 12. showers instead of baths.
Our long term trend on leakage is good They also ordered free water and we are confident of hitting our targets saving devices, such as a in future years.
ShowerSave device, from Severn Trent.
Our work Customers also have a part to play and with customers, energy our water conservation and efficiency companies and schools programme has resulted in one of the helps us have the lowest per lowest per capita water usages in the UK.
capita consumption of water Severn Trent Water customers use an in the UK.
average of 126 litres per day, compared to the national average of 146 litres.
Winter Peaks 2007 08 to 2010 11 15 GWh Weekly Leakage April 2007 to March 2011 of electricity from 37,000 tonnes of converted maize sludge 800 750 9% 650 increase in our production of renewable energy 550 450 126 litres 350 Customers used on average just 126 litres of water per day 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Megalitres per day Ml d Business review 14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Severn Trent Water Performance continued People Over the past 12 months we have taken significant steps to transform the way we work, from the environment our people work in to the processes and technologies we use.
This is a vital part of our strategy to improve our performance and operational efficiency, and the service we provide to our customers.
Any change on this scale is bound to be challenging but overall our people are embracing the new working arrangements, and once again showed exceptional commitment over a difficult winter period.
A new way of working In October we moved to the Severn Trent Centre in Coventry.
One of the most energy efficient buildings in Europe, it reects our ethos of openness, team working, high standards and low charges.
We also transformed our technology infrastructure.
Virtual desktops allow our employees to access their PCs and business systems Severn Trent Centre in Coventry from any desk at a large proportion of our sites.
It also allows us to form teams Improving our technology and Throughout our business, our teams are business processes improving their performance by changing dynamically to resolve specic problems.
Throughout the year we continued to invest the way they work using our Safer Better For example, during the extreme cold strategically in new technology completing Faster approach to continuous weather the technology allowed our people to rapidly form work groups and share the implementation of our new SAP improvement.
With more than two thirds of workforce management systems, refreshing the organisation now upskilled in the tools information.
We are now using these our desktop technology, providing high and techniques, managers and their teams working arrangements as a template to bandwidth telecoms infrastructure and new are equipped to improve their processes to modernise the rest of our sites through our ongoing workplace improvement plan.
The adoption of new, lower deliver higher standards of performance to running cost technology has increased our customers in the most cost effective reliability and performance at a lower ways they can.
The approach is now being operating cost.
introduced into our business support areas.
The success of this programme is due to the The new SAP workforce scheduling involvement and engagement of our people technology and processes are starting to in making the improvements for themselves make our operational teams more taking ownership of their performance, productive and our investment in SAPs learning new tools and techniques, asset management systems is contributing and working more collaboratively with to improved capital programme efficiencies.
colleagues in different functions to Our new systems and technology are solve problems.
fundamentally changing the way we work and so we have invested heavily in training our people to equip them with the right skills to exploit the new technology and systems.
Lost time incidents per 100,000 hours worked 0.37 2011 0.36 2010 For more information on KPIs see page 123 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Engaging our people We have introduced better health A concept known as Safety Although our people went through surveillance processes as part of improving considerable changes during the year, our employees wellbeing but recognise that Improvement Teams, set up those changes led to upskilling, simplied while we have made positive progress, we by our Waste Water Services processes, and a better workplace and have more to do in this area.
Our employee engagement Team to increase employee Recruitment and training survey revealed that 74% of employees engagement around health Having the right people with the right skills is across the organisation remain positively more important than ever.
We are working and safety, won a RoSPA engaged.
Positively engaged means to make sure we have a more diverse employees are committed to the Silver Award in 2010. workforce, with a particular focus on organisation and have the desire to go attracting more female candidates for above and beyond the call of duty to achieve operational and senior roles.
People support the need for the continued to provide regular diversity-related improvements and changes we are making training and communications to managers, 86% and think their colleagues give them employees and new joiners and worked to the support they need to do their job 87%.
embed the importance of diversity within our A high percentage 88% are also happy to business.
With the help of ACAS we have go the extra mile when required.
designed and are implementing diversity However, only 33% of employees felt that training events that will eventually train 500 changes which affected their job had been Water Distribution employees.
In response to this we To develop succession plans, we identify introduced a module on change and mentor future leaders through our management to our line manager talent review process which assessed development programme.
893 managers and potential leaders this We share the results of the employee year.
Current managers have access to engagement survey with our teams and our Line Manager Journey which includes trades union partners in order to nd more a suite of training modules such as productive and co-operative ways to work change management and coaching for together in the future.
We continue to develop the training programme package and add A safe and healthy workforce new modules when a need is identied.
During the year our health and safety performance, despite remaining at upper quartile and leading the sector, did not improve.
This is the first time in a number of years that we have not seen a year on year improvement and we are seeking to address the identifying causes to enable the business to attain further progress in this important performance measure.
Importantly, we have a strong culture of people taking personal responsibility for their own health and safety, and that of others.
This year 95% of our workforce agreed that health and safety is taken seriously, and 87% said we give them the right support to do their job safely.
Employee motivation 74% 2011 74% 2010 For more information on KPIs see page 123 Business review
