Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 59 Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc We have audited the group financial statements of Severn Trent Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the Act 2006 consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes the financial year for which the group financial statements are in equity, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
flow statement, and the related notes 1 to 40.
The financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is We have nothing to report in respect of the following: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might law are not made: or state to the companys members those matters we are required we have not received all the information and explanations to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the directors statement, contained within the Directors report, or for the opinions we have formed.
report, in relation to going concern: the part of the Chairmans letter relating to the companys Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement, Combined Code specified for our review: and the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true on directors remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with Other matters applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and We have reported separately on the parent company financial Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing statements of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 and on the information in the Remuneration Committee Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from Carl D Hughes Senior statutory auditor material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been London, UK 26 May 2011 consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
