8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 74 74 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet Matters on which we are required to report by exception of Shire plc and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and the related We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where consolidated statements of income, equity, comprehensive income the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2011 and the related in our opinion: Notes 1 to 32 together, the Financial Statements.
These Financial proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns Statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also visited by us: or audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or We have reported separately on the parent company financial we have not received all the information and explanations we require statements of Shire plc for the year ended December 31, 2011. for our audit.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body Matters on which we are required to report by the Listing Rules in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We have nothing to report in respect of our duty under the Listing Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Rules to review: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extentthe Directors statement contained within the Financial Statements permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone in relation to going concern: other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, thecertain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration report and the Financial Statements are set Directors remuneration.
out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements and the Other matters part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance In our opinion: with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance Standards on Auditing United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.
Those with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that would have standards require us to comply with the United Kingdom Auditing applied were the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom: Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial year Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures the Financial Statements: and in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether Companies Act 2006 that would have applied were the Company the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances incorporated in the United Kingdom.
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Paul Franek Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditors inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
London, United Kingdom February 23, 2011 Opinion on the Financial Statements In our opinion the Financial Statements: present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Shire plc and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
