Directors report Independent auditors report 59 Independent auditors report to the members of Associated British Foods plc We have audited the financial statements of Associated British Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Foods plc for the 52 week period ended 17 September 2011 set out Act 2006 on pages 60 to 112.
The financial reporting framework that has been In our opinion: applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements t the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework and that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK t the information given in the Directors report for the financial year Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We have nothing to report in respect of thefollowing: Companys members those matters we are required to state to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest in our opinion: extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, t adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received have formed.
from branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors t the parent company financial statements and the part of the As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the set out on page 58, the directors are responsible for the preparation accounting records and returns: or of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a t certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an are not made: or opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those t we have not received all the information and explanations we standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards require for our audit: or APBs Ethical Standards forAuditors.
t a Corporate governance statement has not been prepared by Scope of the audit of the financial statements theCompany.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is Under the Listing Rules we are required toreview: provided on the APBs website at www.
t the Directors statement, set out on page 40, in relation to going concern: and Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: t the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK t the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
the groups and of the Companys affairs as at 17 September 2011 and of the groups profit for the period then ended: t the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared Stephen Oxley in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants t the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in Statutory Auditor accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and 15 Canada Square t the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with London the requirements of the Companies Act2006: and, as regards the E14 5GL consolidated financial statements, Article4 of the IAS Regulation.
8 November 2011 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011
