Accounts and other information Independent auditors US Reports Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Smith & Nephew plc We have audited the accompanying Group balance sheets of Smith & Nephew plc as of 31 December 2011 and 2010, and the related Group income statements, Group statements of comprehensive income, Group cash ow statements and Group statements of changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2011.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall account presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Smith & Nephew plc at 31 December 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and cash ows for each of the three years in theperiod ended 31 December 2011, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, Smith & Nephew plcs internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated 22 February 2012 expressed an unqualied opinion thereon.
Ernst & Young LLP London, England 22 February 2012 82 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Smith & Nephew plc We have audited Smith & Nephew plcs internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission the COSO criteria.
Smith & Nephew plcs management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk thata material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for ouropinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, Smith & Nephew plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2011, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the Group balance sheets of Smith & Nephew plc as of 31 December 2011 and 2010, and the related Group income statements, Group statements of comprehensive income, Group cash ow statements and Group statements of changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2011 and our report dated 22 February 2012 expressed an unqualied opinion thereon.
Ernst & Young LLP London, England 22 February 2012 83 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
