spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Independent auditors report to the members of Spirent Communications plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Spirent have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which Companies Act 2006. comprise the parent Company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 19.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting In our opinion: Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the part of the Report on directors remuneration to be audited This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
2006: and Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the information given in the Report of the directors for the financial Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent with the parent Company financial statements.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Matters on which we are required to report by exception our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent set out on page 42, the directors are responsible for the preparation Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been of the parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied received from branches not visited by us: or that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and the parent Company financial statements and the part of the express an opinion on the parent Company financial statements in Report on directors remuneration to be audited are not in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the audit of the financial statements require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Other matters assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Spirent Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2011. assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied Karl Havers Senior Statutory Auditor and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall London presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the 1 March 2012 financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify Notes material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website is the become aware of any apparent material misstatements or responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and 102
