overview business review governance financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Spirent Communications plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Spirent have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which by the European Union: and comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement and the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 32.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their In our opinion the information given in the Report of the directors for preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting the financial year for which the Group financial statements are Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent in our opinion: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 42, the directors are responsible for the preparation Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an the directors statement, set out on page 41, in relation to going opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with concern: applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Scope of the audit of the financial statements directors remuneration.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Other matter assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the parent Company financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an statements of Spirent Communications plc for the year ended assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 31 December 2011 and on the information in the Report of directors the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and remuneration that is described as having been audited.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Karl Havers Senior Statutory Auditor financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material London inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become 1 March 2012 aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we Notes consider the implications for our report.
1 The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve Opinion on financial statements consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility In our opinion the Group financial statements: for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: 55
