78189 STC Back FINAL 78189 StCchV13 BACK 05 07 2011 11:46 Page 40 Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach Group plc Company No.
SC100764 We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Stagecoach Group Opinion on other matters prescribed by the plc for the year ended 30 April 2011 which comprise the Consolidated income Companies Act 2006 statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the In our opinion: Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes.
The financial the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable which the consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by with the consolidated financial statements: and the European Union.
the information given in the Corporate governance report set out on pages 24 to 28 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial Respective responsibilities of directors and statements.
auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the Matters on which we are required to report by financial statements set out on page 21, the Directors are responsible for the exception preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied We have nothing to report in respect of the following: that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
opinion: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not Ethical Standards for Auditors.
made: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the our audit: or Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come company.
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 23, in relation to going concern: Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the companys the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by specified for our review: and fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been remuneration.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial Other matter and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material We have reported separately on page 102 on the parent company financial inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of statements of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2011 and on any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 April 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Michael Timar Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
29 June 2011 page 40 | Stagecoach Group plc
