Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Stobart Group Limited We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Stobart Group Opinion on Financial Statements Limited for the year ended 28 February 2011 which comprise the In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial at 28 February 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cashflow Statement and the related Notes 1 to 29.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their adopted by the European Union: and preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Have been properly prepared in accordance with the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Matters on which we are required to report by exception Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we We have nothing to report in respect of the following: might state to the companys members those matters we are Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other 48 report to you if, in our opinion: purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Proper accounting records have not been kept by the Group: the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this The Groups accounts are not in agreement with the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
accounting records: or We have not received all the information and explanations we Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the set out on page 38, the Directors are responsible for the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Groups preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Code specified for our review.
audit and express an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Other Matter Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Auditors.
Statements of Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 28 February 2011.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Stuart Watson disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Manchester assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material 23 May 2011 misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
