Company financial statements Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 90 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF YULE CATTO & CO PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which In our opinion the parent company financial statements: comprise the parent company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 16.
The financial reporting framework that has been g ive a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom as at 31 December 2011: Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted h ave been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Practice.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and h ave been prepared in accordance with the requirements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, of the Companies Act 2006. in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Opinion on other matters prescribed state to the Companys members those matters we are required by the Companies Act 2006 to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
In our opinion: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys t he part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies opinions we have formed.
Act 2006: and t he information given in the Directors Report for the financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, with the parent company financial statements.
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they Matters on which we are required to report by exception give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters an opinion on the parent company financial statements in where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, accordance with applicable law and International Standards on in our opinion: Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
a dequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Scope of the audit of the financial statements from branches not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and t he parent company financial statements and the part of the disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in assurance that the financial statements are free from material agreement with the accounting records and returns: or misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes c ertain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate are not made: or to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently w e have not received all the information and explanations applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant we require for our audit.
accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read Other matter all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report We have reported separately on the group financial statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2011. statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications Robert Knight Senior statutory auditor for our report.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Cambridge, United Kingdom 14 March 2012
