Group financial statements Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 47 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF YULE CATTO & CO PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Yule Catto & Co Opinion on financial statements plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the In our opinion the Group financial statements: Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes g ive a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated at 31 December 2011 and of its loss for the year then ended: Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 36.
The financial h ave been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation adopted by the European Union: and is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards h ave been prepared in accordance with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Opinion on other matter prescribed in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act by the Companies Act 2006 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the to the Companys members those matters we are required to state financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest is consistent with the Group financial statements.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Matters on which we are required to report by exception as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions We have nothing to report in respect of the following: we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group c ertain disclosures of directors remuneration specified financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true by law are not made: or and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion w e have not received all the information and explanations on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable we require for our audit.
law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
t he directors statement, contained within the Directors Report, Scope of the audit of the financial statements in relation to going concern: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and t he part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK assurance that the financial statements are free from material Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an c ertain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to on directors remuneration.
the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Other matter estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of We have reported separately on the parent company financial the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and statements of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December non-financial information in the annual report to identify material 2011 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become that is described as having been audited.
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Robert Knight Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Cambridge, United Kingdom 14 March 2012
