Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 43 Independent auditors report to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of TalkTalk Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Telecom Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2011 which In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated for the financial year for which the Group financial statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement statements are prepared is consistent with the Group of changes in equity, the Consolidated balance sheet, the financial statements.
Consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Matters on which we are required to report by exception preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report This report is made solely to the Companys members, to you if, in our opinion: as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so by law are not made: or that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for we have not received all the information and explanations we no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we require for our audit.
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Directors statement, contained within the financial statements, in relation to going concern: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit certain elements of the report to Shareholders by the and express an opinion on the Group financial statements Board on Directors remuneration.
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Other matter comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards We have reported separately on the Company financial for Auditors.
statements of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC for the period ended 31 March 2011 and on the information in the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Directors Remuneration Report that is described as An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts having been audited.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
John Murphy Senior Statutory Auditor This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the London, United Kingdom reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 18 May 2011 the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
