86 Independent Auditors report to the Directors of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC for the period ended In our opinion: 31 March 2011 which comprise the Company balance sheet, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the Company reconciliation of movements in Shareholders audited has been properly prepared in accordance funds and the related notes 1 to 9.
The financial reporting with the Companies Act 2006: and framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards the information given in the Directors Report for the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company This report is made solely to the Companys members, financial statements.
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Matters on which we are required to report by exception that we might state to the Companys members those matters We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do if, in our opinion: not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our adequate accounting records have not been kept by the audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor the Parent Company financial statements and the part of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company by law are not made: or financial statements in accordance with applicable law and we have not received all the information and explanations International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those we require for our audit.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters We have reported separately on the Group financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC for the year.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free John Murphy Senior Statutory Auditor from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and London, United Kingdom have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: 18 May 2011 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
