FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Tesco PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 for the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011 which comprise the Parent In our opinion: Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Accepted Accounting Practice.
and the information given in the Report of the Directors for the 52 weeks Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors ended 26 February 2011 for which the Parent Company financial As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company set out on page 92, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements.
the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Matters on which we are required to report by exception an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for from branches not visited by us: or the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into accounting records and returns: or whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not consent in writing.
made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures for our audit.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether Other matter caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances Tesco PLC for the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011. and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Richard Winter Senior Statutory Auditor directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Opinion on financial statements London In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: 6 May 2011 give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 26February 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
156 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
