Overview Business review Governance Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Tesco PLC for the Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 52weeks ended 26 February 2011 which comprise the Group Income In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011 for which the Group financial Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law Matters on which we are required to report by exception and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 92, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a not made: or true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on we have not received all the information and explanations we require the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and for our audit.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Standards for Auditors.
the Directors statement, set out on page 45, in relation to going This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for concern: the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Combined Code specified for our review: and into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors renumeration.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Other matter in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether statements of Tesco PLC for the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011 caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and described as having been audited.
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Richard Winter Senior Statutory Auditor Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Opinion on financial statements London In our opinion the Group financial statements: 6 May 2011 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 26February 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the 52 weeks then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 93
