FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the members of Tullow Oil plc 5 We have audited the Group financial statements of Tullow Oil plc Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Group As explained in the accounting policies to the Group financial income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal income and expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, statement of changes in equity, the Group cash flow statement, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International the accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 33.
The Accounting Standards Board IASB.
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with preparation is applicable law and International Financial IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Act 2006 Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for that we might state to the Companys members those matters the financial year for which the Group financial statements are we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Matters on which we are required to report by exception the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our We have nothing to report in respect of the following: audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation law are not made: or of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that We have not received all the information and explanations they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and we require for our audit.
express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to The Directors statement contained within the Directors comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards report in relation to going concern: for Auditors.
The part of the Corporate governance statement relating to Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give and reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Board on Directors remuneration.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and Other matter have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the We have reported separately on the parent company financial reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial 2011 and on the information in the Directors remuneration statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonreport that is described as having been audited.
financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements Matthew Donaldson Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the Group financial statements: for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year London, UK then ended: 13 March 2012 Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
