Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc We have audited the Group financial statements of UBM plc for the year ended Opinion on other matters 31December 2011 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with of financial position, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the theGroup financial statements.
Consolidated statement of cashflows and the related Notes 1 to 35.
The financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the IASB We have nothing to report in respect of the following: International Accounting Standards Board.
Where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance inouropinion: with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and our engagement proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate letter dated 28 February 2011.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we forour audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records tothem in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent andreturns: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other we have not received all the information and explanations we require for thanthe company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, ouraudit.
forthis report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 72 compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements specified for our review.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Where the Company has also instructed us to review: audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the directors statement in relation to Going Concern: and Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on directors Standards for Auditors.
In addition, the Company has also instructed us to: Other matters report to you our opinion on whether the information given in the Directors We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are UBM plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the information in prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements: theDirectors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
review the directors statement in relation to Going Concern as set out on page 40, which for a premium listed incorporated company is specified for review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority: and Les Clifford review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, directors remuneration, which for a premium listed UK incorporated London company are specified for review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 28 February 2012 ServicesAuthority.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial Notes: statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
The maintenance and integrity of the UBM plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred tothefinancial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
weread all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report andAccounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB:and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 71
