Financial statements AUDITORS REPORT NETHERLANDS Independent auditors report We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
To: the General Meeting of Shareholders of Unilever N. V. Opinion with respect to the consolidated financial statements Report on the consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial and fair view of the financial position of Unilever Group as at statements 2011 as set out on pages 64 to 110 which are part of 31December 2011, and of its result and its cash flows for the year the Annual Report and Accounts 2011 of the Unilever Group for the then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting year ended 31 December 2011, which comprise the consolidated Standards as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive International Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book income, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
balance sheet, consolidated cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, comprising a summary of Separate report on company accounts significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
We have reported separately on the company accounts of Unilever N. V. for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Directors responsibility The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair Report on other legal and regulatory requirements presentation of these consolidated financial statements in Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2: 393 sub 5 at accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as eand f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International as a result of our examination whether the Report of the Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Directors, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil information as required under Section 2: 392 sub 1 at b-h has Code.
Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for such been annexed.
Further we report that the Report of the Directors, internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the consolidated preparation of the consolidated financial statements that are free financial statements as required by Section 2: 391 sub 4 of the from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit Amsterdam, 28 February 2012 in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on  Accountants N. V. Auditing.
This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance R A J Swaak RA about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the companys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
62 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial statements AUDITORS REPORT UNITED KINGDOM Independent auditors report to the members Opinion on financial statements of Unilever PLC In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at We have audited the group financial statements of Unilever Group 31 December 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the then ended: consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in adopted by the European Union: and equity, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of statement, and the related notes on pages 64 to 110.
The financial the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
As explained in note 1 to the group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
responsibilities set out on page 61, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to as issued by the IASB.
audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply In our opinion, the information given in the Directors Report set with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for out on pages 121 and 122 for the financial year for which the group Auditors.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance Matters on which we are required to report by exception with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no We have nothing to report in respect of the following: other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other in our opinion: person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the audit of the financial statements require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are the Directors statement, set out on page 61, in relation to going free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or concern: error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have parent companys compliance with the nine provisions of the been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors: and the overall presentation of the group financial Directors remuneration.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2011 to identify Other matters material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If We have reported separately on the parent company financial we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or statements of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
John Baker Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 28 February 2012 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 63
