Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 84 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Vedanta Resources plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Opinion on Financial Statements Vedanta Resources plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 In our opinion the Group financial statements: which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the as at 31 March 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity adopted by the European Union: and and the related Notes 1 to 40.
The financial reporting have been prepared in accordance with the requirements framework that has been applied in their preparation is of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IAS Regulation.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the Companies This report is made solely to the Companys members, as Act 2006 a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Matters on Which we are Required to Report by Exception no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do We have nothing to report in respect of the following: not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor law are not made: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities we have not received all the information and explanations Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation we require for our audit.
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in the Directors statement, contained within the Directors accordance with applicable law and International Standards Report in relation to going concern: and on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the for Auditors.
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements on Directors remuneration.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Other Matter reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free We have reported separately on the parent company financial from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
statements of Vedanta Resources plc for the year ended This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 31 March 2011 and on the information in the Directors policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Andrew Kelly Senior statutory auditor the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonChartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor financial information in the Annual Report to identify material London, United Kingdom inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we 4 May 2011 become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
