Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 148 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Vedanta Resources plc We have audited the financial statements of Vedanta Opinion on Financial Statements Resources plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which In our opinion the parent company financial statements: comprise the Company balance sheet and the related Notes give a true and fair view of the parent Companys affairs 41 to 53.
The financial reporting framework that has been as at 31 March 2011: applied in their preparation is applicable law and United have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Act 2006 might state to the Companys members those matters we In our opinion: are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Companies Act 2006: and not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the information given in the Directors Report for the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our financial year for which the financial statements are audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Matters on Which we are Required to Report by Exception Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters the parent Company financial statements for being satisfied where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit in our opinion: and express an opinion on the parent company financial adequate accounting records have not been kept by the statements in accordance with applicable law and International parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards not been received from branches not visited by us: or require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs the parent Company financial statements and the part of Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts law are not made: or and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to we have not received all the information and explanations give reasonable assurance that the financial statements we require for our audit.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether Other Matter the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent We have reported separately on the Group financial statements Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied of Vedanta Resources plc for the year ended 31 March 2011. and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Andrew Kelly Senior Statutory Auditor presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the financial and non-financial information in the annual report Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial London, United Kingdom statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
