71 Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of The Weir Opinion on other matter prescribed by the 2006 Act Group PLC In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are We have audited the Group financial statements of The Weir prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Matters on which we are required to report by exception Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 33.
Under the 2006 Act we are required to report to you if, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their in our opinion: preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
by law are not made: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a we have not received all the information and explanations body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies we require for our audit.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no the directors statement, set out on page 43, in relation to other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not going concern: and accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Respective responsibilities of directors & auditor As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board set out on page 43, the directors are responsible for the on directors remuneration.
preparation of the Group financial statements and for being Other matter satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to We have reported separately on the Company financial statements audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks to 30 December 2011 accordance with applicable law and International Standards on and on the information in the Remuneration Report that is Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply described as having been audited.
with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Hywel Ball Senior statutory auditor reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Glasgow This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies 29 February 2012 are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 December 2011 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 2006 Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
