124 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of The Weir Opinion on other matter prescribed by the 2006 Act Group PLC In our opinion: We have audited the Company financial statements of The Weir the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 which properly prepared in accordance with the 2006 Act: and comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes the information given in the Directors report for the financial 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied year for which the financial statements are prepared is in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom consistent with the Company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
Our audit work has been undertaken where the 2006 Act requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: so that we might state to the Companys members those matters adequate accounting records have not been kept by the we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we received from branches not visited by us: or do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit the Company financial statements and the part of the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Respective responsibilities of directors & auditor As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by set out on page 43, the directors are responsible for the law are not made: or preparation of the Company financial statements and for being we have not received all the information and explanations satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to we require for our audit.
audit and express an opinion on the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Other matter Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from Hywel Ball Senior statutory auditor material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are Glasgow appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been 29 February 2012 consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK GAAP: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 2006 Act.
