1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on financial statements WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2011 which In our opinion the parent company financial statements: comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related give a true and fair view of the state of the parent Notes 1 to 9.
The financial reporting framework that has companys affairs as at 31 August 2011: been applied in their preparation is applicable law and have been properly prepared in accordance with United United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements This report is made solely to the Companys members, of the Companies Act 2006. as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies so that we might state to the Companys members those Act 2006 matters we are required to state to them in an auditors In our opinion: report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility audited has been properly prepared in accordance with to anyone other than the Company and the Companys the Companies Act 2006: and members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, the information given in the Directors report for the or for the opinions we have formed.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation Matters on which we are required to report by exception of the parent company financial statements and for being We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company if, in our opinion: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those adequate accounting records have not been kept by the standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free by law are not made: or from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or we have not received all the information and explanations error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the we require for our audit.
accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Other matters adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant We have reported separately on the Group financial accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read 31 August 2011. all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Stephen Griggs Senior Statutory Auditor financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor the implications for our report.
London, United Kingdom 13 October 2011 WH Smith PLC WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 65 Annual report and accounts 2011 65 38-71. indd 65 17 11 2011 12:16
