F Fiin na an nc ciia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Opinion on financial statements WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2011 In our opinion the Group financial statements: which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Balance affairs as at 31 August 2011 and of its profit for the Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group year then ended: Statement of Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 have been properly prepared in accordance with to 27.
The financial reporting framework that has been IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and applied in their preparation is applicable law and have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Act 2006 so that we might state to the Companys members those In our opinion the information given in the Directors report matters we are required to state to them in an auditors for the financial year for which the financial statements are report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys Matters on which we are required to report by exception members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We have nothing to report in respect of the following: or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation by law are not made: or of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that we have not received all the information and explanations they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit we require for our audit.
and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to the directors statement contained within the Directors comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical report in relation to going concern: Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions Scope of the audit of the financial statements of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts our review: and and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to certain elements of the report to shareholders by the give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Board on directors remuneration.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether Other matters the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups We have reported separately on the parent company circumstances and have been consistently applied and financial statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 31 August 2011 and on the information in the Directors accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Remuneration Report that is described as having presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read been audited.
all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Stephen Griggs Senior Statutory Auditor financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor implications for our report.
London, United Kingdom 13 October 2011 WH Smith PLC WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 38 38 Annual report and accounts 2011 38-71. indd 38 17 11 2011 12:16
