Our 2011 financial statements Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members Respective responsibilities of directors of WPP plc and auditors We have audited the Group and parent company financial As explained more fully in the Responsibilities in respect of statements the financial statements of WPP plc for the year the preparation of financial statements section, the directors ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the accounting are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements policies, the consolidated income statement excluding the and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
US dollar information, the consolidated statement of Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement, financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those of changes in equity, the parent company profit and loss standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices account and balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 40.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Scope of the audit of the financial statements Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts preparation of the parent company financial statements is and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud This report is made solely to the Companys members, as or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so parent companys circumstances and have been consistently that we might state to the Companys members those matters applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of we are required to state to them in an auditors report and significant accounting estimates made by the directors: for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial than the Company and the Companys members as a body, information in the annual report to identify material for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
