Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
com Independent Auditors report to the members of Xstrata plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Xstrata plc for the year Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 117 ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the consolidated income In our opinion: statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 37. financial statements: and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the information given in the Corporate Governance report as adopted by the European Union.
set out on page 87 to 95 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, share capital structures is consistent with the Group financial statements.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Matters on which we are required to report by exception members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the following: report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company if, in our opinion: and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out we have not received all the information and explanations we require for on page 116, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group our audit: or financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
a Corporate Governance report has not been prepared by Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial the Company.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Standards require us to comply with the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors report, set out on page 113, in relation Scope of the audit of the financial statements to going concern: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the part of the Corporate Governance report relating to the Companys the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by specified for our review: and fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, and have been certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of on Directors remuneration.
significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Other matters presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material Xstrata plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the information in inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements Mirco Bardella Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the Group financial statements: for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: 15 March 2012 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and The maintenance and integrity of the Xstrata plc website is the responsibility have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
