Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc We have audited the financial statements of Balfour Beatty plc for Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Group and Act2006 Company income statements, the Group and Company statements In our opinion: of comprehensive income, the Group and Company statements of the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has financial position, the Group and Company statements of changes been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act in equity, the Group and Company statements of cash flows, 2006: and andthe related Notes 1 to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted year for which the financial statements are prepared is bythe European Union.
consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To in our opinion: the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume adequate accounting records have not been kept by the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, received from branches not visited by us: or or for the opinions we have formed.
the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities accounting records and returns: or Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion are not made: or on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law we have not received all the information and explanations we andInternational Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those require for our audit.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, contained within the Directors Report, Scope of the audit of the financial statements in relation to going concern: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to assurance that the financial statements are free from material theCompanys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on tothe Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been Directors remuneration.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial John Adam statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material Senior Statutory Auditor misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications forour report.
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements London, United Kingdom In our opinion: 7 March 2012 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state ofthe Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Groups and the Companys profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
94 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
