Independent Auditors Report of any apparent material misstatements or Independent Auditors Report to the inconsistencies we consider the implications for our Members of F&C Commercial Property report.
Trust Limited We have audited the Group financial statements Opinion on Financial Statements the financial statements of F&C Commercial In our opinion the financial statements: Property Trust Limited the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated its profit for the year then ended: Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated.
are in accordance with International Financial Statement of Changes in Equity and the related Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB: and notes.
The financial reporting framework that has.
comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, been applied in their preparation is applicable law 2008. and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB.
Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception This report is made solely to the Companys We have nothing to report in respect of the members, as a body, in accordance with section following matters where the Companies Guernsey 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our Law, 2008 requires us to report to you if, in our audit work has been undertaken so that we might opinion: state to the Companys members those matters we.
the Company has not kept proper accounting are required to state to them in an auditors report records, or and for no other purpose.
the financial statements are not in agreement with permitted by law, we do not accept or assume the accounting records: or responsibility to anyone other than the Company.
we have not received all the information and and the Companys members as a body, for our explanations, which to the best of our knowledge audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we and belief are necessary for the purpose of our have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor We have nothing to report with respect to the As explained more fully in the Statement of following: Directors Responsibilities set out on page 28, the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review Directors are responsible for the preparation of the the part of the Corporate Governance Statement financial statements and for being satisfied that they relating to the Companys compliance with the nine give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code audit and express an opinion on the financial specified for our review.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Heather J MacCallum for and on behalf of Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements KPMG Channel Islands Limited An audit involves obtaining evidence about the Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 28 March 2012 sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance This includes an assessment of: whether the and integrity of the corporate and financial accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups information included on the Companys website.
The work carried out by the auditor does not circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of include consideration of these matters and, significant accounting estimates made by the Board accordingly the auditor accepts no responsibility for of Directors: and the overall presentation of the any changes that may have occurred to the financial financial statements.
In addition, we read all the statements or audit report since they were initially financial and non-financial information in the Annual presented on the website.
Legislation governing the Report to identify material inconsistencies with the preparation and dissemination of financial audited financial statements.
If we become aware statements may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
