Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 61 B usiness review G overnance Financials Independent auditors report to the members of Grainger plc on the group financial statements We have audited the group financial statements of Grainger plc Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
for the year ended 30 September 2011 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial Act 2006 position, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, In our opinion: the consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their The information given in the directors report for the financial preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting year for which the group financial statements are prepared is Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
consistent with the group financial statements: and The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors set out on pages 44 to 49 with respect to internal control and As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement risk management systems and about share capital structures is set out on page 58, the directors are responsible for the consistent with the financial statements.
preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility Matters on which we are required to report by exception is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: statements in accordance with applicable law and International Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require in our opinion: us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with We have not received all the information and explanations Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other we require for our audit: or purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume A corporate governance statement has not been prepared responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to by the parent company.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The directors statement, set out on page 49, in relation to Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and going concern: disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to assurance that the financial statements are free from material the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and directors remuneration.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of Other matter the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and We have reported separately on the parent company financial non-financial information in the annual report to identify material statements of Grainger plc for the year ended 30 September 2011 inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies described as having been audited.
we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: Bowker Andrews Senior Statutory Auditor Give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at for and on behalf of  LLP 30 September 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors then ended: Newcastle upon Tyne Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 5 December 2011 adopted by the European Union: and
