Helical Bar plc 2011 page 55 report of independent auditor Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB To the Members of Helical Bar plc As explained in Note 1 to the group financial statements, the group in We have audited the financial statements of Helical Bar plc for the addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the consolidated income by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
group and company balance sheets, the group and company cash ow statements and the group and company statement of changes in equity, In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been by the IASB.
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in In our opinion: accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. sTHEPARTOFTHE$IRECTORS  This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our  audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors financial statements: and, report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, # we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the pages 44 to 47 with respect to internal control and risk management company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities We have nothing to report in respect of the following: set out on page 42, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial opinion: statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards  OR on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements $IRECTORS Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided accounting records and returns: or on the APBs website at www.
"  Opinion on financial statements made: or In our opinion:  our audit: or  sA# groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review:  sTHEDIRECTORS STATEMENT SETOUTONPAGE  accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: sTHEPARTOFTHE# S  compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as specified for our review: and, applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: ""OARDON and, directors remuneration."
 requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 15 June 2011 page 56 Helical Bar plc 2011
