Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Independent Auditors Report As explained in the Accounting Policies on page 83 to 87 of the Group to the members of BBA Aviation plc financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of BBA obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also Aviation plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Board IASB.
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of as issued by the IASB.
Changes in Equity, the Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 26.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, consistent with the Group financial statements.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Matters on which we are required to report by exception Companys members those matters we are required to state to them We have nothing to report in respect of the following: in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone if, in our opinion: other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the directors statement, contained within the Directors Report Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group on page 76, in relation to going concern: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Standards for Auditors.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the parent company financial assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements of BBA Aviation plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the described as having been audited.
Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Nigel Mercer Senior statutory auditor estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonChartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor financial information in the annual report to identify material London, United Kingdom inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become 1 March 2012 aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
