224170 UKCPT pp16-pp24 22 03 2012 13:19 Page 24 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited We have audited the financial statements of UK Commercial Opinion on financial statements Property Trust Limited for the year ended 31 December 2011 In our opinion the financial statements: which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 20.
The financial reporting have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable adopted by the European Union: law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, Matters on which we are required to report by 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state exception to the Companys members those matters we are required to state We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the report to you if, in our opinion: Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
proper accounting records have not been kept: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on page 23, the directors are responsible for the we have not received all the information and explanations we preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that require for our audit.
they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: applicable Guernsey law and International Standards on Auditing the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Governance Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Michael Bane disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP assurance that the financial statements are free from material Guernsey, Channel Islands misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 19 March 2012 assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
24 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
