Independent auditors report to the members of 3i infrastructure plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements the financial Opinion on financial statements statements of 3i Infrastructure plc and its subsidiaries together In our opinion the financial statements: the Group for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and and Company statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated and Companys affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of the Groups profit Company balance sheet, the Consolidated and Company statement for the year then ended: of cash flows, the Significant accounting policies and Notes to the have been properly prepared in accordance with International accounts 1 to 21.
The financial reporting framework that has been Financial Reporting Standards: and applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law Matters on which we are required to report 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state by exception to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the to you if, in our opinion: Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not Respective responsibilities of directors visited by us: or and auditors the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors records and returns: or Responsibilities on page 42, the directors are responsible for we have not received all the information and explanations we the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied require for our audit.
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Combined Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Geraint Davies disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP assurance that the financial statements are free from material Jersey, Channel Islands misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 4 May 2011 assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied Notes: and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the 3i Infrastructure plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept financial and non-financial information in the Performance highlights, no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Our business, A closer look at our business, the Chairmans 2.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statement, the Investment advisers review, the Review of statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
investments, the Returns and Risk, Governance, the Investment policy, the Portfolio valuation methodology and Information for shareholders, to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Financials and other information 3i Infrastructure plc 50 Annual report and accounts 2011
