Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Independent auditors report to the members of Amlin plc We have audited the group financial statements Opinion on financial statements Other matter of Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December In our opinion the group financial statements: We have reported separately on the parent 2011 which comprise the Consolidated Income company financial statements of Amlin plc give a true and fair view of the state of the Statement, the Consolidated Statement of for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated the information in the Directors Remuneration its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Report that is described as having been audited.
have been properly prepared in accordance Balance Sheet, and the Consolidated Statement Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: of Cash Flows and the related notes 1-40. for and on behalf of  LLP and The financial reporting framework that has been Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors have been prepared in accordance with the applied in their preparation is applicable law and London requirements of the Companies Act 2006 International Financial Reporting Standards 2 March 2012 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on other matters prescribed Respective responsibilities of directors by the Companies Act 2006 and auditors In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 96, the information given in the Directors the directors are responsible for the preparation Report for the financial year for which the of the group financial statements and for being group financial statements are prepared is satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our consistent with the group financial statements: responsibility is to audit and express an opinion and on the group financial statements in accordance the information given in the Corporate with applicable law and International Standards Governance Statement set out on pages 62-71 on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards with respect to internal control and risk require us to comply with the Auditing Practices management systems and about share Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
capital structures is consistent with the This report, including the opinions, has financial statements.
been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 Matters on which we are required of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for to report by exception no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these We have nothing to report in respect opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any of the following: other purpose or to any other person to whom Under the Companies Act 2006 we are this report is shown or into whose hands it may required to report to you if, in our opinion: come save where expressly agreed by our prior certain disclosures of directors remuneration consent in writing.
specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information Scope of the audit of the financial and explanations we require for our audit: or statements a corporate governance statement has not An audit involves obtaining evidence about been prepared by the parent company.
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: assurance that the financial statements are free the directors statement, set out on page 95, from material misstatement, whether caused by in relation to going concern: fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate the part of the Corporate Governance to the groups circumstances and have been Statement relating to the companys consistently applied and adequately disclosed: compliance with the nine provisions of the the reasonableness of significant accounting UK Corporate Governance Code specified estimates made by the directors: and the overall for our review: and presentation of the financial statements.
In certain elements of the report to shareholders addition, we read all the financial and nonby the Board on directors remuneration.
financial information in the Amlin Annual Report 2011 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
