Report of the Independent Auditor to the members of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc We have audited the financial statements of BlackRock World Mining Opinion on financial statements Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2011, which comprise the In our opinion: Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, Group and Company the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Statements of Financial Position, Group and Company Cash Flow the Groups and Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and Statements and the related notes 1 to 20.
The financial reporting of the Groups net return for the year then ended: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the Groups financial statements have been properly prepared in the European Union and, as regards to the parent company financial accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. the Companys financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act in accordance with Chapter 3, Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
2006: and Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of the directors and auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 33, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and been property prepared in accordance with the Companies Act fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in 2006: and accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report and financial statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
34 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Companys financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement on page 22 in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Matthew Price Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 23 February 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 35
