BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BLUECREST ALLBLUE FUND LIMITED We have audited the financial statements of BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Cash Flows, the Statement of Changes in Net Assets Attributable to Shareholders and the related notes 1 to 16.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 30, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
38 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BLUECREST ALLBLUE FUND LIMITED continued Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Proper accounting records have not been kept: or The financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Christopher James Matthews FCA for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey, Channel Islands Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
