Independent Auditors Report sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Independent Auditors Report to financial statements are free from material the Members of British Assets misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Trust plc This includes an assessment of: whether the We have audited the financial statements of British accounting policies are appropriate to the Assets Trust plc for the year ended 30 September Companys circumstances and have been 2011 which comprise the Income Statement, the consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement made by the Directors: and the overall presentation and the related notes 1 to 18.
The financial reporting of the financial statements.
framework that has been applied in their preparation In addition, we read all the financial and nonis applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting financial information in the Companys annual report Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted and accounts to identify material inconsistencies Accounting Practice.
with the audited financial statements.
If we become This report is made solely to the Companys aware of any apparent material mis-statements or members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 inconsistencies we consider the implications for our of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are Opinion on Financial Statements required to state to them in an auditors report and In our opinion the financial statements: for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility.
give a true and fair view of the state of the to anyone other than the Company and the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2011 and Companys members as a body, for our audit work, of its loss for the year then ended: for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.. have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Practice: and Auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of.
have been prepared in accordance with the Directors Responsibilities set out on page 48, the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Companies Act 2006 audit and express an opinion on the financial In our opinion: statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.. the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Those standards require us to comply with the be audited has been properly prepared in Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Auditors.. the information given in the Report of the Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements Directors for the financial year for which the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the financial statements are prepared is consistent amounts and disclosures in the financial statements with the financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49 Independent Auditors Report continued Matters on Which We are Required to Report by Under the Listing Rules we are Required to Exception Review: We have nothing to report in respect of the.
the Directors statement, set out on page 26, in following: relation to going concern: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement report to you if, in our opinion: relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2010 Combined Code.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, specified for our review: and or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or.
certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.. the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Julian Young Senior Statutory Auditor.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration for and on behalf of specified by law are not made: or Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
14 November 2011 50 British Assets Trust plc
