DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED We have audited the financial statements of Dexion Absolute In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Limited the Company for the year ended 31 December information in the Report and Accounts to identify material 2011 which comprise the Statement of Financial Position, inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes become aware of any apparent material misstatements or in Shareholders Equity, Statement of Cash Flows and the inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and Opinion on financial statements International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the In our opinion the financial statements: IASB.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its result for the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a year then ended: body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies are in accordance with International Financial Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB: and so that we might state to the Companys members those comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Matters on which we are required to report permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility by exception to anyone other than the Company and the Companys We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for where the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires us to the opinions we have formed.
report to you if, in our opinion: the Company has not kept proper accounting records: Respective responsibilities of Directors and or Auditor the financial statements are not in agreement with the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors' accounting records: or Responsibility set out on page 26, the Directors are we have not received all the information and responsible for the preparation of the financial statements explanations, which to the best of our knowledge and and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our belief are necessary for the purpose of our audit.
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Board's APB's Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report with respect to this review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Heather J. MacCallum disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give For and on behalf of KPMG Channel Islands Limited reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 20 April 2012 error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
