Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2011 independent auditors report to the MeMBers oF BooKer Group plc we have audited the financial statements of Booker Group plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the for the period ended 25 March 2011 set out on pages 30 to Companies Act 2006 62. the financial reporting framework that has been applied in in our opinion: the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and international Financial reporting standards iFrss as the part of the directors remuneration report to be adopted by the eu.
the financial reporting framework that has audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial companies act 2006: statements is applicable law and uK accounting standards uK the information given in the directors report for the financial Generally accepted accounting practice.
period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 of part 16 of the companies act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the by exception companys members those matters we are required to state to we have nothing to report in respect of the following: them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility under the companies act 2006 we are required to report to you to anyone other than the company and the companys members, if, in our opinion: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Respective responsibilities of Directors and been received from branches not visited by us: or Auditor the parent company financial statements and the part of as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in set out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation agreement with the accounting records and returns: or of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by true and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit, and express an law are not made: or opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and international standards on auditing uK and ireland.
we have not received all the information and explanations we those standards require us to comply with the auditing practices require for our audit.
Boards apBs ethical standards for auditors.
under the listing rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation to a description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is going concern: provided on the apBs website at www.
the part of the corporate Governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June Opinion on financial statements 2008 combined code specified for our review: and in our opinion: certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 25 March 2011 and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: Nicola Quayle the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Senior Statutory Auditor in accordance with iFrss as adopted by the eu: for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with uK Generally accepted st. James square accounting practice: Manchester the financial statements have been prepared in accordance M2 6ds with the requirements of the companies act 2006: and, as 18 May 2011 regards the Group financial statements, article 4 of the ias regulation.
