Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC We have audited the financial statements of Fidelity OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY China Special Situations PLC for the period ended THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 31 March 2011 which comprise the Income Statement, In our opinion: the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be financial reporting framework that has been applied in audited has been properly prepared in accordance their preparation is applicable law and International with the Companies Act 2006: and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
the information given in the Directors Report for the reporting period for which the financial statements This report is made solely to the Companys are prepared is consistent with the financial Shareholders, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of statements.
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO Companys Shareholders those matters we are required REPORT BY EXCEPTION to state to them in an auditors report and for no other We have nothing to report in respect of the following: purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to the Company and the Companys Shareholders as a report to you if, in our opinion: body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS received from branches not visited by us: or AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the financial statements and the part of the Responsibilities set out on page 24, the Directors are Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are responsible for the preparation of the financial not in agreement with the accounting records and statements and for being satisfied that they give a true returns: or and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance certain disclosures of Directors remuneration with applicable law and International Standards on specified by law are not made: or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs we have not received all the information and Ethical Standards for Auditors.
explanations we require for our audit.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: STATEMENTS A description of the scope of an audit of financial the Directors statement, set out on page 23, in statements is provided on the APBs website at relation to going concern: www.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS relating to the Companys compliance with the nine In our opinion the financial statements: provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of its certain elements of the report to the Shareholders by profit for the period then ended: the Board on Directors remuneration.
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS Marcus Swales as adopted by the EU: and Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP have been prepared in accordance with the Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
London 17 June 2011 Page 32 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011
