Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY We have audited the financial statements of Fidelity European EXCEPTION Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has in our opinion: been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Accepted Accounting Practice.
not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act the accounting records and returns: or 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law to the Companys members those matters we are required to state are not made: or to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the we have not received all the information and explanations we fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume require for our audit.
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: or for the opinions we have formed.
the Directors statement, set out on page 24, in relation to going concern: RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Responsibilities set out on page 21, the Directors are responsible Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and for the preparation of the financial statements and for being certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the Board satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to on Directors remuneration.
audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Julian Bartlett with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Senior Statutory Auditor Auditors.
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS London A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 6 March 2012 provided on the APBs website at www.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its net loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
30 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011
