Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the Group financial statements of British American Matters on which we are required to report by exception Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2011 which We have nothing to report in respect of the following: comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, in our opinion: the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the notes certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law on the accounts and the Principal subsidiary undertakings and the Principal associate undertakings.
The financial reporting framework are not made: or that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and we have not received all the information and explanations we International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the Directors statement, set out on page 108, in relation to As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set going concern: out on page 108, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Directors remuneration.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 31 December 2011 and on the information in the remuneration of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
report that is described as having been audited.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and for and on behalf of  LLP disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors assurance that the financial statements are free from material London, United Kingdom misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 22 February 2012 assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 109
