Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December Companies Act 2006 2011 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet, and In our opinion: the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has the part of the remuneration report to be audited has been been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors year for which the Parent Company financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company set out on page 108, the Directors are responsible for the financial statements.
preparation of the Parent Company financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law in our opinion: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other the accounting records and returns: or purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come law are not made: or save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the Group financial statements assurance that the financial statements are free from material of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 31 December 2011. assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we for and on behalf of  LLP read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited London, United Kingdom financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
22 February 2012 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 196
