CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS Independent Auditors report the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with INDePeNDeNT AUDITORS RePORT TO THe MeMBeRS the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards OF BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of British Sky Separate opinion in relation to IFrSs as issued by Broadcasting Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2011 which the IASB comprise the Consolidated and Company Income Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, As explained in note 1 to the Consolidated financial statements, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and IFRSs as adopted by the european Union, has also applied IFRSs as Company Statements of Changes in equity and the related notes issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied In our opinion the Consolidated financial statements comply with in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the european Union.
opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Act 2006 accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the In our opinion: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Act 2006: and other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is respective responsibilities of directors and auditor consistent with the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, matters on which we are required to report by exception the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and We have nothing to report in respect of the following: fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law our opinion: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been ethical Standards for Auditors.
received from branches not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Parent Company financial statements and the part of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable agreement with the accounting records and returns: or assurance that the financial statements are free from material certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an are not made: or assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been we have not received all the information and explanations we consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness require for our audit.
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we the directors statement contained within the Annual Report in read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual relation to going concern on page 48: Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK our report.
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and opinion on financial statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June William Touche Senior Statutory Auditor 2011 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP year then ended: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom the financial statements have been properly prepared in 28 July 2011 accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the european Union: and AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 60 Book 1. indb 60 12 10 11 20:47:06
