FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB United Kingdom opinion As explained in the Accounting policies section of the consolidated Independent Auditors Report to the members of financial statements the group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, BT Group plc the company has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting We have audited the consolidated financial statements of BT Group Standards Board IASB.
plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group cash ow IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
statement, the Group balance sheet, the Accounting policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 applied in their preparation is applicable law and International In our opinion the information given in the Report of the directors Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European for the financial year for which the consolidated financial Union.
statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors Matters on which we are required to report by exception responsibilities set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility in our opinion: is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us not made: or to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for we have not received all the information and explanations we Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 the directors statement, set out on page 54, in relation to going of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We concern: do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Combined Code specified for our review: and agreed by our prior consent in writing.
certain elements of the Report on directors remuneration.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the parent company financial assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an on the information in the Report on directors remuneration that is assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to described as having been audited.
the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F for the year ended 31 March 2011 to identify material Philip Rivett Senior Statutory Auditor inconsistencies with the audited consolidated financial statements.
for and on behalf of  LLP If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
London, United Kingdom 11 May 2011 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the United States opinion overall financial statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an Report of Independent Registered Public understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating Shareholders of BT Group plc the company the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on In our opinion, the accompanying Group income statements, Group the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other statements of comprehensive income, Group statements of procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We changes in equity, Group cash ow statements and Group balance believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
sheets present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries at 31 March 2011 and 2010 designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability and the results of their operations and cash ows for each of the of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements three years in the period ended 31 March 2011, in conformity with for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial International Accounting Standards Board.
Also, in our opinion the reporting includes those policies and procedures that i pertain to company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2011, based on and fairly reect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of criteria established in the Turnbull Guidance.
the company: ii provide reasonable assurance that transactions The companys management is responsible for these financial are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are control over financial reporting, included in managements being made only in accordance with authorisations of management evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial and directors of the company: and iii provide reasonable reporting as set out in the first three paragraphs of Internal control assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised over financial reporting in the Report of the directors, Business acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could Policies of the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F. have a material effect on the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial statements and on the companys internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, reporting based on our integrated audits.
We conducted our audits projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are in accordance with the standards of the Public Company subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable policies or procedures may deteriorate.
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a  LLP test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the London, United Kingdom financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and 11 May 2011 90
