Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of JPMorgan American have been properly prepared in accordance with United Investment Trust plc.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan American have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Investment Trust plc the Company for the year ended the Companies Act 2006.
31st December 2011 which comprise the Income Statement, Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 23.
The In our opinion: financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting has been properly prepared in accordance with the Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Companies Act 2006: and Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Matters on which we are required to report by exception state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the if, in our opinion: Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the financial statements and the part of the Directors Responsibilities set out on page 34, the Directors are responsible Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement for the preparation of the financial statements and for being with the accounting records and returns: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in law are not made: or accordance with applicable law and International Standards on we have not received all the information and explanations we Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply require for our audit.
with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 25, in relation to Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements going concern: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are on Directors remuneration.
appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed, the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Stuart McLaren Senior Statutory Auditor Directors, and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we London, United Kingdom become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 23rd March 2012 inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on the Financial Statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st December 2011 and of its net return for the year then ended: JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
