Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc for the year ended 30th September 2011 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 which comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of In our opinion: Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be framework that has been applied in their preparation is audited has been properly prepared in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards the Companies Act 2006: and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 33, the Directors are Matters on which we are required to report by exception responsible for the preparation of the financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of the following: and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to financial statements in accordance with applicable law and you if, in our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those adequate accounting records have not been kept, or standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices returns adequate for our audit have not been received Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and the financial statements and the part of the Directors only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no with the accounting records and returns: or other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other by law are not made: or person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it we have not received all the information and may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Directors statement, set out on pages 23 and 24, in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and relation to going concern: disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting review: and policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the certain elements of the report to shareholders by the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Board on Directors remuneration.
the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor non-financial information in the Annual Report & Accounts to for and on behalf of  LLP identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 20th December 2011 implications for our report.
Notes: Opinion on financial statements a The maintenance and integrity of the JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc In our opinion the financial statements: website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of JPMAM: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may affairs as at 30th September 2011 and of its net loss and have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on cash flows for the year then ended: the Companys website.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
34 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
