European Smaller pp32 36 European Smaller pp32 36 31 05 2011 17:12 Page 32 Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan European Smaller Companies have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Trust plc formerly JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment of the Companies Act 2006.
Trust plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan In our opinion: European Smaller Companies Trust plc for the year ended 31st March 2011 which comprise the Income Statement, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Sheet, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial Companies Act 2006: and reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the information given in the Directors Report for the is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards financial year for which the financial statements are United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Statement set out on page 31, the Directors are responsible for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the preparation of the financial statements and for being you if, in our opinion: satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in adequate accounting records have not been kept, or accordance with applicable law and International Standards on returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to branches not visited by us: or comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards the financial statements and the part of the Directors for Auditors.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other law are not made: or purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume we have not received all the information and explanations responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to we require for our audit.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Directors statement, set out on page 23, in relation Scope of the audit of the financial statements to going concern: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Board on Directors remuneration.
policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial for and on behalf of  LLP statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors non-financial information in the Annual Report & Accounts to London identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material 31st May 2011 misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the JPMorgan European Smaller Opinion on financial statements Companies Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of JPMAM: the work carried out by the Auditors does not In our opinion the financial statements: involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys statements since they were initially presented on the website.
affairs as at 31st March 2011 and of its net return and cash b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and flows for the year then ended: dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other have been properly prepared in accordance with United jurisdictions.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and 32 JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
