Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of JPMorgan Russian have been properly prepared in accordance with United Securities plc.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan Russian have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Securities plc the Company for the year ended 31st October the Companies Act 2006.
2011 which comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow In our opinion: Statement, and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards has been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, financial year for which the financial statements are prepared in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act is consistent with the financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required Matters on which we are required to report by exception to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this if, in our opinion: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors branches visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the financial statements and the part of the Directors Responsibilities set out on page 30, the Directors are responsible Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement for the preparation of the financial statements and for being with the accounting records and returns: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
law are not made: or Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices we have not received all the information and explanations we Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the Directors statement, set out on page 22, in relation to disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give going concern: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board consistently applied and adequately disclosed, the on Directors remuneration.
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors, and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Michael-John Albert Senior statutory auditor in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material for and on behalf of inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor become aware of any apparent material misstatements or London 16th December 2011 inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on the Financial Statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st October 2011 and of its net loss for the year then ended: JPMorgan Russian Securities plc.
