220 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Opinion on the supplementary financial statements To the Directors of Legal & General Group Plc on the Supplementary Financial Statements European In our opinion, the supplementary financial statements for the Embedded Value Basis year ended 31 December 2011 have been properly prepared in all material respects in accordance with the European Embedded We have audited the Supplementary Financial Statements Value Basis set out in Note 1 Methodology.
European Embedded Value Basis of Legal & General Group Plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement European Embedded Value Basis, Consolidated Statement of  LLP Comprehensive Income European Embedded Value Basis, Chartered Accountants Consolidated Balance Sheet European Embedded Value Basis London and the related notes the supplementary financial statements 13 March 2012 which have been prepared in accordance with the European Notes: Embedded Value EEV Basis set out in Note 1 Methodology a The financial statements are published on the website of Legal & General Group Plc, www.
The maintenance and integrity of the Legal and which should be read in conjunction with the Groups & General Group Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried financial statements.
out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors are responsible for preparing the supplementary financial statements on the European Embedded Value Basis in accordance with the European Embedded Value Basis set out in Note 1 Methodology.
Our responsibility, as set out in our letter of engagement agreed with you dated 25 January 2012 is to audit and express an opinion on the supplementary financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards EthicalStandards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys directors as a body in accordance with our letter of engagement dated 25 January 2012 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the supplementary financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the supplementary financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
