OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 221 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the Members of Legal & General Group Plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies We have audited the parent company financial statements of Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 Act 2006 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet, the Company In our opinion: Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Company Reconciliation of Movements in Total Shareholders Funds and the part of the Directors Report on Remuneration to be the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors are prepared is consistent with the parent company As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities financial statements.
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied Matters on which we are required to report by exception that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International in our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards adequate accounting records have not been kept by the require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with the parent company financial statements and the part of the Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other Directors Report on Remuneration to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are Other matters We have reported separately on the group financial statements free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting of Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2011. policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Richard Keers Senior Statutory Auditor statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial for and on behalf of  LLP information in the annual report and accounts to identify material Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become London aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 13 March 2012 we consider the implications for our report.
Notes: a The financial statements are published on the website of Legal & General Group Plc, legalandgeneralgroup.
The maintenance and integrity of Legal & General Opinion on financial statements Group Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the In our opinion the parent company financial statements: auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
as at 31 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
