76 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Independent auditors report on the Groups financial statements We have audited the group financial statements of Man Group plc for Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the Group Income In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared is Statement of Financial Position, the Group Statement of Changes in consistent with the group financial statements.
Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes, which, as noted on page 55, are included in the Financial Review on pages 56 to Matters on which we are required to report by exception 75 and the Additional Financial Information on pages 112 to 125 and are We have nothing to report in respect of the following: described as having been audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors made: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set we have not received all the information and explanations we require out on page 113, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the for our audit.
group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards the directors statement, set out on page 57, in relation to going require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical concern: Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Combined Code specified for our review: and the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Other matter into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements consent in writing.
of Man Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 and on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having Scope of the audit of the financial statements been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Richard Oldfield by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Senior Statutory Auditor policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been for and on behalf of  LLP consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall London presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the 26 May 2011 financial and non-financial information in the Man Group plc Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
