party 104 Financials Annual report & accounts 2011 Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements Independent auditors report In our opinion: We have audited the financial statements the financial statements The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the ofbwin.
party digital entertainment plc for the year ended 31 December Groups and the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the 2011 which comprise the Group statement of comprehensive income, Groups loss for the year thenended: the Group and Company statements of financial position, the Group The Group and Companys financial statements have been properly andCompany statements of changes in equity, the Group and Company prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: statements of cashflows and the related notes.
The financial reporting The financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies the EuropeanUnion.
Act 1930 as amended : and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, The part of the Remuneration report described as having been inaccordance with our engagement letter.
Our audit work has been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with section 421 undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those ofthe UK Companies Act 2006 matters that we are required to state to them in an auditors report Opinion on other matters prescribed by legal and andfor no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do  not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company In our opinion information given in the Directors report for the year and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this ended 31December 2011 for which the financial statements are report, or for the opinions we have formed.
prepared is consistent with thefinancial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors andauditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the Directors are responsible for preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Under Gibraltar legal and regulatory requirements we are required Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial toreport to you if, in our opinion: statements and in accordance with applicable law and International The Company has not kept proper accounting records: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to If we have not received all the information and explanations comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards werequire for our audit: or forAuditors.
If information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration bwin.
party digital entertainment plc has complied with the andother transactions is not disclosed.
8 of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority and in accordance with section 421 Under the Listing Rules we are required toreview: oftheUK Companies Act 2006 in preparing its Annual report, as if it The Directors statement in relation to goingconcern: wasincorporated in the United Kingdom.
As auditors, we have agreed The part of the corporate governance statement relating to the that our responsibilities in relation to the Annual report will be those Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate asset out below.
Governance Code specified for our review: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Certain elements of the Remuneration report.
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements have BDO LLP been properly prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Chartered Accountants Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts 55 Baker Street Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 as amended, and the London W1U 7EU part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly United Kingdom prepared in accordance with section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
29 March 2012 We also report to you whether in our opinion, the information disclosed in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements, Christian Summerfield Statutory Auditor iftheCompany has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not For and on behalf of received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, BDO Limited or if information specified by the Listing Rules and Gibraltar legislation Registered Auditors Regal House regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
PO Box 1200 Scope of the audit of the financial statements Gibraltar A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 29 March 2012 on the APBs website at www.
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England andWales with registered number OC305127.
BDO Limited, a Gibraltar limited company, is registered in Gibraltar withcompany number 52200.
