JPM Mercantile pp30 34 JPM Mercantile pp30 34 31 03 2011 07:55 Page 30 30 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Independent Auditors Report To the members of The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act We have audited the financial statements of The 2006 Mercantile Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31st In our opinion: January 2011 which comprise the Income Statement, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, be audited has been properly prepared in Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement and the related accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United the information given in the Directors Report for Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom the financial year for which the financial statements Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 28, the Directors are We have nothing to report in respect of the following: responsible for the preparation of the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to statements and for being satisfied that they give a true report to you if, in our opinion: and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
received from branches not visited by us: or Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are This report, including the opinion, has been prepared not in agreement with the accounting records and for and only for the Companys members as a body in returns: or accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving certain disclosures of directors remuneration this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any specified by law are not made: or other purpose or to any other person to whom this we have not received all the information and report is shown or into whose hands it may come save explanations we require for our audit.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Directors statement, set out on page 21, in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts relation to going concern: and and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement are free from material misstatement, whether caused by relating to the Companys compliance with the nine fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether provisions of the 2008 Combined Code specified for the accounting policies are appropriate to the our review.
Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial for and on behalf of  LLP statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Opinion on financial statements 31st March 2011 In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st January 2011 and of its Notes: net return and cash flows for the year then ended: a The maintenance and integrity of The Mercantile Investment Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of the have been properly prepared in accordance with Directors: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors Practice: and accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
have been prepared in accordance with the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and requirements of the Companies Act 2006. dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
