We have audited the Parent Company Opinion on other matters prescribed Independent auditors by the Companies Act 2006 financial statements of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc for the year ended In our opinion: report to the members 31 March 2011 set out on pages 130 to 137.
The part of the Directors remuneration The financial reporting framework that has of Cable & Wireless report to be audited has been properly been applied in their preparation is applicable prepared in accordance with the Companies Communications Plc law and UK Accounting Standards UK Act 2006: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The information given in the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys report for the financial year for which members, as a body, in accordance with the financial statements are prepared is Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act consistent with the Parent Company 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken financial statements.
so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required Matters on which we are required to state to them in an auditors report and to report by exception for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We have nothing to report in respect of the permitted by law, we do not accept or following matters where the Companies Act assume responsibility to anyone other than 2006 requires us to report to you if, the Company and the Companys members, in our opinion: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or Respective responsibilities of Directors returns adequate for our audit have not and auditor been received from branches not visited As explained more fully in the Statement by us: or of Directors responsibilities set out on The Parent Company financial statements page 61, the Directors are responsible for the and the part of the Directors remuneration preparation of the Parent Company financial report to be audited are not in agreement statements and for being satisfied that they with the accounting records and returns: or give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the Parent Certain disclosures of Directors Company financial statements in accordance remuneration specified by law are not with applicable law and International made: or Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those We have not received all the information standards require us to comply with the and explanations we require for our audit.
Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group Scope of the audit of the financial financial statements of Cable & Wireless statements Communications Plc for the year ended A description of the scope of an audit of 31 March 2011. financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor private.
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements Chartered Accountants In our opinion the Parent Company financial 15 Canada Square statements: London E14 5GL Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2011 24 May 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
