We have audited the Group financial Opinion on other matter prescribed by Independent auditors statements of Cable & Wireless the Companies Act 2006 Communications Plc for the year ended In our opinion: report to the members 31 March 2011 set out on pages 63 to 128.
The information given in the Directors The financial reporting framework that has of Cable & Wireless report for the financial year for which the been applied in their preparation is applicable Group financial statements are prepared Communications Plc law and International Financial Reporting is consistent with the Group financial Standards IFRS as adopted by the statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys Matters on which we are required members, as a body, in accordance with to report by exception Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act We have nothing to report in respect of 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken the following: so that we might state to the Companys Under the Companies Act 2006 we are members those matters we are required required to report to you if, in our opinion: to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Certain disclosures of Directors permitted by law, we do not accept or remuneration specified by law are not assume responsibility to anyone other than made: or the Company and the Companys members We have not received all the information as a body, for our audit work, for this report, and explanations we require for our audit.
or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required Respective responsibilities of Directors to review: and auditor The Directors statement, set out on As explained more fully in the Statement page 41, in relation to going concern: of Directors responsibilities set out on page 61, the Directors are responsible for the The part of the Corporate governance preparation of the Group financial statements report on pages 44 to 46 relating to the and for being satisfied that they give a true Groups compliance with the nine provisions and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, of the June 2008 Combined Code specified and express an opinion on, the Group financial for our review: and statements in accordance with applicable law Certain elements of the report to and International Standards on Auditing UK shareholders by the Board on Directors and Ireland.
Those standards require us to remuneration.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Scope of the audit of the financial Company financial statements of Cable & statements Wireless Communications Plc for the year A description of the scope of an audit ended 31 March 2011 and on the information of financial statements is provided on the in the Directors remuneration report that is APBs website at described as having been audited.
Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc In our opinion the Group financial statements: Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Give a true and fair view of the state of the 15 Canada Square Groups affairs as at 31 March 2011 and London of its profit for the year then ended: E14 5GL Have been properly prepared in accordance 24 May 2011 with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
62 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements
