INDEpENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO ThE MEMBERS Of CABLE & WIRELESS WORLDWIDE pLC We have examined the summary financial Basis of opinion statement for the year ended 31 March 2011 We conducted our work in accordance with which comprises the summary consolidated Bulletin 2008 3 The auditors statement on income statement, summary consolidated thesummary financial statement in the United statement of financial position and summary Kingdom issued by the Auditing Practices consolidated statement of cash flows set out on Board.
Our report on the Groups full annual pages 26 to 28, and the summary Directors financial statements describes the basis of report and summary Directors remuneration ouraudit opinion on those financial statements, report set out on pages 2 to 24. the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report.
This statement is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section Opinion on summary financial statement 428 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our work has In our opinion the summary financial statement been undertaken so that we might state to the isconsistent with the full annual financial companys members those matters we are statements, the Directors report and the required to state to them in such a statement Directors remuneration report of Cable & Wireless andfor no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Worldwide Plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 permitted by law, we do not accept or assume and complies with the applicable requirements responsibility to anyone other than the company of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and and the companys members as a body, for our the regulations made thereunder.
work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Respective responsibilities of directors StatutoryAuditor and auditor The Directors are responsible for preparing the Chartered Accountants Annual Review in accordance with applicable 15 Canada Square United Kingdom law.
London E14 5GL Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion 23 May 2011 on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review with the full annual financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Review 25
