Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray Income Trust PLC have been properly prepared in accordance with United We have audited the Financial Statements of Murray Income Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Trust PLC for the year ended 30 June 2011 which comprise have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Reconciliation of the Companies Act 2006.
Movements in Shareholders Funds, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 19.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is Opinion on other matters prescribed by the applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Companies Act 2006 United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 to the Companies Act 2006: and Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so the information given in the Directors Report for the that we might state to the Company's members those financial year for which the financial statements are matters we are required to state to them in an auditors prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Matters on which we are required to report by to anyone other than the Company and the Company's exception members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors you if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns Responsibilities set out on page 32, the Directors are adequate for our audit have not been received from responsible for the preparation of the financial statements branches not visited by us: or and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement accordance with applicable law and International Standards with the accounting records and returns: or on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards law are not made: or for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the Directors Statement, set out on page 25, in relation to disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give going concern: and reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the part of the Statement of Corporate Governance relating from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and our review: and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Board on Directors remuneration.
the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Companys 2011 Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we S Su ue e D Da aw we e S Se en niio or r S Sta tat tu uto tor ry y A Au ud diito tor r S Su ue e D Da aw we e S Se en niio or r S Sta tat tu uto tor ry y A Au ud diito tor r consider the implications for our report.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Edinburgh Opinion on financial statements 9 September 2011 In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: Murray Income Trust PLC 35
