Independent Auditors Report to the Members of y International Trust PLC Murra We have audited the financial statements of Murray Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys International Trust PLC for the year ended 31 December affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its loss for the year 2011 which comprise the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, then ended: Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Cash Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 21.
The financial Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and, reporting framework that has been applied in their Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom the Companies Act 2006.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a In our opinion: body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be so that we might state to the Companys members those audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Companies Act 2006: and report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent The information given in the Directors Report for the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility financial year for which the financial statements are to anyone other than the Company and the Companys prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor We have nothing to report in respect of the following: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 36 the Directors are responsible for the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to preparation of the financial statements and for being you if, in our opinion: satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns financial statements in accordance with applicable law and adequate for our audit have not been received from International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those branches not visited by us: or standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices The financial statements and the part of the Directors Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and law are not made: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We have not received all the information and explanations reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free we require for our audit.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the The Directors statement on page 28 in relation to going reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by concern: the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonthe Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the financial information in Murray International Trust PLCs UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: 2011 Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with and the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any Certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we Board on Directors remuneration.
consider the implications for our report.
Susan Dawe Senior statutory auditor Opinion on financial statements for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Edinburgh In our opinion the financial statements: 28 February 2012 Murray International Trust PLC 39
