Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information MCEV INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to Old Mutual plc on the Market Consistent Embedded Value basis supplementary information We have audited the Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis supplementary information the supplementary information of Old Mutual plc the Company on pages 244 to 285 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the supplementary information is the Market Consistent Embedded Value Principles issued in October 2009 by the European CFO Forum the MCEV Principles.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the Group financial statements which are on pages 127 to 231.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 242, the directors have accepted responsibility for preparing the supplementary information on an MCEV basis in accordance with the MCEV Principles.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the supplementary information in accordance with the terms of our engagement and having regard to International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the supplementary information An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors.
In view of the purpose for which the supplementary information has been prepared, however, we did not assess the overall presentation of the supplementary information which would have been required if we were to express an audit opinion under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion on the supplementary information In our opinion, the MCEV basis supplementary information of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 has been properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the MCEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions as detailed in the basis of preparation of the supplementary information on page 248.
Philip Smart Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 9 March 2012 O Olld M d Mu utu tua all p pllc c 24 243 3 A An nnual nual Repor Report t and and A Accoun ccount ts s 2 20 01 11 1
