Financial statements independent aUditoRs RepoRt 141 independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc We have audited the financial statements of Provident Financial plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, earnings per share and dividends, the group and company balance sheets, the group and company statements of changes in shareholders equity, the group and company statements of cashflows, the statement of accounting policies, financial and capital risk management and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 69, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Directors Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the groups profit and groups and companys cashflows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 60 to 69 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 142 independent aUditoRs RepoRt continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 57, in relation to going concern: the parts of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Randal Casson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds, 28 February 2012 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 information for shareholders information for shareholders 143 InformatIon for shareholders Financial calendar final dividend Tax on dividends Capita share portal A UK tax resident individual shareholder Capita Registrars offer a share portal service 2011 Final who receives a dividend is entitled to a which enables registered shareholders to Dividend announced 28 February 2012 tax credit in respect of the dividend.
manage their Provident Financial shareholdings Annual general meeting 2 May 2012 quickly and easily online.
Once registered for 1 The tax credit is 9th of the dividend Ex-dividend date for this service, you will have access to your corresponding to 10% of the dividend ordinary shares 16 May 2012 personal shareholding and a range of services and the associated tax credit.
including: setting up or amending dividend bank Record date for the dividend 18 May 2012 mandates: proxy voting and amending personal A UK tax resident individual shareholder is details.
For further information visit therefore treated as having paid tax at 10% Payment date for the www.
on the aggregate of the dividend and the dividend 21 June 2012 associated tax credit: as starting and basic rate taxpayers are liable to tax on the dividend and Capita Dividend Share price the associated tax credit at 10%, they will have Reinvestment Plan no further liability to tax in respect of the The Companys shares are listed on the London dividend.
UK tax resident individuals cannot Capita Registrars offer a Dividend Reinvestment Stock Exchange under share code PFG.
The claim a refund of the 10% tax credit.
Plan whereby shareholders can acquire further share price is quoted daily in a number of shares in the company by using their cash national newspapers and is available on our The tax liability on dividends for UK tax resident dividends to buy additional shares.
For further website at www.
higher-rate taxpayers is an amount equal to information contact Capita Registrars: 32.5% of the aggregate of the dividend and the associated tax credit less the tax credit.
Telephone: 0871 664 0381 Individual Savings Account ISA This equates to a liability for additional tax from within the UK Shareholders may take out an ISA which equal to 25% of the dividend.
Calls cost 10p a minute plus network extras.
includes shares in the company with a provider From 6 April 2010, for taxpayers whose income of their choice.
However, the company has Telephone: 44 0 20 8639 3402 exceeds 150,000 and are subject to tax at the made arrangements for its shareholders and from outside the UK additional rate, the tax liability on dividends is employees with Redmayne Bentley for the an amount equal to 42.5% of the aggregate of provision of an ISA.
Shareholders who are the dividend and the associated tax credit less eligible and who wish to take advantage of Special Requirements the tax credit.
This equates to a liability for this should contact: A black and white large text version of this additional tax equal to 36.11% of the dividend.
Phil Armitage document without pictures is available on Redmayne-Bentley LLP request from the Company Secretary at the Registrars 9 Bond Court address overleaf.
An accessible HTML Leeds summary of the annual report is available on our The Companys registrar is: LS1 2JZ website as well as a PDF version of the full Capita Registrars annual report including financial statements.
Telephone: 0113 200 6433 The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from within the UK Calls cost 10p a minute plus network extras.
Telephone: 44 0 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK Lines are open 8.30am5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 144 information for shareholders continued provIdent fInancIal plc Company details Registered office and contact details: Provident Financial plc No.
1 Godwin Street Bradford West Yorkshire BD1 2SU Telephone: 44 0 1274 351351 Fax: 44 0 1274 730606 Email: enquiries@providentfinancial.
com Company number 668987 advIsers Independent auditors  LLP Benson House 33 Wellington Street Leeds LS1 4JP Financial advisers and stockbrokers J. P. Morgan Cazenove 10 Aldermanbury London EC2V 7RF Solicitors Addleshaw Goddard LLP Sovereign House Sovereign Street Leeds LS1 1HQ Allen & Overy LLP One Bishops Square London E1 6AD Eversheds LLP Bridgewater Place Water Lane Leeds LS11 5DR Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Paper and print specifications this report has been printed on UPM Fine an FSC certified paper containing 100% ECF pulp and manufactured at a mill accredited with the iSO 14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
this report is printed by an FSC and iSO 14001 certified printer using vegetable oil-based inks and an alcohol free 0% iPA process.
the carbon footprint of this publication was calculated and carbon credits bought to offset and make this publication completely CarbonNeutral.
these carbon credits are invested in projects around the world that save equivalent amounts of CO2.
Designed and produced by Salterbaxter Printed by Fulmar Photography by Nick turpin, Andy isaac, Patrick Harrison and Chris Moyse Provident Financial plc No.
1 Godwin Street Bradford BD1 2SU United Kingdom T 44 0 1274 351351 F 44 0 1274 730606 E enquiries@providentfinancial.
