384 Financial statements | Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc We have audited the financial statements of Prudential plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies for the year ended 31 December 2011 set out on pages 163 to Act 2006 382.
The financial reporting framework that has been In our opinion: applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has is applicable law and International Financial Reporting been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial 2006: and reporting framework that has been applied in the the information given in the Directors Report for the financial preparation of the parent company financial statements is year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Matters on which we are required to report by exception accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Companys members those matters we are required to state to in our opinion: them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we received from branches not visited by us: or have formed.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor agreement with the accounting records and returns: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Statement set out on page 383, the directors are responsible for are not made: or the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied we have not received all the information and explanations we that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and require for our audit.
express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing the directors statement, set out on page 130, in relation to going Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement set out in the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Governance report relating to the Companys compliance with A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope specified for our review: and private.
cfm certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: G Bainbridge the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Senior Statutory Auditor accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor t he parent company financial statements have been properly Chartered Accountants prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted London Accounting Practice: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 12 March 2012 the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
