434    EEV  We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information the Scope of the audit of the supplementary information supplementary information of Prudential plc the Company for An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the year ended 31 December 2011 set out on pages 385 to 432. disclosures in the supplementary information sufficient to give The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free preparation of the supplementary information is the European from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the European includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are CFO Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 consistently applied and adequately disclosed: and the together the EEV Principles using the methodology and reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the assumptions set out on pages 391 to 396 and 425 to 430 directors.
In view of the purpose for which the supplementary respectively.
The supplementary information should be read in information has been prepared, however, we did not assess the conjunction with the Group financial statements which are on overall presentation of the supplementary information which pages 163 to 370. would have been required if we were to express an audit opinion under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Opinion on supplementary information that we might state to the Company those matters we have been In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information of the engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 has been properly fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the EEV responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
pages 391 to 396 and 425 to 430 respectively.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 433, the directors have accepted responsibility for the preparation of the supplementary information G Bainbridge on the EEV basis in accordance with the EEV Principles.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc supplementary information in accordance with the terms of our Chartered Accountants engagement and having regard to International Standards on London Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
