42 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Independent auditors report to the members of Cape plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Cape plc Opinion on other matter for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the In our opinion: Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance sheet, th e information given in the Directors report for the the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the financial year for which the Group financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes.
are prepared is consistent with the Group financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied in statements: and their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
th e information given in the Corporate governance statement with respect to internal control and risk Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors management systems and about share capital structures As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities is consistent with the financial statements.
Statement set out on page 41, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Matters on which we are required to report by exception satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following: is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991, we are required on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and th e Directors statement in relation to going concern as set only for the Companys members as a body in accordance out in the Directors Report on page 39: with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or th e part of the Corporate governance statement relating to assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other the Companys compliance with the 9 provisions of the UK person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
c ertain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board of Directors remuneration.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We have reported separately on the parent company financial reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free statements of Cape plc for the year ended 31 December 2011. from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and Stephen Wootten have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: For and on behalf of  LLP the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Uxbridge statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non- 13 April 2012 financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
