2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 85 Independent auditors report to the members of Cape plc We have audited the financial statements of Cape plc for the Opinion on financial statements year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Parent In our opinion the financial statements: Company profit and loss account, the Parent Company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting g ive a true and fair view of the state of the companys framework that has been applied in their preparation is affairs as at 31 December 2011: applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
h ave been properly prepared in accordance with United Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Kingdom Accounting Standards: and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 41, the Directors are responsible for h ave been properly prepared in accordance with the the preparation of the financial statements and for being requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in Opinion on other matter accordance with applicable law and International Standards on In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to the financial year for which financial statements are prepared is comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters only for the Companys members as a body in accordance where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for to you if, in our opinion: no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other p roper accounting records have not been kept by the person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it Company: or may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
th e financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and w e have not received all the information and explanations disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give we require for our audit.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Stephen Wootten policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and For and on behalf of  LLP have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Uxbridge by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial 13 April 2012 statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
