"Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc We have audited the financial statements of The Royal Bank of Scotland the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Group plc the ""company"" and its subsidiaries together the ""Group"" for accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the accounting the company financial statements have been properly prepared in policies, the consolidated and company balance sheets as at 31 accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as December 2011, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company 2006: and statements of changes in equity and the consolidated and company cash the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the flow statements for the year ended 31 December 2011, the related notes requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 1 to 42 on the consolidated financial statements, the related notes 1 to 17 financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation."
on the company financial statements and the information identified as Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB 'audited' in the Risk and balance sheet management section of the As explained in the accounting policies, the Group has prepared financial Business review.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied statements that comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting and with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the IASB.
company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's In our opinion: members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors the part of the Directors' remuneration report described as having report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company Companies Act 2006: and and the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, the information given in the Report of the directors for the financial or for the opinions we have formed.
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of directors' responsibilities, the Matters on which we are required to report by exception directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of the following: and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial opinion: statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from the Auditing Practices Board's Ethical Standards for Auditors.
branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors' Scope of the audit of the financial statements remuneration report described as having been audited are not in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures agreement with the accounting records and returns: or in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether not made: or caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: the we have not received all the information and explanations we reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors require for our audit.
in the preparation of the financial statements: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Group and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: and the directors' statement contained within the Report of the directors the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read in relation to going concern: all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If company's compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Governance Code specified for our review: and inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
certain elements of the Directors remuneration report.
Opinion Kari Hale Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion: for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Group's and of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and London, United Kingdom of the Groups loss for the year then ended: 22 February 2012 Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial information since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
