FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of RSA Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which In our opinion: comprise the consolidated Income Statement, the consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the consolidated Statement of The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has Changes in Equity, the consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act consolidated Statement of Cashflows and the related notes on pages 76 2006 and to 141.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their The information given in the Directors Report for the financial year preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent to you if, in our opinion: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
not made or We have not received all the information and explanations we Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the The Directors statement, contained within the Directors Report, consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and in relation to going concern International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Standards for Auditors.
Governance Code specified for our review and Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board Scope of the audit of the financial statements on Directors remuneration.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Other matters financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting statements of RSA Insurance Group plc for the year ended policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been 31 December 2011 and on the information in the Directors consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP we consider the implications for our report.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK Opinion on financial statements 22 February 2012 In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 75
