INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of RSA Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Parent Company statement of comprehensive income, the Parent Company statement of changes in equity, the Parent Company statement of financial position, the Parent Company statement of cashflows and the related notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Parent Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Parent Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Parent Company and the Parent Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us or The Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matters We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of RSA Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having being audited.
Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 22 February 2012 142 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
