INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements of Scottish Mortgage Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Investment Trust PLC for the period ended 31 March 2011 set out on Act 2006 pages 32 to 49.
The financial reporting framework that has been In our opinion: applied in their preparation is applicable law and UK Accounting the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in 2006: and accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent Companys members those matters we are required to state to them with the financial statements.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Matters on which we are required to report by exception anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a We have nothing to report in respect of the following: body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, formed.
in our opinion: Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set adequate for our audit have not been received from branches out on page 30, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of not visited by us: or the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true the financial statements and the part of the Directors and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with accordance with applicable law and International Standards on the accounting records and returns: or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements we have not received all the information and explanations we A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements require for our audit.
is provided on the APBs website at www.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 24, in relation to going Opinion on Financial Statements concern: In our opinion the financial statements: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the at 31 March 2011 and of its net return for the year then ended: June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Gareth Horner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Edinburgh 12 May 2011 SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31
