Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of St. Jamess Place plc We have audited the group financial statements of St. Jamess Place Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Act 2006 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated In our opinion: Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Financial the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related year for which the group financial statements are prepared is notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in consistent with the group financial statements: their preparation is applicable law and International Financial the information given in the Corporate Governance Report set Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
out on pages 56 to 66 in the Annual Report and Accounts with respect to internal control and risk management systems and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Statements.
Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Financial Statements set out on pages 65 and 66, the directors Matters on which we are required to report by exception areresponsible for the preparation of the group financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of the following: and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group if, in our opinion: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those not made: or standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards we have not received all the information and explanations we Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 the directors statement, set out in the Directors Report, in of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We relation to going concern: do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and by our prior consent in writing.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the parent company financial assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31 December misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 2011 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the that is described as having been audited.
groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Craig Gentle Senior Statutory Auditor financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and for and on behalf of  LLP non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Bristol statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material 21 February 2012 misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for a The financial statements are published on the website of St. Jamess Place plc, www.
maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Opinion on financial statements financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
In our opinion the group financial statements: b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
31December 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
