Independent Auditors Report to the Members of St. Jamess Place plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which Act 2006 comprise the Balance Sheet of the Parent Company and the related In our opinion: notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 2006: and Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors prepared is consistent with the parent company financial As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors statements.
Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Financial Statements set out on pages 65 and 66, the directors are Matters on which we are required to report by exception responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent opinion: company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards from branches not visited by us: or Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only agreement with the accounting records and returns: or for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We not made: or do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for we have not received all the information and explanations we any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is require for our audit.
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Scope of the audit of the financial statements St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Craig Gentle Senior Statutory Auditor misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an for and on behalf of  LLP assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied Bristol and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting 21 February 2012 estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the a.
The financial statements are published on the website of St. Jamess Place plc, www.
In addition, we read all the financial and maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the directors: non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
If we become aware of any apparent material b.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
126 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
