Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Directors of St. Jamess Place plc the Company on the Supplementary Information on European Embedded Value Basis We have audited the Supplementary Information on the European Scope of the audit of the Supplementary Information Embedded Value Basis for the year ended 31 December 2011 that An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and comprise the Consolidated Statement of Income European disclosures in the Supplementary Information sufficient to give Embedded Value Basis, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity reasonable assurance that the Supplementary Information is free from European Embedded Value Basis, Consolidated Statement of material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This Financial Position European Embedded Value and the related notes includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are the Supplementary Information, which has been prepared in appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently accordance with the European Embedded Value EEV basis set applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant outin Note I Basis of Preparation and which should be read in accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall conjunction with the Groups financial statements.
presentation of the Supplementary Information.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Supplementary Information.
If we become aware of any apparent Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for preparing the material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Supplementary Information on the EEV basis in accordance with the implications for our report.
EEV basis set out in Note I Basis of Preparation.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Supplementary Information Opinion on the Supplementary Information in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on In our opinion, the Supplementary Information for the year ended Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply 31December 2011 has been properly prepared in all material respects with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
in accordance with the European Embedded Value basis set out in Note I Basis of Preparation.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys directors as a body in accordance with our letter of engagement dated 4 January 2011 and for no other purpose.
We do  LLP not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any Chartered Accountants other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown Bristol orinto whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 21 February 2012 prior consent in writing.
a The Supplementary information is published on the website of St. Jamess Place plc, www.
The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the audit work does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Supplementary Information since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Supplementary Information may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
