Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Tullett Prebon Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of financial year for which the Group Financial Statements are Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related Notes 1 to 40.
The financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is We have nothing to report in respect of the following: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the are not made: or Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest we have not received all the information and explanations we extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility require for our audit.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: have formed.
the directors statement, contained within the Corporate Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Governance Report, in relation to going concern: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the Financial Statements and for being satis ed that they give a true Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review: and on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards directors remuneration.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Statements of Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended 31 December disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable 2011 and on the information in the Report on Directors assurance that the financial statements are free from material Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Manbhinder Rana F. C. A.
Senior Statutory Auditor the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and for and on behalf of adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of Deloitte LLP the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor non financial information in the annual report to identify material London inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we United Kingdom become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 6 March 2012 inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its pro t for the year then ended: h ave been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 45 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review
