Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of Tullett Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Prebon plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the In our opinion: Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Act 2006: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the information given in the Directors Report for the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. financial year for which the Parent Company Financial Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Companys members those matters we are required to state to Company Financial Statements.
them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Matters on which we are required to report by exception to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in have formed.
our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent received from branches not visited by us: or Company Financial Statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the an opinion on the Parent Company Financial Statements in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and we have not received all the information and explanations disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable we require for our audit.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Other matter assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently of Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended 31 December 2011. applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Manbhinder Rana F. C. A.
Senior Statutory Auditor presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all for and on behalf of the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Deloitte LLP statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications London for our report.
United Kingdom 6 March 2012 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 89 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review
