64 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CENTRICA PLC We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes and supplementary information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 51 in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial Statements of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
John Maitland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 February 2012
