Financial statements Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Independent auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts to the members of BP p. l. c. We have audited the consolidated financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the group income statement, the group statement of comprehensive income, the group statement of changes in equity, the group balance sheet, the group cash ow statement and the related notes 1 to 45.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 174, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
"Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: t HJWF B USVF BOE GBJS WJFX PG UIF TUBUF PG UIF HSPVQ T BGGBJST BT BU %FDFNCFS BOE PG JUT QSPmU GPS UIF ZFBS UIFO FOEFE t IBWF CFFO QSPQFSMZ QSFQBSFE JO BDDPSEBODF XJUI '34 BT BEPQUFE CZ UIF &VSPQFBO 6OJPO BOE t IBWF CFFO QSFQBSFE JO BDDPSEBODF XJUI UIF SFRVJSFNFOUT PG UIF $PNQBOJFT ""DU BOE ""SUJDMF PG UIF ""4 3FHVMBUJPO Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the group in addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB."
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Emphasis of matter significant uncertainty over provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill In forming our opinion we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in Notes 2, 36 and 43 to the financial statements concerning the provisions, future expenditures for which reliable estimates cannot be made and other contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill significant event.
The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all obligations relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty and the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on many factors, including any determination of BPs culpability based on any findings of negligence, gross negligence or wilful misconduct.
Actual costs could ultimately be signicantly higher or lower than those recorded in relation to all obligations relating to the oil spill.
Our opinion is not qualied in respect of these matters.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: t DFSUBJO EJTDMPTVSFT PG EJSFDUPST SFNVOFSBUJPO TQFDJmFE CZ MBX BSF OPU NBEF PS t XF IBWF OPU SFDFJWFE BMM UIF JOGPSNBUJPO BOE FYQMBOBUJPOT XF SFRVJSF GPS PVS BVEJU Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: t UIF EJSFDUPST TUBUFNFOU TFU PVU PO QBHF 174, in relation to going concern: t UIF QBSU PG UIF #1 CPBSE QFSGPSNBODF SFQPSU SFMBUJOH UP UIF DPNQBOZ T DPNQMJBODF XJUI UIF OJOF QSPWJTJPOT PG UIF 6, $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF $PEF specified for our review: and t DFSUBJO FMFNFOUT PG UIF SFQPSU UP TIBSFIPMEFST CZ UIF #PBSE PO EJSFDUPST SFNVOFSBUJPO Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Ernst & Young LLP Allister Wilson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 6 March 2012 The maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. website are the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
This page does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as led with the SEC.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 175
