Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 53 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Chemring Group Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Chemring Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2011 which comprise the Companies Act 2006 Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow consistent with the Group financial statements.
Statement, the Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the related Notes 1 to 36.
The financial reporting framework Matters on which we are required to report that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and by exception International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in in our opinion: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law Companys members those matters we are required to state to are not made: or them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest we have not received all the information and explanations we extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility require for our audit.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: have formed.
the directors statement contained within the Statement on Corporate Governance in relation to going concern: Respective responsibilities of directors the part of the Statement on Corporate Governance relating and auditors to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review: and the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on directors remuneration.
on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Other matters We have reported separately on the parent company financial standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards statements of Chemring Group PLC for the year ended APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
31 October 2011 and on the information in the Directors Scope of the audit of the financial statements Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Nigel Mercer ACA Senior Statutory Auditor misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and London, United Kingdom adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting 24 January 2012 estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 October 2011 and of its pro t for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
