Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 3 Accounts 2011 133 to 184 8231 Accounts 2011 13 06 2011 11:53 Page 179 REPORT OF THE AUDITOR Independent Auditor Report to the Members of The British Land Company PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the parent company financial statements of The British Land In our opinion: Company PLC for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the parent The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has company balance sheet, and the related notes a to k. The financial reporting been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted The information given in the Directors Report for the financial year Accounting Practice.
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been Matters on which we are required to report by exception undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial accounting records and returns: or statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial not made: or statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the We have not received all the information and explanations we require Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial British Land Company PLC for the year ended 31 March 2011. statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Simon Letts BA FCA Senior Statutory Auditor estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial London, United Kingdom statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 22 May 2011 or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our Report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2011: Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 179
