Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 3 Accounts 2011 133 to 184 8231 Accounts 2011 13 06 2011 11:52 Page 167 REPORT OF THE AUDITOR Independent Auditor Report to the Members of The British Land Company PLC Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the group financial statements of The British Land Company In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial PLC for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the consolidated income year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the statement, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of comprehensive Group financial statements.
income, consolidated statement of cash flows, consolidated statement of changes in equity, and the related notes 1 to 25.
The financial reporting framework that Matters on which we are required to report by exception has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been made: or undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility for our audit.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The Directors statement contained within the Corporate Governance Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Section in relation to going concern: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance specified for our review: with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards remuneration.
APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures of The British Land Company PLC for the year ended 31March 2011 and in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by as having been audited.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Simon Letts BA FCA Senior Statutory Auditor in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our Report.
London, United Kingdom 22 May 2011 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31March 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 167
