Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Report of the Audit Committee Membership The Committee is chaired by Stephen Young, who took over the role from Simon Neathercoat on 1 April 2011.
Stuart Corbyn, Robert Farnes and June fide Moller served on the Committee throughout the year and Donald Newell served until his retirement in May 2011.
Simon Neathercoat stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2011.
All members are considered independent by the Company, having no day-to-day involvement with the Company.
Stephen Young is a qualified accountant and considered to have appropriate recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has access to further financial expertise at the Companys expense, if required.
Roles and responsibilities The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Meetings The Committee met four times during the year to discharge its responsibilities.
Meetings are attended by the Groups external Auditors, independent property valuers CBRE and members of the Groups senior management when invited.
Work of the Committee During the year, the Committee has carried out the following: reviewed the interim and annual financial statements and considered the appropriateness of the accounting policies used, assumptions and judgements adopted and estimates made: reviewed the Groups published interim management statements: held meetings with the Groups external valuers prior to the interim and annual results: reviewed the scope of the annual audit and the level of associated fees: considered the adequacy of the Auditors statement of independence: monitored the operation of the Groups policy regarding the use of the external Auditor for non-audit work.
This policy, which prevents the Auditor being appointed for any non-audit work with fees above 25,000 without the Committee being consulted, helps protect the Auditors independence and objectivity: after due consideration of the conduct of the audit recommended the re-appointment of the Groups external Auditor: considered the need for an internal audit function: reviewed the Groups conflict of interest register: considered the procedures to be introduced to comply with the Bribery Act and recommended their approval to the Board: recommended a change in the Groups accounting policy for interest whereby from 1 January 2011 interest on development schemes would be capitalised: reviewed an internal report on the Groups control procedures over development expenditure: and noted that the accounts for the Groups pension schemes had been audited and that no matters were raised.
Stephen G. Young Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 March 2012 97 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of Derwent London plc We have audited the financial statements of Derwent London plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise Group income statement, Group and parent Company statements of comprehensive income, Group and parent Company balance sheets, Group and parent Company statements of changes in equity, Group and parent Company cashflow statements and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
