INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OFCOBHAM PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cobham plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception forthe year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the parent company We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the balance sheet, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: accounting policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Accounting Practice.
notvisited by us: or The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out records and returns: or onpage 58, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true made:or and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the We have not received all the information and explanations we require parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law forouraudit.
andInternational Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards requireus to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Other matter forAuditors.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements ofCobhamplc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of theCompanies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving theseopinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to Stuart Watson any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may Senior Statutory Auditor come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Scope of the audit of the financial statements London An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 6 March 2012 inthe financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused byfraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness ofsignificant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware ofany apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs asat31December 2011: Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements .
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Parent company financial statements Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 109
