INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TOTHEMEMBERSOFCOBHAM PLC We have audited the Group financial circumstances and have been Matters on which we are required statements of Cobham plc for the year consistently applied and adequately to report by exception ended 31 December 2011 which disclosed: the reasonableness of We have nothing to report in respect comprise the consolidated income significant accounting estimates ofthe following: statement, the consolidated statement madeby the Directors: and the overall of comprehensive income, the presentation of the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 consolidated balance sheet, the In addition, we read all the financial and wearerequired to report to you consolidated statement of changes non-financial information in the Annual if, inouropinion: inequity, the consolidated cash flow Report to identify material Certain disclosures of Directors statement, the accounting policies and inconsistencies with the audited remuneration specified by law the related notes.
The financial reporting financial statements.
If we become arenotmade: or framework that has been applied in their aware of any apparent material We have not received all the preparation is applicable law and misstatements or inconsistencies we information and explanations International Financial Reporting consider the implications for our report.
werequire for our audit: or Standards IFRS as adopted by A corporate governance statement theEuropean Union.
Opinion on financial statements hasnot been prepared by the In our opinion the Group financial parentcompany.
Respective responsibilities of statements: Directors and auditors Under the Listing Rules we are required As explained more fully in the Statement Give a true and fair view of the state to review: of Directors responsibilities set out on ofthe Groups affairs as at 31 The Statement of Directors page 58, the Directors are responsible December 2011 and of its profit and responsibilities, set out on page 58, for the preparation of the Group cash flows for the year then ended: inrelation to going concern: financial statements and for being Have been properly prepared in The part of the Corporate governance satisfied that they give a true and fair accordance with IFRS as adopted section relating to the Companys view.
Our responsibility is to audit and bythe European Union: and compliance with the nine provisions of express an opinion on the Group Have been prepared in accordance the UK Corporate Governance Code financial statements in accordance withthe requirements of the specified for our review: and withapplicable law and International Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 Certain elements of the report to Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
shareholders by the Board on Directors Those standards require us to comply remuneration.
with the Auditing Practices Boards Opinion on other matter Ethical Standards for Auditors.
prescribed by the Companies Other matter Act2006 We have reported separately This report, including the opinions, In our opinion: ontheparent company financial hasbeen prepared for and only for statements ofCobham plc for the theCompanys members as a body in The information given in the Directors yearended31December 2011 and accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 report for the financial year for which ontheinformation in the Directors oftheCompanies Act 2006 and for the Group financial statements are remuneration report that is described noother purpose.
We do not, in giving prepared is consistent with the Group ashaving been audited.
these opinions, accept or assume financial statements.
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is Stuart Watson shown or into whose hands it may come Senior Statutory Auditor save where expressly agreed by our prior for and on behalf of consent in writing.
 LLP Scope of the audit of the Chartered Accountants and financialstatements StatutoryAuditors An audit involves obtaining evidence London about the amounts and disclosures in 6 March 2012 the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Group financial statements Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 59 59
