London & Stamford Property Plc Report and Accounts 2011 29 Independent auditors report to the members of London & Stamford Property Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of London & Opinion on other matter prescribed Stamford Property Plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which  comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance In our opinion the information given in the Directors report Sheet, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group forthefinancial year for which the Group financial statements are Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation Matters on which we are required to report by exception isapplicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies if, in our opinion: Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law state to the Companys members those matters we are required are not made: or to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
we have not received all the information and explanations we To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or require for our audit.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Directors statement in relation to going concern: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the part of the corporate governance statement relating to theCompanys compliance with the nine provisions of the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and onDirectors remuneration.
express an opinion on the Group financial statements in Other matters accordance with applicable law and International Standards on We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply statements of London & Stamford Property Plc for the period with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards ended 31 March 2011 and on the information in the Directors forAuditors.
remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is Russell Field Senior Statutory Auditor provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor private.
London United Kingdom Opinion on financial statements 26 May 2011 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales In our opinion the Group financial statements: withregistered number OC305127.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at31 March 2011 and its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Overview
