64 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Aegis Group plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Aegis Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
The maintenance and integrity of the Aegis Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 50, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 51 to 55 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 49, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Aegis Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Richard Addison Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 14 March 2012
