SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF KESA ELECTRICALS PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc Opinion on other matter prescribed by the for the year ended 30 April 2011 which comprise the Group income Companies Act2006 statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the statement of changes in equity, the Group balance sheet, the Group financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared cash ow statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting is consistent with the Group financial statements.
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Matters on which we are required to report by exception by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set in our opinion: out on page 42, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on are not made: or the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and we have not received all the information and explanations we International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require for our audit.
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the Directors statement, in relation to going concern: for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Combined Code specified for our review: and for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Directors remuneration.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the parent company financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 30 April 2011 in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether is described as having been audited.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Keith Harrington Senior Statutory Auditor In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in for and on behalf of  LLP the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material London misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for 22 June 2011 our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 April 2011 and of its profit and cash ows for the year thenended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 43
