INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ENQUEST PLC We have audited the parent Company financial statements Opinion on financial statements of EnQuest PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 which In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys 1 to 13.
The financial reporting framework that has been affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year applied in their preparation is applicable law and United then ended: Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally have been properly prepared in accordance with United Accepted Accounting Practice.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements This report is made solely to the Companys members, of the Companies Act 2006. as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies so that we might state to the Companys members those Act 2006 matters we are required to state to them in an auditors In our opinion: report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility audited has been properly prepared in accordance with to anyone other than the Company and the Companys the Companies Act 2006: and members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, the information given in the Directors Report for the or for the opinions we have formed.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor financialstatements.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 87, the directors are Matters on which we are required to report by exception responsible for the preparation of the parent Company We have nothing to report in respect of the following financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express report to you if, in our opinion: an opinion on the parent Company financial statements in adequate accounting records have not been kept by the accordance with applicable law and International Standards parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us not been received from branches not visited by us: or to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical the parent Company financial statements and the part of Standards for Auditors.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts law are not made: or and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give we have not received all the information and explanations reasonable assurance that the financial statements are we require for our audit.
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the Other matter accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys We have reported separately on the Group financial circumstances and have been consistently applied and statements of EnQuest PLC for the year ended adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 31 December 2011. accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read Ernst & Young LLP all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Gary Donald Senior Statutory Auditor Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware London of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 26 March 2012 we consider the implications for our report.
