ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 71 Independent Auditors Report We have audited the Consolidated financial applied and adequately disclosed: the Under the Listing Rules we are required statements of Eurasian Natural Resources reasonableness of significant accounting to review: Corporation PLC for the year ended estimates made by the Directors: and The Directors Statement, set out on page 31 December 2011 which comprise: the overall presentation of the financial 69, in relation to going concern: the Consolidated Income Statement: statements.
In addition, we read all the The part of the Corporate Governance Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive financial and non-financial information Statement relating to the Companys Income: Consolidated Balance Sheet: in the Annual Report to identify material compliance with the nine provisions of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: inconsistencies with the audited financial UK Corporate Governance Code specified Consolidated Statement of Changes in statements.
If we become aware of any for our review: and Equity: and the related notes.
The financial apparent material misstatements or reporting framework that has been applied inconsistencies we consider the implications Certain elements of the report to in their preparation is applicable law and for our report.
shareholders by the Board on Directors International Financial Reporting Standards remuneration.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on financial statements Other matters In our opinion the Consolidated financial Respective responsibilities statements: of Directors and auditors We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Eurasian As explained more fully in the Statement of Give a true and fair view of the state of the Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the Directors Responsibilities set out on page Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 year ended 31 December 2011 and on the 69, the Directors are responsible for the and of its profit and cash flows for the year information in the Remuneration Report that preparation of the Consolidated financial then ended: is described as having been audited.
statements and for being satisfied that they Have been properly prepared in give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility accordance with IFRS as adopted by the is to audit and express an opinion on the European Union: and Consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Have been prepared in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK the requirements of the Companies Act and Ireland.
Those standards require us to 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Charles Joseland comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Senior Statutory Auditor Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Opinion on other matters prescribed for and on behalf of by the Companies Act 2006  LLP This report, including the opinions, has been In our opinion, the information given in prepared for and only for the Companys Chartered Accountants and the Directors Report for the financial members as a body in accordance with Statutory Auditors year for which the Consolidated financial Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act statements are prepared is consistent with 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, London the Consolidated financial statements.
in giving these opinions, accept or assume 16 April 2012 responsibility for any other purpose or to any Matters on which we are required to other person to whom this report is shown report by exception or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior We have nothing to report in respect of consent in writing.
the following: Scope of the audit of the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are statements required to report to you if, in our opinion: An audit involves obtaining evidence about Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable not made: assurance that the financial statements are We have not received all the information free from material misstatement, whether and explanations we require for our audit: caused by fraud or error.
This includes an or assessment of: whether the accounting A Corporate Governance Statement has policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Consolidated financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
72 Unlocking Value W Financial Statements Reserves 73 Consolidated Income Statement 137 Independent Expert Ore 74 Consolidated Statement of Reserves Report Comprehensive Income 140 Ore Reserves Mineral 75 Consolidated Balance Sheet Resources Estimates 76 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Corporate Information 77 Consolidated Statement of 148 Gl ossary Changes in Equity 153 Shareholder Information 78 Notes to the Consolidated 156 Financial Summary Financial Statements 131 Parent Company Independent Auditors Report 132 P arent Company Balance Sheet 13 3 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements www.
