Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Euromoney have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Institutional Investor PLC for the year ended September 30 2011 the European Union: and which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 32.
The Opinion on other matter prescribed by the financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation Companies Act 2006 is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the adopted by the European Union.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Matters on which we are required to report by audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys exception members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the following: report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, our opinion: or for the opinions we have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor not made: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, we have not received all the information and explanations we require the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial for our audit.
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards the directors statement contained within the Directors Report in APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Scope of the audit of the financial statements companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Governance Code specified for our review: and in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether directors remuneration.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have Other matter been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC for the year ended September 30 presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the 2011 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify described as having been audited.
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies Robert Matthews Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP we consider the implications for our report.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom Opinion on financial statements November 9 2011 In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at September 30 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: 53 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Independent Auditors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
