independent Auditors report Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF EXILLON ENERGY PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Exillon Energy plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the consolidated Statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cashflows and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements is International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 36 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the directors for stewardship purposes to assist the directors to discharge their obligations under Section 4 of the Disclosure and Transparency rules issued by the United Kingdoms Financial Services Authority in accordance with our engagement letter dated 18 november 2012 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come including without limitation under any contractual obligations of the company, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
38 Exillon Energy independent Auditors report Scope of the audit of the consolidated financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on consolidated financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: and have been properly prepared in accordance with iFrSs as issued by the international Accounting Standards Board.
Matter on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the part of the corporate governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review by the listing rules of the UK Financial Services Authority.
 llp chartered Accountants london 25 April 2012 39
