GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc We have audited the Group financial statements of GKN plc for the year Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Consolidated Income In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Matters on which we are required to report by exception preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law set out on page 72, the Directors are responsible for the preparation are not made: or of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they we have not received all the information and explanations we give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express require for our audit.
an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing the Directors statement, set out on page 35, in relation to going Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
concern: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, Governance Code specified for our review: and in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Directors remuneration.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the parent Company financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and statements of GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as assurance that the financial statements are free from material having been audited.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material Ian Chambers inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become Senior Statutory Auditor aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies for and on behalf of  LLP we consider the implications for our report.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: 27 February 2012 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
