Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN independent AUditoRS RepoRt to tHe membeRS of GlencoRe inteRnAtionAl plc We have audited the group financial statements the financial Separate opinion in relation to iFRS as issued by the iaSB statements of Glencore International plc for the year ended As explained in the accounting policies to the financial state- 31 December 2011 which comprise the Consolidated Statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligament of Income, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehention to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, sive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accountthe Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated ing Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 30. statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial matters on which we are required to report by exception Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to rebody, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey port to you if, in our opinion: Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent state to the companys members those matters we are required company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
been received from branches not visited by us: or To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or asthe financial statements are not in agreement with the acsume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the counting records and returns: or companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this rewe have not received all the information and explanations we port, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors ResponsiCorporate Governance Statement relating to the companys bilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Govfinancial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true ernance Code specified for our review.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable Other matters law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practo be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with tices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the company.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reviewed the directors statement, contained within disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reathe Directors Report, in relation to going concern as if the sonable assurance that the financial statements are free from company had been incorporated in the UK and have nothing to material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This report to you in that respect.
includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, David Quinlin we read all the financial and non-financial information in the anfor and on behalf of Deloitte LLP nual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent mateLondon, UK rial misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
26 March 2012 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by European Union: have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
