53 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Independent auditors report to the members of Greggs plc We have audited the accounts of Greggs plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 set out on pages 57 to 94.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the Parent Company accounts, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 52, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the accounts A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the APBs website at www.
cfm Opinion on accounts In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the Parent Company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the accounts are prepared is consistent with the accounts.
54 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors Statement, set out on page 52 in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 32 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
Nick Plumb Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Quayside House 110 Quayside Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 3DX 14 March 2012 We sold over 300 million freshly baked savouries in 2011.
All our confectionery is hand finished.
In 2011 we sold 5.5 million of our Belgian buns.
