financial statements | Independent AudItorS report on the ConSolIdAted FInAnCIAl StAtementS Independent Auditors report to the members of hays plc opinion on financial statements We have audited the Group financial statements of Hays plc for In our opinion the Group financial statements: the year ended 30 June 2011 which comprises the Consolidated give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 30 June 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework adopted by the European Union: and that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the consistent with the Group financial statements.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest matters on which we are required to report by exception extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we in our opinion: have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law respective responsibilities of directors and Auditors are not made: or As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group we have not received all the information and explanations we financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and require for our audit.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those the directors statement contained within the Directors Report standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards in relation to going concern: APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board assurance that the financial statements are free from material of directors remuneration.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to other matter the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and We have reported separately on the parent Company financial adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting statements of Hays plc for the year ended 30 June 2011 and on the estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the information in the directors Remuneration Report that is described financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonas having been audited.
financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of deloitte llp Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 31 August 2011 58
