Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Howden have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs Joinery Group Plc for the 52 weeks ended 24 December as adopted by the European Union: and 2011 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, have been prepared in accordance with the the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 30.
The financial reporting OPINION ON OTHER maTTER PRESCRIBED By framework that has been applied in their preparation THE COmPaNIES aCT 2006 is applicable law and International Financial Reporting In our opinion the information given in the Directors Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Report for the financial year for which the Group financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, statements are prepared is consistent with the Group as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys maTTERS ON WHICH WE aRE REquIRED TO members those matters we are required to state to them REPORT By ExCEPTION in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report and the Companys members as a body, for our audit to you if, in our opinion: work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or RESPECTIvE RESPONSIBIlITIES OF DIRECTORS aND auDITOR we have not received all the information and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities explanations we require for our audit.
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our the directors statement, contained within the responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Corporate Governance Report, in relation to going Group financial statements in accordance with applicable concern: law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code SCOPE OF THE auDIT OF THE FINaNCIal specified for our review: and STaTEmENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts certain elements of the report to shareholders by the and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to Board on directors remuneration.
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by OTHER maTTER fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether We have reported separately on the parent company the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups financial statements of Howden Joinery Group Plc for circumstances and have been consistently applied and the 52 weeks ended 24 December 2011 and on the adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant information in the Directors Remuneration Report that accounting estimates made by the directors: and the is described as having been audited.
overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in John adam Senior statutory auditor the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with for and on behalf of Deloitte llP the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of Chartered accountants and Statutory auditor any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
london, united kingdom 29 February 2012 OPINION ON FINaNCIal STaTEmENTS In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 24 December 2011 and of its profit for the 111 52 weeks then ended:
