Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 76 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Imperial Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2011 Companies Act 2006 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of the financial year for which the Group financial statements are Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
the Accounting Policies and related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Matters on Which We Are Required to Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Report by Exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective Responsibilities of Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you and Auditors if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation are not made: or of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that we have not received all the information and explanations we they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and require for our audit.
express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to the Directors statement in the Corporate Governance Report, comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards in relation to going concern: and for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other on directors remuneration.
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other Matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended Scope of the Audit of the 30 September 2011 and on the information in the Directors Financial Statements Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: David Charles Senior Statutory Auditor the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made for and on behalf of  LLP by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonBristol financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 1 November 2011 inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011
