FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Informa plc Independent Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC We have audited the Group financial statements the OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements of Informa plc for the year ended In our opinion the financial statements: 31December2011 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive r give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Groups and Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation r have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
r have been properly prepared in accordance with the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Companies Jersey Law 1991. in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might BY EXCEPTION state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report to you if, in our opinion: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
r proper accounting records have not been kept by the RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR Parent Company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation r the financial statements are not in agreement with the of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give accounting records and returns: or a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an r we have not received all the information and explanations opinion on the financial statements in accordance with we require for our audit.
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance Code specified for our review.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and OTHER MATTERS disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been applied to the Company.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the We have reviewed the directors statement, in relation to going reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the concern as if the company had been incorporated in the UK and directors: and the overall presentation of the financial have nothing to report to you in that respect.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Ian Waller inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor London, UK 23 February 2012 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 61
