INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed of Inmarsat plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which by the Companies Act 2006 comprise the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, the In our opinion: Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be preparation is applicable law and International Financial audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the Companies Act 2006: and Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Companies Act 2006. year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Matters on which we are required to report by exception 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters to the Companys members those matters we are required to where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To in our opinion: the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have report, or for the opinions we have formed.
not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by the Parent Company financial statements and for being satis ed law are not made: or that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to we have not received all the information and explanations audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial we require for our audit.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards Other matter require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical We have reported separately on the consolidated financial Standards for Auditors.
statements of Inmarsat plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Stephen Griggs FCA An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Senior statutory auditor and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This London, United Kingdom includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies 6 March 2012 are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
100 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
