2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Inmarsat plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which Companies Act 2006 comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance for the financial year for which the consolidated financial Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 36. financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act if, in our opinion: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by law state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To are not made: or the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume we have not received all the information and explanations we responsibility to anyone other than the company and the require for our audit.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the Directors statement, contained within the Statement on As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Corporate Governance, in relation to going concern: and Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the consolidated financial statements and for being satis ed that the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review: and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board accordance with applicable law and International Standards on on Directors remuneration.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial Scope of the audit of the financial statements statements of Inmarsat plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give that is described as having been audited.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This Stephen Griggs FCA includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are Senior statutory auditor appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the London, United Kingdom Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
6 March 2012 In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its pro t for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
INMARSAT PLC 55 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
