Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of International Power plc We have audited the financial statements of International Power plc for the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the consolidated income In our opinion: statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the related notes 1 to 31, the Company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 17.
The information given in the Directors Report for the financial year The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International financial statements.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Matters on which we are required to report by exception of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in in our opinion: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors branches not visited by us.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the or for the opinions we have formed.
Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor not made.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements We have not received all the information and explanations we require and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility for our audit.
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the Directors statement, contained within the Directors Report, Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
in relation to going concern Scope of the audit of the financial statements the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate on the APBs website at: Governance Code specified for our review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended.
Douglas King Senior Statutory Auditor The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared 7 February 2012 in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
