64 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 FInAnCIAl stAteMents ConsolIDAteD InDepenDent AuDItors report Independent Auditors report to the Members of Interserve plc IntroDuCtIon opInIon on other MAtters presCrIbeD by the We have audited the Group financial statements of Interserve CoMpAnIes ACt 2006 Plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the In our opinion: Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement Act 2006: and of Changes in Equity, and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is the information given in the Directors Report for the financial applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards year for which the financial statements are prepared is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
consistent with the Group financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, MAtters on whICh we Are requIreD to report in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act by exCeptIon 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We have nothing to report in respect of the following: state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or in our opinion: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is or for the opinions we have formed.
not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or respeCtIve responsIbIlItIes oF DIreCtors AnD certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law AuDItors are not made: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement, we have not received all the information and explanations we the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group require for our audit.
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the directors statement contained within the financial review Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices section of the Directors Report in relation to going concern: Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to sCope oF the AuDIt oF the FInAnCIAl the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK stAteMents Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free directors remuneration.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting other MAtters policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and We have reported separately on the parent company financial have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: statements of Interserve Plc for the year ended 31 December 2011. the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Stephen Griggs Senior Statutory Auditor inconsistences we consider the implications for our report.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors opInIon on FInAnCIAl stAteMents London, United Kingdom In our opinion the Group financial statements: 29 February 2012 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
