ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 82 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc We have audited the Consolidated and Company financial Opinion on other matters prescribed by the statements of ITV plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 set Companies Act 2006 out on pages 84 to 134.
In our opinion: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable z the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has Act 2006: and been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial z the information given in the Directors Report for the financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK year for which the financial statements are prepared is Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
if, in our opinion: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and z adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not report, or for the opinions we have formed.
been received from branches not visited by us: or z the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Responsibilities set out on page 79, the directors are responsible for z certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied are not made: or that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, z we have not received all the information and explanations we and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance require for our audit.
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
z the directors statement, set out on page 90, in relation to Scope of the audit of the financial statements going concern: A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements z the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to is provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK private.
cfm Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and z certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board Opinion on financial statements on directors remuneration.
In our opinion: Mark Summerfield Senior Statutory Auditor z the financial statements give a true and fair view of the for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as Chartered Accountant at 31 December 2011 and of the Groups profit for the year 15 Canada Square then ended: London, E14 5GL z the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: 29 February 2012 z the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: z the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
com Stock code: ITV 83 Introduction and Table of Contents In this section...
In preparing these financial statements we continue to apply the principles outlined in the Financial Reporting Councils publication Louder than words to make ITVs financial statements less complex and more relevant to shareholders.
We have grouped notes in sections under three key headings: Results for the year, Operating Assets and Liabilities and Capital Structure and Financing Costs.
Each section sets out the accounting policies applied in producing these notes together with any key judgements and estimates used.
The purpose of this format is to provide readers with a clearer understanding of what drives financial performance of the Group.
Text in boxes provides commentary on each section in plain English.
Keeping it simple... Notes to the financial statements provide additional information required by statute, accounting standards or Listing Rules to explain a particular feature of the financial statements.
The notes which follow will also provide explanations and additional disclosure to assist readers understanding and interpretation of the annual report and the financial statements.
Contents Page Primary statements Consolidated Income Statement 84 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 85 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 86 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 87 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 89 Section 1 Basis of Preparation 90 Section 2 Results for the Year 93 2.1 Profit before tax 93 2.2 Exceptional items 95 2.3 Taxation 96 2.4 Earnings per share 99 Section 3 Operating Assets and Liabilities 101 3.1 Working capital 101 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 103 3.3 Intangible assets 105 3.4 Acquisitions, assets held for sale and disposals 108 3.5 Provisions 109 3.6 Pensions 110 Section 4 Capital Structure and Financing Costs 116 4.1 Net cash debt 116 4.2 Borrowings and held to maturity investments 118 4.3 Derivative financial instruments 120 4.4 Net financing costs 121 4.5 Financial risk factors 122 4.6 Fair value hierarchy 124 4.7 Equity 125 Section 5 Other Notes 128 5.1 Related party transactions 128 5.2 Contingent liabilities 129 5.3 Subsequent events 129 ITV plc Company Financial Statements 130 Financial Record 138 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview
