F FIINAN NANC CIIAL AL S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW WWW.
COM 65 65 Financial statements Independent auditors report To the shareholders of Kentz Corporation Limited Basis of opinion We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Kentz We conducted our audit in accordance with International Corporation Limited the Company and its subsidiaries together Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 which Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement Financial Statements.
It also includes an assessment of the of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related preparation of the Group Financial Statements, and of whether the notes 1 to 34.
These Group Financial Statements have been accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law information and explanations which we considered necessary in 1991 and the terms of our letter of engagement.
Our audit work order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys assurance that the Group Financial Statements are free from members those matters we are required to state to them in an material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as Financial Statements.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and in accordance with the International Financial Reporting the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable Standards, of the state of the Groups affairs as at Jersey law as set out in the Statement of Directors 31 December 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Responsibilities and International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The Directors have complied with the requirements of rules 9.8.
7A of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Matters on which we are required to report by exception Authority in preparing its Annual Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial Statements in to you if, in our opinion: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Financial the financial statements are not in agreement with the Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group accounting records and returns: or Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance we have not received all the information and explanations we with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We also report to you require for our audit.
whether, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys We read other information contained in the Annual Report and compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group Financial Governance Code specified for our review.
The other information comprises the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executive Officers Report, the Corporate Governance Report, Chief Financial Officers Report, Directors Michael Costello Report and the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
We Senior statutory auditor consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any For and on behalf of BDO apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group Dublin, Ireland Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any Registered Auditors other information.
