King sher plc Annual Report Independent auditors report to 106 and Accounts 2010 11 the members of Kingfi sher plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of King sher plc for Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the year ended 29 January 2011 which comprise the Parent Company balance In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the financial year sheet and the related notes 1 to 15.
The financial reporting framework that has for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Company financial statements.
Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or not visited by us: or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting have formed.
records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor made: or As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial our audit.
statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company Other matter financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of King sher Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply plc for the year ended 29 January 2011 and on the information in the Directors with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in Panos Kakoullis Senior Statutory Auditor the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting London, United Kingdom policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have 23 March 2011 been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 29 January 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
