[ 100 ] Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc We have audited the Consolidated and Company financial statements of Lonmin Plc for the year ended 30 September 2011 set out on pages 102 to 148.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 74, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2011 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 75, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement in the Directors Report Governance relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
Robert M. Seale Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London 11 November 2011 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 101 ] Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Roger Phillimore Simon Scott Chairman Chief Financial Officer 11 November 2011 www.
