Section 4: Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPOR T We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Marstons Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 PLC for the period ended 1 October 2011 which comprise the In our opinion: Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting zz the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
zz the information given in the Directors Report for the financial period Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors for which the parent Company financial statements are prepared is As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Matters on which we are required to report by exception the parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: an opinion on the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and zz adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
from branches not visited by us: or zz the parent Company financial statements and the part of the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of with the accounting records and returns: or Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do zz certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any not made: or other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or zz we have not received all the information and explanations we require into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Marstons PLC for the period ended 1 October 2011. the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Keith Harrington by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Senior Statutory Auditor In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in for and on behalf of  LLP the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material Birmingham misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our 30 November 2011 report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: zz give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 1 October 2011: zz have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and zz have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
84 Marstons PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
