Financial Statements inDePenDent AuDitors rePort We have audited the Group financial statements of Marstons PlC for opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies the period ended 1 October 2011 which comprise the Group Income act 2006 Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group In our opinion: Cash Flow Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Statement zz the information given in the Directors Report for the financial period of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law with the Group financial statements: and and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by zz the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set the European union.
out on pages 30 to 33 with respect to internal control and risk respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors management systems and about share capital structures is As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities consistent with the financial statements.
set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Matters on which we are required to report by exception the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a We have nothing to report in respect of the following: true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in and International Standards on Auditing uK and Ireland.
Those our opinion: standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards zz certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are Ethical Standards for Auditors.
not made: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for zz we have not received all the information and explanations we require the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of for our audit: or Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do zz a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any parent Company.
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or under the listing Rules we are required to review: into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
zz the Directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going concern: Scope of the audit of the financial statements zz the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the uK Corporate in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Governance Code specified for our review: and the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the zz certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and Directors remuneration.
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the other matters reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the We have reported separately on the parent Company financial Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In statements of Marstons PlC for the period ended 1 October 2011 and addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited described as having been audited.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
opinion on financial statements Keith harrington In our opinion the Group financial statements: Senior Statutory Auditor zz give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at for and on behalf of  llP 1 October 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the period then Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors ended: Birmingham zz have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by 30 November 2011 the European union: and zz have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
