3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 53 Overview Strategic report Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Corporate responsibility Portfolio and other information A responsible company 3i is committed to acting as a Governance responsible company, aresponsible Good corporate governance is fundamental to 3i and its activities employer and a responsible investor.
and is critical to the delivery of value to our stakeholders.
For full details of our governance structure and processes, please see the We take responsibility for our actions, Corporate Governance section of this report.
carefully consider how others will be Transparency affected by our choices and ensure As a publicly-listed company, 3i operates within a framework offormal legal and regulatory disclosure requirements as well thatour values and ethics are asmeeting the high expectations for transparency of our shareholders, fund investors, staff and the media.
We are integrated into our formal business committed to communicating both our financial and non-financial policies, practices and plans.
performance in a clear, open and comprehensive manner.
Anti-bribery and corruption 3i does not offer, pay or accept bribes and we only work with third parties whose standards of business integrity are substantively consistent with ours.
We expect the businesses we invest in to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and, where appropriate, work towards meeting relevant international standards where these are more stringent.
This includes, in particular, upholding high standards of business integrity, avoiding corruption in all its forms and complying with applicable antibribery, anti-fraud and anti-money laundering laws and regulations.
Environmental impact This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation to report greenhouse gas GHG emissions pursuant This section aims to provide a brief summary of our to Section 7 of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and approachto corporate responsibility.
For more information, please see our Corporate During the year to 31 March 2016, our measured Scope 1 and 2 responsibilityreport, available onour website.
emissions location-based totalled 1,106.6 tCO e. This comprised: 2 Further information on our approach tocorporate FY2015 responsibility, including summaries of relevant policies, Scope FY2016 restated canalso be found on our website.
com  1 2Market-based 544.4 tCO N A 2 1 Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK and emissions from purchased electricity are calculated using the market-based approach using supplier-specic emission factors are reported in tCO rather than 2 tCO2e due to the availability of emission factors.
This is equivalent to 4.0 tCO e per full-time equivalent employee, 2 based on an average of 276 employees during the year 2015: 4.2 tCO e: 271 employees.
2 We have restated the emissions gures for the year to 31 March 2015 to reect improved data collection.
Overall our Scope 1 and 2 emissions decreased by3% in the year.
Our emissions have been veried by an external third party according to the ISO 14064-3 standard.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 54 Strategic report Corporate responsibility We quantify and report our organisational GHG emissions in Community alignment with the World Resources Institutes Greenhouse Gas We focus our charitable activities on the disadvantaged, on young Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and in people and on education.
Charities are supported on the basis of alignment with the new Scope 2 Guidance, which is the most their effectiveness and impact.
We also support staff giving and significant update to the Corporate Standard since its inception.
Our charitable giving for the year to 31 March 2016 totalled 324,009.
For more We consolidate our organisational boundary according to the information, see our Corporate responsibility report.
operational control approach, which includes all our ofces.
Wehave adopted a materiality threshold of 5% for GHG reporting purposes.
The GHG sources that constituted our operational A responsible employer boundary for the year to 31 March 2016 are: Human rights Scope 1: natural gas combustion within boilers and fuel Whilst 3i does not have a formal human rights policy, our policies combustion within leased vehicles: and are consistent with  human rights principles.
In particular, 3i is an equal opportunities employer and Scope 2: purchased electricity and heat consumption for our has clear grievance and disciplinary procedures, an employee own use.
assistance programme and an independent, external whistle In some cases, where data is missing, values have been estimated blowing hotline service.
using either extrapolation of available data or data from the We are committed to ensuring that the businesses we invest in previous year as a proxy.
comply with all applicable laws in relation to their employees The new Scope 2 Guidance requires that we quantify and report amongst other things and, where appropriate, that they work Scope 2 emissions according to two different methodologies towards meeting relevant international standards such as the dual reporting : i the location-based method, using average ILOFundamental Conventions where those are more stringent.
emissions factors for the country in which the reported operations Summaries of relevant 3i policies, including our policies on take place: and ii the market-based method, which uses the people, recruitment and selection, equal opportunities and actual emissions factors of the energy procured.
diversity, health and safety and responsible investment are available at www.
3i will publish on its website a slavery Whilst we have a very low footprint on the environment, we are and human trafcking statement, as required by section 54 of the committed to reducing it further.
In our London ofce, where Modern Slavery Act 2015, on or before 30 September 2016. approximately two-thirds of our employees are based, we are supplied by EDF Energy, which has a cleaner fuel mix than the UK At 31 March 2016, 3i had a total of 281 employees calculatedunder average.
The dual reporting of our emissions demonstrates the the investment basis.
The breakdown by gender is as follows: impact that procuring energy from suppliers with lower emissions number Total Male Female has on our greenhouse gas emissions, as reected in our lower All 3i employees 281 174 107 Scope 2 market-based emissions gure.
1 3i Group Directors 853 As part of compliance with the UK Energy Savings Opportunities 2 Senior managers 46 36 10 Scheme ESOS, we have identied further savings which couldlead to a reduction in electricity consumption at our 1 Includes non-executive Directors who are not 3i employees.
2 Senior managers excludes Simon Borrows and Julia Wilson who are included as Directors of 3i Group plc and includes 28 people who were Our efforts to minimise our carbon footprint have been directors of undertakings included in the consolidated Group accounts, of whom 24 are male and 4 are female.
recognised externally and 3i was the recipient of a Bronze Award from the London Mayors 2015 Business Energy Challenge, which recognises businesses efforts to cut energy use from their London locations.
We report our GHG emissions and climate change data to the CDP.
In addition to this, we are preparing to report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Sustainability Reporting Framework, G4, at the Core level for the year ending 31 March 2017.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 55 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Employee engagement UNPRI Honest communication with our staff is important to us.
To this Since 2011, we have been signatories to the UN Principles for end, we encourage a culture of open communication between Responsible Investment.
We also have a clear and comprehensive our employees and senior and executive management.
We Responsible Investment policy which is embedded into our benefit from being a small organisation, operating in a relatively investment and portfolio monitoring processes.
In our experience, at structure, with few hierarchies.
The members of our Executive companies with high ESG standards are typically better run, Committee have an open-door policy and know most employees create fewer business risks and ultimately deliver better value.
Our Responsible Investment policy We promote and facilitate the ownership of 3i shares among Our detailed Responsible Investment policy sets out the employees through variable compensation or share investment businesses and activities in which 3i will not invest, as well as plans.
As a result, most of our employees are shareholders in the minimum standards in relation to ESG matters which we expect Company and feel invested in the success of the organisation.
potential new portfolio companies to meet, or to commit to meeting over a reasonable time period.
We pride ourselves on the engagement and the sense of ownership we have fostered over the years, which has resulted in We will use our inuence as an investor to promote a commitment low unplanned turnover rates.
in our investee companies to: Graduate training scheme comply, as a minimum, with applicable local and international We launched our new graduate recruitment scheme in 2015, laws and regulations and, where appropriate, relevant which is designed to develop our next generation of world-class international standards such as the IFC Performance Standards investment professionals and business leaders.
Our first five and the ILO Fundamental Conventions, where these are more graduate analysts joined us in 2015, and a further five will join us in stringent than applicable laws: September 2016.
The programme consists of comprehensive and mitigate any adverse environmental and social impacts and high-quality training, followed by rotations through each of our enhance positive effects on the environment, workers and Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management businesses relevant stakeholders: and as well as our Strategy and Finance teams.
uphold high standards of business integrity and good corporate governance.
A responsible investor As a company, we have a relatively small footprint on many Our Responsible Investment policy has been integrated into our corporate responsibility issues.
However, with assets under investment and portfolio management processes and procedures management of 14 billion, we recognise that our decisions as an and is supported by detailed guidance notes, a global network investor potentially matter to a broad range of people.
ofspecialist external advisers and dedicated internal resource.
We believe that: Asummary of our Responsible Investment policy is available on ourwebsite.
the effective assessment of ESG matters has a positive effect on the value of our investee companies and of 3i Group itself: For more information on our approach to Responsible Investing, including a summary of our Responsible Investment policy, compliance with local laws and regulations may not be enough please visit www.
com  to meet global expectations, deliver value and enhance our   reputation and licence to operate: and it is vital that we seek to identify all material ESG risks and opportunities through our due diligence and effectively manage them during the period of 3is investment.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 56 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Corporate Governance External benchmarking p57 We believe that it is important to evidence our commitment to operating responsibly and to show how we are performing.
Corporate responsibility report Accordingly, we provide information to shareholders and other www.
Corporate responsibility policies Sustainability indices www.
com  -policies We have been a long-standing member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and of the FTSE4Good Index Series since Responsible investment 2001 and 2011 respectively.
com  The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices are the longest-running   global sustainability benchmarks and are used by asset managers globally to assist them in their investment decisions.
The FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong corporate responsibility practices.
Carbon Disclosure Project The Carbon Disclosure Project is an international, not-for-profit organisation providing a framework which enables businesses to disclose their greenhouse emissions and other metrics voluntarily.
3i has been making annual submissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2006.
By order of the Board Simon Borrows Chief Executive 18 May 2016
