Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance The Boards aim is to invest responsibly.
The Board is responsible for the definition and implementation Good corporate governance is fundamental to 3i Infrastructure and its activities.
For full details of the Companys governance of the Companys corporate responsibility policy, structure, please see the Governance section of this report and however in practice it relies heavily on the relevant visit the Governance & CSR section of the Companys website at policies and procedures put in place by 3iGroup that www.
apply to the Investment Adviser and, consequently, Bribery Act tothe Company.
The Company does not offer, pay or accept bribes and is committed For more information on 3i Groups corporate responsibility policies, to working only with third parties whose standards of business please refer to its website: www.
integrity are substantively consistent with its own.
The Company also TheBoard believes that these policies meet the Companys objectives expects the businesses it invests in to commit to avoiding corruption in this area.
in all its forms and to comply with anti-bribery, anti-fraud and antimoney laundering laws applicable to them.
The Company has an Responsible Investment policy anti-bribery policy and is fully compliant with the provisions of the 3i Group is a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible UK Bribery Act.
Investment RI and has embedded RI policies in its investment and asset management processes.
Environment The Investment Advisers philosophy on RI can be summarised As an investment company with no employees, governed by a nonas follows: executive Board of Directors, 3i Infrastructure has no material direct impact on the environment.
Its carbon emissions are negligible, the effective assessment and management of environmental, and limited to Board members travel to and from Jersey to attend social, business integrity and corporate governance matters has Board meetings.
a positive effect on the value of portfolio companies, and hence on 3iInfrastructure itself: Procurement compliance with local laws and regulations may not be enough to 3i Infrastructure has developed policies and procedures in relation meet global expectations, deliver value and enhance reputation to the procurement of services received from third-party providers.
and licence to operate: and As far as possible, the Company will work only with suppliers it is vital that the Investment Adviser seeks to identify all who support its aim to source products and services responsibly.
material environmental, social and governance ESG risks and 3i Infrastructure aims to have a collaborative relationship with its opportunities through its due diligence and effectively manage service providers and, wherever possible, will work with them when them during the period of the Companys investment.
problems or issues arise to help them meet its requirements.
The Investment Advisers RI policy makes clear that it aims to use its Prompt Payment Code influence to promote a commitment in portfolio companies to: 3i Group performs most payment and treasury functions for the comply, as a minimum, with applicable local and Company and is a signatory of the Prompt Payment Code.
The Code international laws: encourages and promotes best practice between organisations mitigate adverse environmental and social impacts and enhance and their suppliers.
Signatories to the Code commit to paying their positive effects on the environment, workers and relevant suppliers within clearly defined terms, and to ensuring there is a stakeholders: and proper process for dealing with any issues that may arise.
uphold high standards of business integrity and good corporate governance.
The main features of the policy include: clear statements of the commitment to mitigate adverse This Strategic report is approved environmental and social impacts and uphold high standards of by order of the Board business integrity and good corporate governance: Authorised signatory an exclusion list of businesses and activities in which investment is precluded: Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited a referral list of businesses and activities which may be Company Secretary particularly sensitive and may require additional scrutiny: and 11 May 2016 a set of minimum ESG standards that portfolio companies should meet, either at the time of investment or within a reasonable period thereafter.
Details of the Investment Advisers RI policy are available on 3iGroups website: www.
38 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016
