Our people Our success depends on the talent of the people we employ.
Just as we recognise the benefits of diversifying our asset mix and client base, we value the diversity of thought mixed teams bring.
Recruiting, developing and retaining a diverse workforce and supporting an inclusive working culture remain key priorities.
Culture Culture has played a fundamental role in our growth over the At an entry level, we recruited 107 interns, 31 graduates, past 33 years and, as we grow, we want to ensure we maintain 10 apprentices and 7 participants from the Investment 2020 and enhance our culture both to differentiate ourselves in a scheme.
These programmes aim to equip recruits with a broad competitive market, and to manage risks within our business.
based knowledge of both Aberdeen and the asset management industry as a whole.
Our culture is how we manifest our values as a company the standards we set for ourselves and the attitudes we have to our work, our clients and each other.
Through our distinct corporate culture we seek to attract the best people to work for At a senior level, we have strengthened us, and give investors worldwide the confidence to entrust their our management team with senior financial future to us.
external appointments in distribution and Having a strong corporate culture does not mean putting people into boxes or trying to make everyone think identically.
Quite operations, and internal promotions in our the opposite.
By sharing the same values and standards, we hope investment teams.
to promote a workplace in which different talents, opinions and personalities work even better together.
In a competitive industry, we want to keep building a global Morale has been impacted by flows but we remain focused on our company where talented, dedicated people are committed to team based approach.
Senior employees, who have weathered working together and delivering tangible results.
A place where previous financial cycles, play an important role in re-assuring everyones skills and ideas are valued and used to their full potential.
Our culture committee, which includes representation from all business divisions and geographies, is responsible for determining Our team-based approach to investing and implementing how we can better safeguard, manage, We have experienced, stable and well-resourced teams monitor and improve our culture.
Teams have a blend of experience and youth This year, the committee undertook a number of initiatives, Our approach builds resilience and succession including a group wide employee opinion survey specifically We aim to share knowledge and enable relationships focused on our culture.
This survey will provide important evidence across all locations from which our executive team can gauge overall engagement Retention of talent is a key focus globally and importantly highlight strengths and weaknesses in particular priority areas.
Our approach is to be open, entrepreneurial and inclusive Recruitment and retention Retention of talent is a focus globally and we have a number As an investor in companies globally we know that the best of initiatives in place to address our employees diverse needs, companies draw on the widest pool of talent so it is important for including mentoring, maternity coaching and a range of us that the businesses in which we invest do not limit themselves development opportunities which are available via the Aberdeen in the way they recruit and how they develop their people, and this Asset Management Academy.
We also offer a range of flexible applies to our own business too.
work opportunities, encourage agile working and offer equal shared parental leave to both parents in a number of our locations.
22 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Fostering diversity, promoting inclusion Total employees 2,700 Aberdeen is committed to building and sustaining a diverse workforce and inclusive workplace.
Our aim is to ensure that we Diversity of ages provide our clients and wider stakeholders with the diversity of thought necessary to build long-term value.
and under % - years % We realise this needs to be an ongoing commitment and one - years % which requires continual monitoring.
As such we have formalised - years % our global diversity and inclusion committee which includes - years % representation from across the Group and several GMB members.
- years % and over % One commitment the committee has already made is to sign the Women in Finance Charter.
Andrew Laing is our elected senior executive for this initiative.
Our aim is for 42% to 45% of our Length of service UK employees to be female by 2022.
Within this our goal is to increase female representation at UK senior management level to less than year % between 31% and 33%.
We have set similar targets globally.
- years % - years % Performance objectives have been set at management level linked - years % to the achievement of these targets and we will report on our - years % progress on an annual basis.
- years % - years % During the year, we also launched four new employee networks, over years % Balance, Capability, Liberty and Unity: rolled out unconscious bias training to employees globally: and participated in a number of industry initiatives focused on improving diversity in its Total workforce: 2,700 broadest sense.
Where we are legally allowed, we now ask all employees to declare 56% 44% their age, ethnicity and disability status, which so far has allowed 1,512 in total 1,188 in total us to collate data for the Americas, UK and Asia Pacific.
From this we can determine if there are areas of the business where we need to do more to promote diversity and inclusion.
Senior managers: 184 Diversity and inclusion is also considered as part of our sponsorship strategy as we want to align with events which promote a wide 71% 29% range of both participants and viewers.
Our biggest sponsorship 53 in total 131 in total activity during the year is the Scottish Open and we remain proud sponsors of both the Mens and Ladies Open.
This year, to coincide GMB: 21 with the event, we held a Female Leadership in Business and Sport event the day before the Ladies Open started.
90% 10% Learning, development and talent management Last year we committed significant additional investment to our 19 in total 2 in total learning and development offering, by introducing the Aberdeen Asset Management Academy.
This platform combines a wide Board of directors: 12 range of learning and development initiatives and enables employees to record, explore and plan their careers and personal development.
The learning is split into technical training and 25% 75% business skills.
9 in total 3 in total Unplanned employee Retention rates after 1 turnover rate parental leave 2016 2015 2016 2015 11.2% 10.3% 100% 94% 1 The average US employee voluntary turnover rate in 2014 for Banking and Finance was 13.3% Source: Compensation Force, while in the UK voluntary labour turnover in Financial Services in 2013 was 11.8% Source: XpertHR.
com 23 Our people continued The modern slavery act In addition to training for all employees, our senior leadership For Aberdeen, stewardship is a fundamental element of our and emerging talent programmes continue to receive positive investment approach across all asset classes and a thorough feedback.
We invest significantly in the development of leadership assessment of governance and risk management, including skills and to date, 62 employees have completed the senior those risks which could be classified as environmental, social or leadership programme and 188 the emerging talent programme.
governance ESG, is conducted before any investment decision Employees selected for these programmes come from across our is made.
This approach also applies to the way in which our global offices.
These programmes involve the identification of top procurement decisions are made.
talent and feed through to the succession planning process.
Our supplier due diligence questionnaire includes questions Average hours of training per employee on key issues such as: risk management: anti-financial crime: outsourcing: information security: data privacy: business 2015 2016 continuity: labour policies and environmental management.
This Group-wide approach is a further development in our work 28 hours 28 hours to mitigate risk exposure, work with suppliers who share our business standards and encourage our suppliers to operate in a Innovation and engagement responsible manner.
As set out in our market review, the environment in which we We support, and adhere to, the UK Modern Slavery Act in all our operate is changing the way clients want to do business.
More locally, in the UK, Aberdeen is a Living Wage The regulatory landscape is evolving and the growth of passive Foundation Employer, does not employ any individuals on zero investing threatens our market share.
As our business model hours contracts and continues to comply with the UK Government adapts to these issues, we recognise that many ideas for Prompt Payment Code, an initiative to promote best practice improvement and innovation can come from within the business.
between companies and their suppliers.
Led by the innovation committee and enabled by our platform Ignite, we want to harness the ideas of our employees to work Charitable foundation more efficiently and effectively.
Collaboration and knowledge Now in its fifth year, the Aberdeen Charitable Foundation sharing are fundamental to this.
As such, we have continued to continues to grow both through monetary contributions and improve our internal communications through email bulletins, employee engagement.
The Foundation plays an important senior management videos and town halls.
role internally, enhancing skills development and cross Reinforcing positive business practices divisional collaboration, and externally having a positive We are committed to conducting our business to high ethical economic and social benefit in the communities in which standards and in compliance with all relevant laws.
We continue to be an active member of the UN Global Compact At a local level, each of our global offices has the autonomy and our operations and policies support and reflect the ten to select projects they would like to support, within global Global Compact principles.
We uphold the Universal Declaration guidelines.
Once again, our employees took the opportunity of Human Rights in all our operations, and respect collective to volunteer with our emerging markets partners, taking five bargaining and freedom of association.
days of volunteer leave to experience on the ground how the Foundations donations are being spent and the impact they We are committed to providing equal employment opportunities are having.
and although particular legal provisions and formulations may differ in the various locations in which we do business, By providing employees with the opportunity to volunteer our principles are the same worldwide.
Concern for the personal we enhance the value of our financial contributions and dignity and individual worth of every person is an indispensable actively help to tackle social challenges.
On our 24 hour element in the standard of conduct that we have set for ourselves.
global volunteering day in May, over 400 employees from 23 offices took part, demonstrating the enthusiasm and We continue to enhance and invest in our anti-bribery and value employees place on this aspect of our business.
corruption ABC approach, implementation and monitoring These activities enhance the interpersonal skills of our programme and have in place strong whistleblowing procedures.
people and promote team spirit ultimately strengthening our corporate culture.
24 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report aberdeen-asset.
