sustainability review Committed to delivering benefits to all of our stakeholders highlights education health power and water 28 8 6 Key Projects supported in 2016 Key Projects supported in 2016 Key Projects supported in 2016 US$2.6m US$1.1m US$0.9m amount invested in 2016 amount invested in 2016 amount invested in 2016 infraStructure economic development community coheSion & other 5 4 7 Key Projects supported in 2016 Key Projects supported in 2016 Key Projects supported in 2016 US$0.7m US$0.6m US$0.6m amount invested in 2016 amount invested in 2016 amount invested in 2016 our approach to sustainability We continue to develop our sustainability practices for the benefit of our stakeholder group as a whole.
We aim to maintain SECuRITy aND SuSTaINaBLE and improve our social licence HuMaN RIGHTS COMMuNITIES to operate through acting p58 p54 responsibly in relation to our people, the environment and the communities in which SaFETy ENVIRONMENT we operate.
p57 p56 EMPLOyEES p57 For more information, visit: www.
com sustainability 52 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 PerforMAnce review We aim to contribute to socio-economic development in the areas in which we operate through ongoing stakeholder engagement and participation.
acacias direct economic contribution is The distribution of acacias taxes includes made up of the economic value we add by royalties, indirect taxes withholding taxes and paying our employees, governments, suppliers, non-claimable VaT, payroll taxes inclusive shareholders, contractors and communities.
of social security payments and other taxes, However, our true economic contribution is stamp duties, local service levies and far greater once the wider effects of our environmental levies.
Geographically, the presence are considered.
These include majority of our taxes are paid in Tanzania, being the indirect effects of people spending their the location of our operating mines.
Our net wages, governments distributing tax and royalty taxation contribution was uS$164 million in revenues, and neighbouring communities using 2016, compared to uS$103 million in 2014, the infrastructure developed for our operations.
mainly as a result of the uS$55 million of Our direct economic contribution in 2016 was corporate taxes incurred in 2016. uS$911 million compared to uS$889 million in 2015.
1 1 2015 Net tax contribution 2016 Net tax contribution US$million US$million 16 47 55 38 54 22 40 Royalty Government Royalty Government Payroll taxes including social security Payroll taxes including social security Other taxes including WHT, stamp duties, Other taxes including WHT, stamp duties, environmental levies environmental levies Corporate income tax incurred 1 Excludes refundable indirect taxes.
Direct economic contribution 2015 % 2016 100 80 60 40 20 0 -20 -40 Interest and Dividends Taxes and Employees Available for Suppliers, Repayment non-controlling Government net of tax reinvestment contractors and of borrowings shareholders royalties utilised communities for growth AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 53 sustainability review CONTINuED Sustainable communities In addition to rolling out the strategy, we Breakdown of new grievances lodged Our focus for 2016 was to begin to implement continued to deliver development projects by mine site our new sustainable communities strategy in key sectors such as education, social Total number which aims to contribute to the development infrastructure, health, water and sanitation 440 of sustainable communities that enjoy a and sports and culture.
During the year we thriving local economy, have access to social implemented 58 community initiatives to 264 267 236 infrastructure and live in a safe and inclusive the value of uS$6.1 million across all our environment achieved through transparent operating mine sites in Tanzania through 79 stakeholder engagements.
The strategy seeks the Maendeleo Fund with a total CSR-related to align its activities to local development spend of uS$10.7 million.
Some of the key 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 plans and work through partnerships to meet initiatives included: Bulyanhulu 1 the needs of the communities.
We see our a partnership with the Benjamin Mkapa Buzwagi 0 role as supporting the local communities Foundation for a maternal and child health North Mara 266 and government in their efforts to achieve programme for communities around Total excludes 6 grievances registered in Kenya.
sustainable development and thus our Bulyanhulu: strategy is aligned to the uN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
construction of a 12.5km compacted Total community investment laterite road to connect Chapulwa, Mwime Some of the key highlights of rolling out our US$million and Mwendakulima in Buzwagi: and new strategy included: extension of the Kerende health facility 1 13.0 1 internal and external consultations 12.9 12.3 in North Mara.
10.8 10.7 to seek buy-in for the strategy: We have invested significantly in the education assessment of all existing projects to sector around our mine sites over the years determine status and identify priorities: by contributing to the development of school project management and approval infrastructure, student sponsorships, school 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 processes were strengthened: clubs and vocational training.
In 2016 alone, we invested over uS$2.6 million in education Bulyanhulu 1.8 emphasis on measuring performance of projects in our zone of influence.
The Buzwagi 1.6 initiatives at outcomes and impacts level: importance of this sector in our communities North Mara 5.6 and cannot be over emphasised and during 2016, Corporate and other 1.7 recruitment of a General Manager, we also supported over 2,500 school children 1 E xcludes spend on discontinued operations of Sustainable Communities.
with school uniforms and learning materials uS$1.4 million in 2012 and uS$3.2 million in 2013. through our partnership with CanEducate, a Canadian non-profit NGO.
We also contributed to adding classrooms to several schools in communities and donated progressive rehabilitation at north mara over 11,500 desks around our mine sites in Land rehabilitation is carried out as part of an integral line with government priorities of ensuring closure process.
Progressive rehabilitation is carried out at every child has a desk.
In order to be more North Mara, a practice globally recognised as industry best effective in our delivery in the education sector, practice from both environmental and financial perspectives.
we conducted an Education Scoping Study which was designed to inform our efforts to after completion of mining at the Nyabigena East pit, enhance educational outcomes.
The study Operational pit March 2013 backfilling of 45 vertical metres was completed using waste found that there is a substantial increase in rock, a clay layer and topsoil for vegetation growth.
Reschool enrolment in both primary and vegetation took place in 2016, using 20,000 tree seedlings of secondary schools in the districts within our 14 local tree species.
Selection of tree species was done in zone of influence.
However, there was a consultation with the local community to ensure they are in shortage of qualified and motivated teachers agreement with the final land use of the area.
The overarching which impacted the learning outcomes of the objective for the area is to achieve a stable ecological state students.
In 2017, we plan to explore ways of while meeting stakeholders needs for the land which include addressing some of these challenges through some commercial produce, beekeeping and timber production.
partnerships as recommended by the study Vegetation cover complete March 2016 team and in alignment with our sustainable communities strategy.
54 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 PerforMAnce review as part of our ongoing activities to build community cohesion, our annual Mahusiano Sports Bonanza was held at all three mine sites in Tanzania.
apart from the sporting activities, the Bonanza offered an opportunity for local businesses to market their businesses and transact with the participants.
Our partnership with Sunderland Football Club continued and 140 coaches were trained and reached approximately 200 school children who participated in the coaching clinics.
The training is multi-sport and covers other sports such as netball that are popular in the communities.
as we transitioned our community development activities to suit our sustainable communities bulyanhulu support for geita region Commissioners initiative for increasing the strategy, we focused our efforts on completing number of desks in schools, Deus has also School desks while promoting local some of our legacy projects in 2016.
These supplied another 500 desks to Nyanghwale business mainly comprised commitments or obligations District through our education initiatives.
In January 2016, the Tanzanian government we have made to our communities.
We planned Deus is proud of his contribution to his local introduced the Free Education for all policy, to deliver all these commitments over a period community and said this opportunity to which has led to a surge in school enrolment at of two years 2016-2017.
Significant progress fabricate the desks helped me contribute to primary and secondary schools.
Despite the has been made to complete these projects the local economy in Nyanghwale.
I was able success of this policy from an access North Mara, for example, completed 80% of its to employ 33 community members.
Fifteen perspective, it has put pressure on the existing 2016 planned obligated projects.
We plan to of them were carpenters who dealt with school facilities and resources as these have deliver the remaining committed projects at all fabricating the timber for desks to their not been sufficiently increased to meet the sites in alignment with our strategy in 2017. required sizes ready for fitting: eight increased demand.
Lack of basic school community members were employed in the In 2016, we continued to work with Search for materials such as desks and learning material welding section: six community members Common Ground SFCG, an international impacts negatively on the pupils ability to learn were employed for polishing and varnishing non-profit organisation aimed at transforming and compromises the quality of education.
In the desks and four women were food vendors conflict and adversarial interactions into addition, the shortage of teachers in the that helped cook for my workers during the collaborative problem-solving relationships.
schools exerts further pressure on the quality project time.
In the end we were able to finish Through its Sustainable Business Practice of the education students receive.
the project on time and produce strong and programme, we have been working with SFCG good quality desks.
In recognition of these challenges, since 2011.
In 2016 alone, SFCG conducted Bulyanhulu participated in a fundraising over 2,700 multistakeholder meetings and In his comments during the handover event, event for school desks, hosted by the Geita townhalls which reached over 11,500 the Nyanghwale District Executive Director Regional Commissioner, as guests of stakeholders around all our mining operations.
noted that as of March 2016 the District had Nyanghwale District.
at the fundraising event In addition, they trained approximately 950 12,828 desks in primary schools out of Bulyanhulu committed to providing a total of policemen and women in the Voluntary 17,091 needed.
at secondary school level 1,500 desks to be handed over to schools Principles on Security and Human Rights they had 3,077 desks out of 4,717 needed.
all these interactions have upon consultation with the Nyanghwale commitment to developing local business, significantly improved the relationships between District authorities we further facilitated the the desks were made by local suppliers.
our mining operations and the stakeholders as fabrication of an additional 1,015 primary measured through the community perception schools desks and 500 secondary school The maker and supplier of the desks, Deus surveys carried out periodically by SFCG.
a handover ceremony Noah Mulela, is a local entrepreneur we have of desks and chairs to the Geita Regional been providing support to so that he is School Desks Fundraising Committee via capable of supplying to the mine, mainly for the Nyanghwale District Commissioner community projects.
We helped him register was conducted in November 2016. his company as a vendor on the acacia supply chain system which has provided him an In 2016, our Bulyanhulu mine spent over opportunity to gain some business from the uS$223,000 in supporting various school mine.
In addition to these 1,500 desks which desks initiatives, thus adding over 5,000 were donated as part of the Geita Regional desks in the region.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 55 sustainability review CONTINuED In delivering our interventions, stakeholder Group average total water used and in this report has re-calculated historical engagement is at the centre of our work.
We Litres used per tonne of ore milled figures based on improved information on 550 constantly engage with the local district and purchased electricity.
Overall, 2016 GHG 486 468 451 regional councils, community leaders and emissions equaled 287,606 tonnes of CO e, 424 2 communities in general in the areas we work a marginal increase 1% from the equivalent in.
We have hosted communities on our mine 2015 levels.
However, as a result of increased sites to expose them to our operations to gain throughput, our energy usage assessed on the an understanding of what happens in mining.
basis of megajoules of energy used per tonne of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 These tours are insightful for our visitors and ore milled, decreased by 3% when compared to Bulyanhulu 553 create transparency in the way we operate.
Further information on Group Buzwagi 489 The approximately 600 visitors included school GHG emissions is provided on page 97.
North Mara 229 children, community members, government understanding that water is a precious officials and the media.
resource, water conservation and protection Group average energy used per tonne of ore milled In recognition of our work with communities, of the surrounding water resources form part of Megajoules North Mara was awarded the CSR award in our key principles of water management.
We 592 569 the Mining Industry by the association of are currently working to improve our water 505 464 447 Tanzania Employers aTE.
In addition, the balances across our sites to better account for mine received the best Exhibitor for Mara Day water uses as well as identifying more areas of commemorations in Kenya awarded by the water savings.
Our total water usage in 2016 East african Community Ministry of Water and decreased by 9% as a result of our ongoing Natural Resources Tanzania and Kenya.
Reclaimed 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Bulyanhulu operations were recognised with waters from tailing storage facilities as well as Bulyanhulu 481 a Certificate of appreciation on Road Safety mine dewatering continued to be the primary Buzwagi 524 in Shinyanga region.
sources of water for our operational activities.
North Mara 381 In 2017, we aim to prioritise initiatives at North Mara, no freshwater was drawn from that contribute to the development of local Our overall performance for 2016 was good, Mara River during 2016, making the site fully economies through supporting local businesses with the Group successfully completing the reliant on the water generated from the open and the agricultural sector, which is an majority of key initiatives and priorities for the pits and underground mine.
Buzwagis usage important sector in the areas we operate in.
Key achievements include the completion from Lake Victoria was reduced significantly of new waste management facilities at North utilising water from the mine pit and rain water environment Mara and Bulyanhulu mines, and posting collected through the sites water harvesting acacia is committed to responsible mining rehabilitation bonds and signing agreements area.
We will look to enhance our water balance by undertaking to minimise harm to the with the Ministry of Energy making acacia models and identify areas of additional water environment in which we operate.
During mines the first in the country to have these savings in 2017 as part of overall Group water 2016, we reviewed our environmental strategy bonds in place.
Implementation of the acacia management programmes.
and refined environmental priorities for the EMS in line with ISO14001 was progressed Company in the short to medium term.
as part biodiversity further during the year, improving programmes of the process, we undertake to proactively acacias responsibility towards biodiversity to manage our top environmental risks at all manage our top environmental risks and was maintained during the year by containing our sites.
Towards the end of the year the enhance opportunities.
strict controls on land disturbances.
a standard North Mara and Bulyanhulu mines achieved applies to all our sites prohibiting unauthorised their cyanide code recertification after land disturbances unless the Environment addressing the corrective action plan issued in Department has reviewed the need and 2015.
Buzwagi is due for recertification during approved for disturbance to take place.
Our 2017 and preparations are underway.
ultimate goal for biodiversity management is acacias GHG emissions continued to be to protect and minimise land disturbance as impacted by interruptions to the electricity supply much as possible, and eventually rehabilitate in Tanzania and our reliance on self-generation of disturbed land to achieve land productivities power.
In 2015, we reported our emissions in of higher value than what existed prior to CO, amounting 370,092 tonnes.
Progressive rehabilitation is one 2 was largely impacted by lack of information on of our key priorities for 2017 for areas that fuel mix for purchased electricity, and as such become available.
after completing backfilling conservative assumptions were made.
From and re-vegetation of the Nyabigena East pit, 2016 onwards, acacia will report its GHG North Mara will commence rehabilitation of emissions in terms of CO equivalent CO e its airstrip PaF dump during 2017.
Likewise, 2 2 56 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 PerforMAnce review Buzwagi will be commencing rehabilitation on its Female representation Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR major waste rock dump and embark on a tree Percentage of overall workforce Frequency rate planting campaign within the mine and also in 0.86 0.83 0.74 neighbouring communities in Kahama town.
The 9 9 0.68 0.68 8 8 area surrounding Buzwagi mine is fairly dry and 7 vegetation impacted by urbanisation, thus the tree planting campaign will help to restore the lost vegetation and achieve a net positive 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 impact on biodiversity.
Only native tree species Bulyanhulu 1.38 are used for rehabilitation programmes to Buzwagi 0.37 enhance biodiversity of the areas we operate.
Localisation of workforce North Mara 0.35 Percentage of nationals in operational workforce incident reporting 95.5 95.6 95.6 96.2 95.3 acacia keeps records of all environmental 2015 to 55 in 2016, a46% reduction.
a key driver incidents occurring at our sites.
Our supporting commendable improvement was the Environmental Incident Management standard implementation of the first five of eleven critical provides for three classes of incidents, namely: risk control standards at each of the mine sites.
High reportable incidents, Moderate or Low.
The incidents classified as High require a The WeCare behavioural safety programme 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 detailed investigation and subsequent Tunajali is fully implemented at all the sites reporting to the Government while Moderate and is now supported by the safety interactions Group-wide turnover and Low are only recorded internally and get process visible felt leadership, hazard reporting Percentage within operations reported to the Government through the annual and investigation process, task observations environmental report submitted to the 27.8% 27.3% andpre-task risk assessments.
Focus has 27.2% 27.4% 26.8% Government each year.
nowshifted to leading indicators to identify, investigate and control hazards and at-risk No reportable incidents were recorded during behaviours to improve safety performance.
the year at any of our sites.
a total of 140 minor non-reportable incidents were reported During 2016, the top five critical risk control 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 across our three mines, representing a 7% standards were rolled out at each site.
Each decrease from 2015. site achieved the 80% compliance target set for completed the training to date with a further end 2016.
Compliance to these five critical risk employees 31apprentices currently in the Integrated control standards will be further enhanced during We continued to make noticeable progress Mining Technical Training IMTT programme.
2017 and the additional six critical risk control across a variety of employee initiatives standards will be rolled out during 2017 to further throughout 2016, whilst maintaining approximately 8% of our overall workforce are drive a reduction in high potential incidents.
acceptable levels across core employee women, something which isreflective of gender metrics.
annual turnover across our operations diversity generally withinthe mining industry.
We also progressed a number of initiatives was approximately 27.3%, which is a slight Of this, female representation across our within an occupational health and safety decrease on 2015 27.8%.
We continued to management structures equalled approximately context to increase the effectiveness of progress our commitment to the localisation 10% at Board level and 13% at senior leadership existing occupational health programmes and ofour workforce throughout 2016, with annual level.
all levels are broadly consistent with continued to progress health assessments, national employment levels amounting to female representation levels in 2015. including malaria control assessments, for approximately 96.2% of our total workforce, ouremployees and wider community base.
Thisis incorporated into an updated acacia Group-wide Total Recordable Injury Frequency Occupational Health and Safety Management We continued to invest in training and Rate TRIFR was 0.74 compared to 0.68 in System which was rolled out in 2016.
The total development programmes throughout the year, 2015, a 9% regression.
Regrettably, in January number of malaria cases and the days lost due notably through the launch of our Future 2016 one of our contractors at North Mara to malaria both decreased by more than 30% Leaders programme to develop current and passed away as a result of a haul truck accident.
future leaders, and a number of additional although there was aslight increase in the business improvement and project management number of Lost Time Injuries, from 27 in 2015 to programmes.
We maintained our focus 32 in 2016, the injury severity rate decreased by onlonger-term training programmes, such as 17%.
The number ofhigh potential incidents our Rainbow Leadership Training programme these are incidents that could under slightly for first line leaders which was successfully different circumstances have led to a fatality or rolled out in 2016: 102 participants have permanent disability decreased from 101 in AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 57 sustainability review CONTINuED Security and human rights Breakdown of new grievances lodged by type Securing our mine sites while ensuring the safety % and security of all is our most salient human 14 18 rights challenge, particularly in the context of ongoing mine intrusion risks at our North Mara 6 Gold Mine.
It is a multifaceted problem, and we must continually work to address immediate physical and underlying economic and social root 62 causes, the capability and conduct of those who provide security services and enforce law and order in and around our mine sites, and the Security Human Rights 14% response to grievances or claims when incidents Land and property 62% that may involve human rights issues do occur.
Livelihoods 6% We must do so always mindful that governments Environmental 0% have the primary responsibility within their Other 6% borders, for law and order and the protection of human rights, including the right to life and security of person.
Key to our security strategy is appropriate training on security and human rights to our We saw significant improvement across all private security and to the police deployed near metrics relating to security risks and impacts our operations including on international on the right to life and security of person in standards on the use of force and firearms, 2016.
There were far fewer illegal incursions sexual violence and treatment of vulnerable into areas of active mining, with numbers of groups.
We continued to support SFCG in intruders at the open pits and run-of-mine ore providing training to the Tanzanian police in 2016. pad at North Mara down by 98% in 2016 compared to 2014 monthly average of 126 in In 2016, 37 allegations relating to public or 2016 compared to over 7,000 in 2014, with private security were reported through our almost none at Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi.
operations community grievance processes compared to 74 in 2015.
Of these, 30 involved We saw a reduction in the number of  of use of excessive force by police related fatalities during the year, from 9 in 2015 2015: 58 and 7 involved allegations of use of to 6 in 2016.
There were two security-related excessive force by private security 2015: 16. trespasser fatalities, both confrontations all allegations related to North Mara.
between police and trespassers at North Mara.
There were four additional trespasser fatalities In 2016, the grievance office made significant at North Mara, unrelated to security: three progress in clearing the backlog of pending people drowned in a flooded former pit outside cases from previous years with 117 cases the secured perimeter, and a further person lost relating to public or private security being their life in an accident at the waste dumps.
all concluded through our North Maras human fatalities are reported to the local authorities rights grievance process 2015: 29.
Of these, who investigate each incident, with police- 109 were found to be unsubstantiated or related incidents referred to the Regional Police inconclusive 2015: 17.
The Mine agreed to Commander and, if relevant, on to the attorney help provide a remedy for 8 cases that were General for investigation.
This tragic loss of life found to be substantiated 2015: 12.
One is unacceptable, and we will continue to review employee was terminated for excessive our security and safety arrangements and how use of force.
we operate to seek to eliminate such incidents.
One grievance relating to public or private security lodged in 2016 at North Mara is still being investigated and we aim to resolve this in early 2017.
We aim to resolve all security and human rights grievances as promptly as possible, taking into account that police investigations sometimes cause delay.
58 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 PerforMAnce review a spotlight Trespassers in active on north Mara mining areas monthly average 7,157 534 Managing a complex situation 126 2014 2015 2016 and overcoming legacy issues Intruder fatalities 17 The North Mara Gold Mine commenced the new waste rock dump for the Nyabirama pit operations in 2002 in a remote area of Tanzania to reduce the risk of illegal miners exposing 9 that still lacks significant infrastructure and themselves to safety risks during mine dumping 6 where the mine is the dominant source of wealth.
activities or by causing uncontrolled rock falls.
a subsequent 10-fold increase in the local In tandem, we will enhance our physical and 2014 2015 2016 population due to in-migration has exacerbated remote mine site surveillance systems to the mines importance to the approximately improve early detection and proactive Fall from height 0 80,000 people living in close proximity.
The management of intruder occurrences.
In ghting 0 mines relationship with the community has Police involvement 2 One of our key aims is to ensure that there historically been challenged by violent Drowning 3 are no fatal incidents on the mine, this applies confrontations with trespassers looking to Rockfall 0 to both our employees, contractors and steal gold-bearing material from the mine Vehicle accident 1 communities members who illegally enter the site.
However, over the past three years, North Other 0 mine premises.
We are deeply disappointed that Mara has seen a dramatic improvement in this there were six intruder fatalities at North Mara.
relationship as the collective result of strategic, There were two security-related trespasser operational, community development and fatalities, both a result of confrontations security initiatives which together, have been between police and trespassers.
There were four instrumental in reducing the number of additional trespasser fatalities at North Mara, intrusions, and therefore the potential for unrelated to security: three people drowned in a violent confrontations.
flooded former pit outside the secured perimeter, The decision to go underground at our Gokona and a further person lost their life in an accident pit has significantly reduced the footprint of the at the waste dumps.
all fatalities are reported mine and its impact on our local communities.
to the local authorities who investigate each We have enhanced our security infrastructure incident, with police-related incidents referred to by constructing perimeter walls around each of the Regional Police Commander and if relevant the active mining areas.
We have brought in a the attorney General for investigation.
specialist security contractor, while our CSR team Our approach to security at our operations is has taken a more proactive approach to managing guided by the Voluntary Principles.
We have also worked human rights requirements in our contracts with closely with the Tarime District and the central private security providers and have entered into Government, who have stepped up their efforts Memoranda of understanding with the police to improve respect for law and order in the local that provide law and order in and around our community through increased education, mines setting out clearly defined terms of community policing and active police operations.
We expect the Delivery of our sustainable communities strategy police to respect human rights and adhere should further reduce our local communities to international codes of conduct for law reliance on North Mara and numbers of intruders enforcement and international principles on our mine sites.
Over uS$30 million of past on the use of force and firearms.
investments into infrastructure - such as schools, acacia provides training to all private security health clinics, clean water and upgrading road personnel and supports the training provided networks - has improved our relationships.
Our by Search for Common Ground to the police focus is now on fostering thriving local economies on security and human rights.
We participate so that the communities around our mines can in remediation through our operational level more readily access gainful employment and grievance processes when security related higher economic returns.
We are currently human rights impacts do occur, as suggested supporting programmes designed to encourage by the uN Guiding Principles on Business and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises: Human Rights.
While there is still more to be increase the levels of productive employment: done, we are pleased that North Maras and increase agricultural productivity and the security and human rights situation improved income of small-scale producers.
We continue to We are continuing to invest in security work to protect the safety and security of our infrastructure to seek to minimise trespasser employees and intruders onto our mine site numbers and resulting security and safety risks.
within a framework that promotes respect for In 2017, we will construct a safety barrier around human rights in 2017.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 59
