90 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Ethics Committee report INTRODUCTION BY KEN HANNA, ETHICS COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Aggreko conducts its business with integrity, honesty and transparency.
We expect all Aggreko employees, consultants and those acting on behalf of Aggreko to adopt these standards.
We are proud that we have a reputation for conducting business fairly and professionally and we are committed to maintaining these values in all of our business dealings.
We recognise that our business is exposed to risks of unethical KEN HANNA conduct because of the nature and value of many of our contracts ETHICS COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN and because standards of integrity are not consistent across all the countries in which we operate.
However, we believe we have a robust compliance programme in place which allows us to manage these risks effectively.
The effectiveness of the compliance programme is monitored The role of the Ethics Committee bythe Ethics Committee.
is toensurethat Aggreko conducts The Ethics Committee is currently made up of two Independent business with integrity and transparency Non-executive Directors, with myself as Chairman.
I have been a andinaccordancewith the law member of the Committee since its first meeting in February 2011 and became Chairman of the Committee in April 2012.
AREAS OF ACTIVITY IN 2016 In 2016 we held three meetings.
We invited the Head of Compliance, Group Legal Director and Chief Executive officer Approved the implementation of revised Gifts, Entertainment and toattend all meetings.
Hospitality, Charitable Donations and Sponsorship policies.
Reviewed the implementation of a new online ethics training ROLE OF ETHICS COMMITTEE programme for all employees and enhanced ethics training for seniormanagement teams.
Advise the Board on the development of strategy and policy Monitored the introduction of a Supplier Code of Conduct setting out onethical matters.
the standards expected from suppliers to Aggreko.
Instructed an independent maturity assessment of the Advise the Board on steps to be taken to establish a culture of compliance programme.
integrity and honesty in all of the Companys business dealings.
Received briengs from the business units in relation to their approach Oversee the Companys policies and procedures for the to managing compliance risks within their respective business units.
identication, assessment, management and reporting ofethical risk.
Oversee the Companys policies and procedures to prevent MEMBERS IN 2016 persons associated with the Company from engaging in Meetings attended unethical behaviour.
Ken Hanna Ethics Committee Chairman Monitor and review the operation of the Companys ethics policies and procedures.
Diana Layeld Non-executive Director Monitor and review all payments made to third-party Dame Nicola Brewer Non-executive Director sales consultants.
1 Ian Marchant Non-executive Director MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE ETHICS COMMITTEE 1 DURING THE YEAR Ian Marchant stepped down as a Member of this Committee in April 2017, followinghis appointment as Audit Committee Chairman.
Ethics policies In 2016, we introduced revised versions of our Gifts, Entertainment AREAS OF FOCUS FOR 2017 & Hospitality Policy, Charitable Donations Policy and Sponsorship Policy.
These policies were amended to reect the structural Oversee the full integration of the risk based due diligence into the changes to the business following the reorganisation and to take supply chain processes.
account of recommendations made following a risk assessment Oversee the full integration of risk based measures designed to manage and review of the effectiveness of the ethics policies.
Whilst the modern slavery risks in the supply chain.
policies were working well in ensuring that all employees comply Oversee the completion of a global risk assessment of bribery and with the high ethical standards expected throughout Aggreko, corruption risks.
we introduced certain improvements to ensure that the policies remain robust and continue to meet the needs of the business.
We provided training to all employees on the revised policies toensure all employees remain alert to potential risks.
ETHICS COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE: IR.
COM INVESTORS Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 91 Ethics training AN OVERVIEW OF OUR COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME We are committed to providing regular training on ethical issues Our compliance programme is coordinated by our full-time to employees in order to ensure that employees remain alert to Headof Compliance with support from the business units and risks and are regularly reminded of the standards expected by thecentral functions.
This approach applies equally to the Board as it does to all employees across the business.
In 2016 we launched a Our compliance programme has a number of elements designed new online ethics training course which has been successfully to ensure that we effectively manage compliance risks: completed by all employees across the business.
This online Ethics Policy training was also supplemented by ethics workshops delivered Every employee receives a copy of the Ethics Policy when they bythe Head of Compliance to the Board and senior management join Aggreko.
We also regularly require employees to complete teams highlighting examples of potential areas of risk and acompliance statement conrming that they have complied discussing how to mitigate these risks.
The Committee received withand will continue to comply withour Ethics Policy and briengs onthe progress of this training throughout the business.
therelevant laws as part of the online ethics training.
Third-party monitoring Training We recognise that it is not just our employees who could be Every employee receives training, which is refreshed every exposed to ethics risks but our third-party sales consultants twoyears via our multi-lingual online ethics compliance training are also exposed to risk.
The conduct of our third-party sales programme.
This online training is supplemented by additional consultants remains one of the most significant risks to Aggreko.
ethics workshops with senior management to ensure they remain The number of third-party sales consultants used by the business alert to risks.
has reduced over the last few years but there is a continued requirement for third parties to help support some areas of the Third-party risks business.
We have risk management measures in place which All of our sales consultants are comprehensively reviewed before require all third-party sales consultants engaged by Aggreko to they are engaged by Aggreko and this exercise is refreshed at least conduct business in compliance with the standards set out in every two years.
Our sales consultants are contractually required to our ethics policy and allow us to monitor compliance with these comply with our Ethics Policy and we require our sales consultants requirements.
We also have controls in place in relation to the to confirm compliance with the policy annually.
We also provide remuneration of sales consultants and we monitor all payments ethics training to our sales consultants to ensure they remain alert to sales consultants.
At the first meeting of each year, we receive to potential risks.
We also have controls in place in relation to the a brieng on all payments made to sales consultants during the remuneration of consultants and we monitor all payments to sales prior year to ensure that the payments were appropriate and consultants to ensure that the remuneration structure does not in line with policy requirements.
We also received a brieng incentivise unethical behaviour.
from thePresident for Rental Solutions and Managing Director for Power Solutions this year with a specic emphasis on As mentioned earlier in the report, we have also recently understanding how they manage the potential risks associated introduced a Supplier Code of Conduct with which we now with the use of third-party sales consultants.
require all new suppliers to confirm compliance.
We recognise that there are also other categories of third-party Gifts, entertainment and hospitality supplier relationships which potentially could also attract risk We have a clear approval process for gifts, entertainment and forthe business.
In response to this risk we introduced a Supplier hospitality offered by, or given to, Aggreko employees.
All gifts, Code of Conduct setting out the standards we require from entertainment and hospitality above a nominal value are recorded all suppliers to Aggreko.
All new suppliers to Aggreko are now centrally and monitored by the Head of Compliance.
required toconrm compliance with this Code of Conduct.
Sponsorship and charitable donations Effectiveness of the compliance programme We have a clear approval process for sponsorships and charitable We are committed to ensuring that our compliance programme donations made by Aggreko.
All sponsorships and charitable remains robust and is in line with best practice.
In 2016 we donations require senior management approval and are recorded instructed an independent maturity assessment on the centrally and monitored by the Head of Compliance.
This assessment has recently been Speaking up completed and provided comfort that the programme We encourage all employees to speak up if they have any isworkingwell to effectively manage risk.
We have an independent compliance hotline operated highlighted some areas where further improvements could by an external agency.
This multi-lingual hotline is available to beintroduced to enhance the compliance programme, all employees and allows any employee who has any concerns whichwewill work to address in 2017. to report them on an anonymous basis.
All reports are followed up, and we regularly analyse the types of reports we receive.
Where appropriate, our Group Internal Audit team is asked toinvestigate the issue and report on the outcome.
