36 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Our overriding principle is to support the people of Britain in their professional and personal lives.
We do this by acting responsibly, giving back and taking a collaborative approach with our stakeholders.
We believe that a business cannot deliver sustainable long-term returns without considering its wider impact on society.
Our customers More customers than ever before bank with Aldermore.
At the end of 2016, we served over 220k customers, an increase of 14% compared to the end of 2015.
Listening to feedback Putting customers first Acting responsibly 1.
We listen to our customers and 2.
We run the business in the interest 3.
We are sensitive to every take on board their feedback of customers customers situation Received an average score of 4.5 Actively manage our cash flow to ensure Consider each customer as an individual out of 5 through our online Ratings & that we can repay our depositors rather than taking a one-size-fits all approach Reviews service Employ a combination of manual and Treat vulnerable customers sensitively, 94% of customers said that they automated underwriting to ensure we providing a flexible, tailored service to would recommend Aldermore are lending responsibly meet their needs Launched our Voice of the Customer Ensure that our customers understand Ethos of treating customers fairly programme to enable us to collect realterms and conditions, including lockunderpinning all of our policies time customer feedback and respond to it in periods and processes What we did during the year and how our approach supported our business: Case study We actively use customer feedback that we receive through our online Ratings & Supporting Reviews service to improve our offering.
During 2016, we received an average rating first time of 4.5 out of 5 and 94% of customers who posted feedback on our website said they would recommend us.
buyers In 2016, we launched our Voice of the Customer programme to enable us to collect customer feedback in real-time.
As part of this programme, we enhanced our methodology for measuring NPS, enabling us to gain a deeper understanding of how our customers and brokers feel about our service and providing insights to help us improve.
Our overall customer NPS increased from 29 in 2015 to 43 in 2016 driven by our competitive interest First time buyers are critical to the effective rates, security and flexible lending criteria.
functioning of the housing market.
During 2016, we helped 1,403 first time % buyers to take their first step onto the 2016 2015 change property ladder.
Customer numbers 222,917 195,061 14 Aldermore has been an enthusiastic Customer Net Promoter Score NPS 43 29 N A supporter of the Governments Help to Average Ratings & Reviews score 4.5 out of 5 4.6 out of 5 N A Buy scheme for several years.
We were one of the first lenders to take part in the Industry awards 13 25 48 scheme and the first to allow borrowers to New lending to small and medium-sized remortgage onto Help to Buy products.
enterprises 1.47bn 1.36bn 8 We were also one of the first organisations to offer the Help to Buy: ISA.
We continue to provide this product, incentivising more people to save and enabling first time buyers to build a deposit towards their first home.
37 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Our people It is thanks to our people that we are able to offer a superior service to our customers.
During 2016 we placed a great deal of focus on our culture, including how we encourage diversity in our workplace, engage our colleagues and drive expertise throughout Aldermore.
Promoting diversity Engaging our people Building expertise 1.
We are committed to diversity in 2.
We include our people in the future 3.
We support the professional the workplace of our business development of our people Committed to equal opportunities for all Launched the Big Conversation, our new Supported future leaders through our our people, irrespective of gender, race, approach to engaging with our people Next Generation Leaders and Aspiring colour, age, disability, sexual orientation Managers programmes Held our 2016 Employee Summit to allow all or marital or civil partner status colleagues to hear from and interact with First round of graduations from our Amongst first banks to sign up to HM our Executive team Project Academy programme, which Treasurys Women in Finance Charter has been designed to improve project Ran our first extended wellbeing management capability across the Bank Maintained our employee gender split programme, encouraging our people to at around 50 50 look after themselves at work and at home What we did during the year and how our approach supported our business: Case study We signed up to HM Treasurys Women in Finance Charter, which aims to increase female Facilitating representation in senior management roles in the financial sector, committing to increasing a Big the proportion of female senior managers at Aldermore to 30% by 2020 and to maintaining our gender split at around 50 50.
Conversation To support our commitment to greater female representation, we launched the Women@ Aldermore network which brings in senior women from outside the business to provide advice and insight to our female employees about how to progress their careers.
In October, we held our 2016 Employee Summit allowing all of our people to come together in one place to network, hear from our Executive team and discuss the future of the Effective two-way communication is vital in Bank.
Following the event, 91% of employees said that they were proud to be part of the engaging our people and we place a great deal Aldermore journey.
of emphasis on listening to employees.
% At our 2016 Employee Summit we launched Employees 2016 2015 change The Big Conversation, our new approach Number of employees 900 816 10 to engaging with our people which saw us gather their views on how we can enable an Number of female employees 408 383 7 improved ongoing connection to Aldermore Percentage of female employees 45% 47% 2ppt and better deliver on our strategic objectives.
Number of senior managers 26 32 19 After the summit we invited over 300 employees to sessions across our offices Number of female senior managers 5 6 17 to provide their ideas and contributions.
Percentage of female senior managers 19% 19% - These sessions were complemented by a Percentage of employees who say business-wide pulse survey, giving every they feel proud to be a part of the employee a chance to contribute.
Aldermore journey 91% 90% 1ppt The Big Conversation has been our most inPercentage of new joiners who came depth discussion with employees ever, giving through our Refer a Friend scheme 23% 18% 5ppt us a deeper understanding of our culture.
Employee numbers as at 31 December 2016 38 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Our communities and environment The SMEs, landlords, homeowners and savers that we support, in turn support the communities in which they live and work.
We understand that we have a responsibility to give back to these communities.
Leading the industry Giving back Reducing our impact 1.
We play our part as a responsible 2.
We give back to the communities 3.
We are committed to reducing our member of the banking community where we operate environmental impact Actively involved with industry bodies Raised 26,739 for the Batten Disease Our total greenhouse gas emissions including the BBA, FLA, ABFA, CML Family Association BDFA, our charity during 2016 were 525tCO2e and IMLA of the year Our total greenhouse gas emissions per employee were 0.59tCO2e Became a member of the Banking Our people spent 525 hours Standards Board volunteering for local charities and other non-profit organisations What we did during the year and how our approach supported our business: Case study In November 2016, Aldermore joined the Banking Standards Board, an independently led Supporting broker body that promotes high standards of behaviour and competence across the UK banking industry.
As a member, we are playing our part in ensuring that the industry is trusted and education viewed as having a positive impact on the communities in which we operate.
A significant part of our fundraising efforts go towards our charity of the year, which is chosen through a Bank-wide employee ballot.
In 2016, our colleagues chose the Batten Disease Family Association BDFA as our charity of the year.
Our charity of the year for 2017 is Sands, the stillbirth and neonatal death charity.
We piloted a volunteering programme with Employee Volunteering, the non-profit organisation.
This saw our employees spending over 525 hours helping charities and other non-profit organisations local to our offices.
Much of our success is down to our % broker partners so we recognise the Communities 2016 2015 change need to support the development of the next generation.
2016 marked the third Amount raised for Charity of the Year 26,739 19,399 38 year of our asset finance broker training Amount matched by Bank through programme, which sees us running for scheme 10,420 9,488 10 workshops for emerging talent at our asset Number of hours volunteered by finance broker partners.
our colleagues 525 Not reported N A Sessions are delivered at Aldermore offices by independent trainers with in-depth % industry knowledge.
In 2016, modules Environment 2016 2015 change included principles of asset finance, Total greenhouse gas GHG emissions tCO e 525 721 27 2 regulation and sales skills.
Total greenhouse gas GHG emissions per During 2016, we held four separate employee tCO e 0.59 0.85 31 courses attended by over 120 brokers.
2 Since launching the programme, around 280 Further details about our greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the Directors Report on page 105. young brokers have benefitted from the workshops which have equipped them with the expertise they need to be successful in their chosen field.
Aldermore has come a long way.
We have built a bank from scratch and delivered impressive growth.
However, the journey towards truly fulfilling our responsibilities to our customers, people and wider stakeholders has only just begun.
While we are judged on our ability to meet our financial objectives, the way in which we achieve these is equally important.
We are heading in the right direction.
We are involving our customers and employees in every step of the journey and building the foundations so that we can continue our strong progress over the coming years.
